Oral Answers to Questions Defence the Secretary of State be ask — Armed Forces Family Housing what step he be take to improve housing for armed force family . what step he be take to improve housing for armed force family . with your indulgence , Mr Speaker , on behalf of those serve in our armed force , I would like to thank you for the parliamentary flag - raise ceremony to mark the start of Armed Forces Week last Monday . I thank hon . member across the House for the support that they give to more than 200 local Armed Forces Day event over the weekend . on housing , we be a Government who be deliver for defence . in January , we buy back 36 , 000 military home into public ownership . in April , we launch a consumer charter to deliver basic housing right and standard . in May , we announce an additional £ 1 . 5 billion for force family home — part of £ 7 billion that we will invest in military accommodation in the next five year . I meet servicemen , servicewoman and veteran in my constituency at event such as Remembrance Day and the recent ve commemoration . we all know the challenge that servicemen and woman have have with housing and its quality in recent year . do my right hon . friend agree that it be this Labour Government who be finally make they proud ? indeed . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his strong work link with veteran in Watford . he be right : as he will recognise , my hon . friend the Minister for Veterans and People recently launch Operation Valour , the first ever UK - wide approach to veteran support , with £ 50 million of funding to establish a new network of Valour - recognise support centre right across the country . this Saturday , hundred will join to mark Falkirk Armed Forces Day in Callendar Park , belatedly . many of those who be currently serve and veteran in Scotland rely on the activity of charitable organisation such as the Ancre Somme Association , which be host the event , and Veterans Housing Scotland , which provide affordable housing for those who have serve . do the Government have any plan to supplement the essential and welcome £ 1 . 5 billion additional investment for service housing with additional support for register charitable organisation that be work tirelessly to safely house veteran ? we do indeed , and we be put in extra fund and great support to deal with the problem of homeless veteran . I be happy to thank and pay tribute to the Ancre Somme Association for its part in a successful Armed Forces Day parade and celebration in Falkirk . I pay tribute to all the volunteer right across the country who make our local Armed Forces Day event possible . we pay tribute to the regular , the reservist , the veteran , the cadet and the armed force family , but it be the volunteer who help we make these event happen . with base become long - term and more predictable , and with most young people want to buy rather than rent their home , what assessment have the Secretary of State make of the success of Forces help to buy ? what plan do he have to extend it ? unfortunately , force help to buy really have not keep pace either with demand or with the success of civilian programme . it be part of the force housing review that I have launch , which I expect to report in the autumn . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that the aspiration of those who serve and who join the service be exactly the same as for every other work person in this country . we should try to make that part of the contract that this nation make with those who will serve in future . housing be not the only issue affect armed force family . when a member of the force move , their family often move with they . my work experience student Amy , who be in the Gallery today , be from an armed force family and attend three primary school . one school provide dedicated support , whereas other have less understanding of the issue that child whose parent be in the force may face . will the Secretary of State work with the Secretary of State for Education to ensure that armed force child receive consistent support at every school that they attend ? we will indeed . Amy ' s experience be typical for many child of force family : regularly move as their parent answer the call and be deploy in different area . we can do well by they . I be in conversation with my right hon . friend the Education Secretary about how we can do well by our force family and force child , but also about how we can do well for the cadet and the opportunity that they offer to all young people . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the recent announcement of funding to improve military housing , but our fantastic service personnel deserve more than short - term fix . this year ' s armed force continuous attitude survey show that one in five personnel plan to leave , and over a quarter of they cite the standard of accommodation as a reason . that should be a wake - up call . will the Government commit to go far and show a real commitment to retention by finally u - turn on their decision to block liberal Democrat proposal to bring all military housing under the decent home standard ? no one could describe the decision to buy back 36 , 000 military family home from private hand as a short - term fix , nobody could describe the consumer charter set out basic housing right and standard as a short - term fix , and no one could describe the housing strategy review we have get go as a short - term fix . the decent home standard be one standard ; I think we can be do well by our armed force family . support veteran what step he be take to support veteran in Hertfordshire . what step he be take to support veteran . what step he be take to ensure that veteran receive adequate support after leave the armed force . first , I would like to recognise Mr Roy Briggs , a world war two veteran who recently pass . those of we on both side of the House salute our great generation . as the Secretary of State say , we recently announce Op Valour , the veteran ' support system , which be underpin by £ 50 million over three year , and I launch the north - west England pilot last week . this be an institutionally resilient system — it be not a stick plaster — that will reform the system at the local , the regional and the national level . when we combine that with the covenant broaden from three Government Departments to 14 just on Saturday , that be a significant increase to both veteran ' and armed force community support . I thank the Minister for his answer and for his kind word about Roy Briggs . his family and I be also grateful for letter that he write to they . I have the privilege of attend his funeral last week . he be a real servant to our country , have fly in many brave mission over Europe . he be part of one of the RAF ' s first ever humanitarian mission when drop essential food over the Netherlands and he also fly many mission in RAF bomber . I know that the Government be do various thing to try to support veteran . could the Minister outline the further step that the Government can take to support organisation that support veteran such as the Royal British Legion as well as small organisation such as the Hemel armed force and veteran breakfast club ? the armed force covenant trust fund be one of the mechanism we use to support the charitable sector , but we must also step back and look holistically at the fact that there be 1 , 730 armed force charity in the UK . Op Valour will help to synthesise that , get more bang for buck and ensure that veteran get the right support where and when they need it . a local charity in my area support woman veteran be recently work with a woman who be rehome in general purpose support accommodation for veteran in Scotland . the accommodation be entirely unsuitable for she as a survivor of sexual violence and lead to she be subject to a further sexual assault by a man who be also house there . will the Minister assure I of his work to ensure appropriate support for woman veteran ? just last week , I visit several different organisation , one of which be Launchpad in Liverpool , which show some example of support housing for veteran . it be not lose on I that female veteran have different requirement , and we need to do more to support they . we will ensure that that be cater for by have a woman ' s section as part of our veteran ' strategy . I welcome the Government ' s investment in support veteran , but as my hon . friend the Member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) mention recently in the House , female veteran be about 10 % less likely to be employ after service than male veteran . what specific step be the Government take to address that imbalance ? I thank the hon . member for that really important question . there be two piece that I would highlight . the first be the armed force career transition partnership , which help individual during the two year prior to their leave the service , and for two year after , to find job . the second be Operation Ascend , which look to partner career opportunity and business — of which we have engage with over 400 — with any veteran or individual leave the armed force , which have engage with 3 , 000 individual . part of our veteran strategy will include that from a woman ' s perspective . we be do everything we can , and over 86 % of veteran who seek help go straight into employment within the first six month . there be 3 , 566 veteran in my constituency , of which 28 % be disabled . many be concerned about the future support available to they . can the Minister assure disabled veteran , not just in South Northamptonshire but across the country , what the Department will do , and that it will not forget they ? that be an exceptionally valid point . just last week , I hold a consultation with the Disability Minister to ensure that veteran charity , which really speak loudly for veteran , and I could highlight any concern to he . that be include within the consultation . defence procurement : sme what step his Department plan to take through the defence industrial strategy to support sme . what step he be take to ensure that sme be able to participate in defence procurement contract . the Government ' s modern industrial strategy , launch last week , announce a 50 % increase in MOD spend with small and medium - sized enterprise to £ 7 . 5 billion a year by 2028 , reverse the downward trend under the previous Government . our new SME hub will help small firm to access well opportunity , and our reform of defence procurement , along with ringfenced innovation fund , will give sme access to the defence dividend . this government ' s increase in defence spending will provide job and growth across the UK . Basingstoke be home to some fantastic defence sme , include Nightball Technologies and Bertin Exensor , but one issue that have be raise with I be that government procurement agency can not specify UK sovereign tech or sole - source contract , even where UK capability exist . that result in lengthy competitive tender , where there be a high risk that end user do not get the capability that they need and equipment be buy from foreign supplier . will the Minister meet with I and firm from Basingstoke to discuss how we can prioritise UK defence sme over foreign supplier , especially where UK sovereign tech exist ? my hon . friend make an interesting point . there be some flexibility under our procurement rule to specify national security ground upon which to make a decision . half our spend be already through sole - source contract . I be of course happy to meet he and his sme . we be deliver for defence by promote new procurement model that be easy for small firm to access , and our SME hub will engage directly with sme to help they to access defence supply chain . in my constituency of North Somerset , many small and medium - sized enterprise be spring up to support our country ' s rearmament effort . in Nailsea , one such company , 1415 Industries , be recently block from open a business bank account due to blanket prohibition and excessive delay by retail bank , hinder its ability to organise seed funding and bid for procurement contract . will the Minister meet with I to discuss the case of 1415 Industries and the wide problem relate to financial institution and their interaction with defence sme that the case highlight ? I recognise my hon . friend ' s point , and I will of course meet with he and his sme . over the last six month , the Defence Secretary and I have convene stakeholder from industry and finance to discuss this issue and make it clear that defence be an ethical sector that they should support . the strategic defence review commit we to develop a dedicated financial service sector strategy , which we will aim to publish in spring 2026 . that should give we a further opportunity to make sure that the finance industry know what a good investment defence can be . our UK defence industry can have few well ambassador around the world than our Red Arrows . as the Hawk aircraft come to an end , will the Minister look closely at the British - design modular aircraft be develop by Aeralis , because it would support sme right across our country , include by bring around 600 job to StandardAero in Gosport and about 1 , 000 to the south Hampshire area ? surely that would be a much well way to support our national sme than opt for the italian - russian Yak - 130 aircraft , which the MOD be rumour to prefer . I know Aeralis well ; I visit it when I be in opposition , as I know the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) have do , and I have speak to its representative since . of course , an open competition will be hold for the new aircraft to deliver advanced jet training and for an aircraft for the RAF aerobatic team , to ensure value for money and positive UK benefit , and I hope that Aeralis will apply for that competition . it will have a very good chance if its product be up to scratch . I thank the Minister for her answer . she be a regular visitor to Northern Ireland and support the sme there , so when it come to the defence industrial strategy to support sme , could she update the House , and myself in particular , on what she and the Government be do to help sme in Northern Ireland to increase job and also increase contract ? the hon . Gentleman be right to say that I have visit Northern Ireland and its defence sector on a number of occasion , and I hope to return and do so again . the increase in spend that be announce last Monday on the modern industrial strategy for our sme to take advantage of — an increase of 50 % up to £ 7 . 5 billion a year — should give opportunity for some of the innovative company in Northern Ireland to take advantage of the available money . when our SME hub get up and run , it will be available to assist small firm in understand how good to get access to some of the opportunity that that will bring . defence Sector Exports what step he be take to support defence sector export . in order to deliver for defence and make defence manufacture an engine for growth , we must improve our export performance . potential customer want a consistent government - to - government offer , so as part of defence reform , a new national armament director and defence export office will support defence export campaign , and responsibility for the promotion of defence export will be transfer to the Ministry of Defence . it be welcome news that MOD be commit to the establishment of a defence export office . will the Minister set out what this will mean at home for job in constituency such as mine in Stoke - on - Trent Central , where our proud manufacturing company stand ready to support UK defence and security ? it will mean a coherent specialist approach to government - to - government agreement on sale of our capability be base in the MOD , which have expertise in those capability . this be go to mean extra job and growth , and that job can continue in the UK beyond the delivery of our own domestic order because there will be export order to fulfil . that should reap a defence dividend across the nation and region of the UK as our manufacturing job continue to deliver for defence . Ametek , a defence manufacturer in my constituency , have report to I that the process of get a defence export licence have almost grind to a halt in the past 12 month . could the Ministry of Defence send someone sufficiently threaten round to the Department for Business and Trade — perhaps the Veterans Minister — to persuade it to get a grip of its process and speed everything up ? I be sure that we can make representation to that Department to ensure that there be no unnecessary delay in application for export be grant , where that be appropriate . Ukraine : Military Support what recent discussion he have have with ally on military support for Ukraine . at last week ' s NATO summit , I meet Defence Ministers , include Ukrainian Defence Minister Umerov , about surge support into Ukraine , with the UK also announce last week that hundred more advanced short range air - to - air missile — ASRAAM — would be deliver to Ukraine , start in the next few week . last Monday , I join the Prime Minister in host President Zelensky in no . 10 , where we discuss the ongoing detailed planning for the coalition of the willing , and I be proud to say that , three and a half year into Putin ' s illegal invasion , this House and this country remain united for Ukraine . yesterday , alarm report indicate that Russia have launch its large air attack on Ukraine since the war begin , kill at least six people and injure many more . clearly , regardless of his claim , Putin be not ready for peace . give Russia ' s continued aggression , what step be the Government take alongside NATO ally to increase pressure on Russia to agree to an unconditional ceasefire ? my hon . friend be right . last night ' s attack be a reminder of just how fierce the russian onslaught on Ukraine be , but it be also a reminder that Putin have fail in his strategic ambition . three and a half year into this campaign , he have pass the gruesome milestone of 1 million russian casualty on the battlefield , and he be fail to take the territory that he think would fall to he . I be proud that the UK have step up with leadership on Ukraine — with the coalition of the willing alongside the French and by chair the Ukraine defence contact group alongside the Germans — and that we will spend more than £ 4 . 5 billion this year on UK military aid to Ukraine , which be the high ever level . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I associate myself with the Secretary of State ' s comment on those terrible attack . it should be a source of pride that some of the good drone and counter - drone tech that we have supply to Ukraine have be make by british sme . the problem be that Labour ' s procurement freeze mean that almost none of it have be buy in parallel for our own armed force . in this week of Labour u - turn , will the Secretary of State consider another one : namely , scrap the Government ' s crazy £ 30 billion Chagos deal and instead spend the money on rapidly supply drone for the British Army , so that it can train for war as it be be fight today in Ukraine ? that be a bit of a " bucket " question . on drone , we be increase tenfold the number of british drone that we will supply to Ukraine this year . we be also step up the lesson we be learn from work with Ukraine on the development of its technology — battlefield - harden and combat - ready — so that we can supply our own force with increase number of drone as part of the strategic defence review ' s vision for the way that we transform our force in the year ahead . Operation banner : Legal Protection for Veterans what discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland on the adequacy of legal protection for veteran who serve in Operation Banner . the veteran who serve under Op Banner serve to protect civilian life and secure the peace in Northern Ireland . I share the right hon . Gentleman ' s deep concern that many may now be catch up in investigation or litigation , and I be determined that we protect they far . I be work closely with the Northern Ireland Secretary , as be our official , to ensure that we discharge our duty to the veteran as part of the necessary plan to repeal and replace the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . during Operation Banner , every single time a paramilitary be kill by a british soldier , it be subject to judicial investigation . the Director of Public Prosecutions go through the evidence at the time , interview people , look at the planning document and be able to talk to people contemporaneously while they could still remember it . it be not a rubber stamp ; it be rigorous , as be prove by the fact that , where necessary , it lead to prosecution . what be happen now be double jeopardy . worse still , it be double jeopardy under new rule but with no new evidence . indeed , there be a risk of lose evidence and lose memory , give the passage of time . I have hear what the Secretary of State have say , but will he commit to ensure that soldier who be subject to review at the time will not be subject to further risk of prosecution under the Government ' s replacement for the legacy Act ? any incoming Government would have to repeal the legacy Act . it be unlawful legislation — it have be reject by domestic court , and reject by community across Northern Ireland , and it be simply wrong for anyone to suggest otherwise . we owe it to those affect by the trouble , whom the right hon . Gentleman speak about , include our armed force community and veteran , to be honest about the unworkability of that legacy Act and to get this legislation right . that be exactly what the Northern Ireland Secretary and I be work together to ensure we can do , take full account of all the interested party , in particular those veteran and armed force community that the right hon . Gentleman speak about . I call the shadow Minister . accord to the 2021 census , there be more than 2 million veteran live in Great Britain . clearly , some of they have be busy lately : their parliamentary petition entitle " Protect Northern Ireland Veterans from Prosecutions " , with support from the Daily Mail , the Express and other , now have more than 160 , 000 signature and will be debate in Parliament on 14 July . which Minister will respond to that debate , so that we can ask they why the Government ' s current remedial order be draft to help the like of Gerry Adams sue the british taxpayer while throw our veteran to the wolf ? we welcome the petition , and we certainly welcome the parliamentary debate — it be quite proper that Parliament debate these issue . the right hon . Gentleman ' s legacy Act offer false and undeliverable promise to the veteran of Northern Ireland . the last Government be warn that it would be unlawful and incompatible with the Windsor framework . even the chief commissioner of the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery say that the Act have obvious problem , and that element of it be dead in the water from the beginning . we be now fix that flawed and fail legislation , and we will do so in a way that honour our duty towards those veteran . the Government could have appeal to the Supreme Court on this but deliberately do not . I do not doubt the Secretary of State ' s personal sincerity . however , at Prime Minister ' s question on 15 January , the Prime Minister promise veteran : " we be work on a draft remedial order and replacement legislation , and we will look at every conceivable way to prevent these type of case from claim damage — it be important that I say that on the record . " — [ Official Report , 15 January 2025 ; Vol . 760 , c . 324 . ] why then , despite the PM ' s solemn promise , be the order still unchanged ? surely he be not expect to order his own mp , many of whom represent red wall seat from which those veteran be originally recruit , through the Aye Lobby just to do Gerry Adams a favour ? he be not go to do that , be he ? the Prime Minister be right then and he be right now . I be work with the Northern Ireland Secretary to repeal and replace the legacy Act . we will honour the Prime Minister ' s undertake to this House and do right by the duty that this nation hold to those veteran who serve for more than 38 year during the trouble in Northern Ireland . Red Arrows what step he be take to maintain the capability of the Red Arrows . the strategic defence review recommend that the Hawk t1 and T2 be replace with a cost - effective advanced jet trainer . the future platform of the Royal Air Force aerobatic team be be consider at the same time , and a Royal Air Force programme team be be establish to deliver that capability . the TSR - 2 aircraft be a world beater . unfortunately , the only thing that it could not beat in a dog fight be a Labour Government , who know the cost of everything and the value of nothing . will the Minister assure I that we have learn the lesson of TSR - 2 , and that we will look at the replacement for the Hawk in the light of press a British - design and manufacture aircraft that can sell Britain abroad ? the conservative party set 2030 as the Hawk t1 ' s out - of - service date in its 2015 strategic defence and security review , and it then do precisely nothing to achieve a replacement in the nine year that follow , so I be disinclined to take lesson from the hon . Gentleman ' s party on how to replace the Hawk . I assure he that the competition will welcome any bid from UK - base supplier . shipbuilding Supply Line what step he be take to ensure an " always on " approach to the shipbuilding supply line . as outline in the strategic defence review and in the UK ' s modern industrial strategy , the Government be commit to support an " always on " shipbuilding industry by leverage our buying power through public procurement and seek to export our capability to friendly nation . as the Minister say , the SDR speak of the need for an " always on " supply of shipbuilding , with the Royal Navy continue to move towards a more powerful but cheap and simple fleet . the Minister have visit my constituency and see the construction of the Type 31 frigate by Babcock at Rosyth , with the first ship , HMS Venturer , recently float off . other ship of the initial five order by the Royal Navy be progress well . when can we expect to see announcement to guarantee the continue always - on supply of shipbuilding , and will she give an update on the need for more Type 31 frigate for the Royal Navy to reflect the flexibility of that platform , as well as the low cost and fast production achieve by the incredible workforce at Rosyth in my constituency ? I recognise the benefit that the construction of Type 31 frigate have bring to Rosyth , and I have personally engage with international partner to try to secure future order . in addition to any order that we ourselves may have , export that type of capability to our ally and friend be a sensible way of ensure that we can keep production go at Rosyth . Defence Spending : Cross - party Talks if he will make an assessment of the potential merit of hold cross - party talk on increase defence spending to 3 % of gdp by 2030 . at last week ' s NATO summit all 32 nation sign up to a new defence investment pledge of 5 % of gdp by 2035 , include , for the first time , spend on national security , national resilience and homeland security . that build on this Government ' s £ 5 billion boost to defence this year , the funded and cost plan to hit 2 . 5 % of gdp in two year ' time , and our ambition to hit 3 % in the next Parliament . there be a great deal of experience across these Benches , and most of we recognise the imminence of the need to hit 3 % . my expertise be in force protection , and I know , among other thing , that Brize Norton can not draw support from the Military Provost Guard Service under the land top level budget , such as at nearby Dalton barrack and South Cerney . that be more acute still at RAF Lossiemouth . will the Minister meet I to discuss the command structure of the MPGS and bring our experience to the table to find that 3 % of GDP imminently ? my hon . friend the Minister for the Armed Forces will be happy to meet the hon . gentleman — he would be a much well person to meet than I on this matter . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . UK defence company need certainty from the Government in order to invest and plan with confidence . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s recent effort at the G7 and NATO summit , and his commitment to spend 5 % of gdp on defence by 2035 , include 1 . 5 % on defence and security - relate investment . can the Secretary of State clarify how exactly that 1 . 5 % will be measure ? will it involve new project and investment , or will it merely be a reclassification of exist project ? crucially , how can industry , public body and other stakeholder contribute so that they can help to achieve that goal ? my hon . friend ask characteristically search question , so let I send he the NATO criterion that be publish alongside the pledge last week , and let he and his Committee , when they interrogate I on Wednesday afternoon , pursue any further question that they might have . there be member on the Government Front Bench who know a thing or two about leadership — I can say that with confidence , because the Prime Minister be not in that place . the Government have a command majority and do not need the support of member from any other Benches to hit 3 % of gdp , and far , if only the leadership of the Labour party could get its own Members of Parliament through the Division Lobby . give that the Prime Minister show no ability to do that with the change to welfare , how will he ensure that 3 % be spend on defence in a timely manner ? the Conservatives " hollow out and underfunde " defence for 14 year — those be not my word , but those of the right hon . Gentleman ' s former Cabinet colleague , Ben Wallace . this year there have be a £ 5 billion boost in defence spending , but in his government ' s first year , in 2010 , there be a £ 2 billion cut in defence . just as we boost defence spending this year , we will increase it to 2 . 5 % by 2027 , which be three year early than the right hon . Gentleman argue for . we have show exactly how we will fund that . we have take the decision — which he do not take — to switch funding from overseas development aid into defence , and just as we have show where the money be come from in this Parliament , in the next Parliament we will do the same . I , too , welcome the commitment to get to 5 % of gdp on defence spending by 2035 . it be imperative that the increase in defence spending mean that funding be get to those on the cutting edge of defence innovation . cody technology park in Farnborough be already home to world - class defence innovation , with a wide range of small and medium - sized enterprise work there , alongside QinetiQ , and it be where DragonFire have just be develop . what role do the Minister see for exist place such as Cody , in deliver our defence industrial strategy ? will she meet I to discuss whether Cody could be the home for the new defence SME hub ? I see a huge role . I hope that my hon . friend take the commitment that the Chancellor and I make , alongside the spring statement , to set a new target for direct defence investment in sme , as a sign of that commitment . while I be in the business of commit my ministerial colleague to meeting , I know that my right hon . friend the Minister for Defence Procurement and Industry would be only too happy to meet she and to draw on her expertise as part of the development of our defence industrial strategy . I call the shadow Minister . on defence spending , be not the truth that Labour ' s promise to reach 3 % of gdp , let alone 3 . 5 % or 5 % , be just smoke and mirror , because there be no actual plan to pay for it ? how can the Government claim that they will properly invest in our defence and keep the country safe when they can not even deliver the limited saving they have promise on welfare ? so I ask the Secretary of State : where be the money come from ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman to the Dispatch Box and to the Conservative Front Bench team , alongside his two very distinguished colleague , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) and the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) . I gently say to he that , since the election , his colleague the shadow Defence Secretary argue 13 time for 2 . 5 % by 2030 . he only change his tune after February , when the Prime Minister show how it be go to be fund and say that we would do it three year early , in 2027 . we have show how we will raise the extra funding for this record increase in investment in defence since the end of the cold war . we have show exactly how it be cost and exactly how it will be fund in this Parliament , and in the next Parliament we will do the same . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Government ' s commitment to reach 5 % on GDP on defence spending be the right decision . as we face the once - in - a - generation threat from Russia , it be vital that we regenerate our armed force after year of decline under the Conservatives . however , we need more urgency . the International Institute for Strategic Studies warn that if there be a ceasefire in Ukraine , Russia could " pose a significant military challenge to NATO ally … as early as 2027 . " in order to strengthen our defence , we need to give people well incentive to join the armed force . will the Minister consider accelerate recruitment by back the liberal Democrat proposal for a £ 10 , 000 sign bonus to attract new recruit ? we be accelerate recruitment . we be deal with the deep - seat and long - run failure in recruitment , because the previous Government , over 14 year , set and then fail to meet their own recruitment target . we be deal with the recruitment and retention crisis in the armed force . I be proud to say that last year we give the armed force the big pay rise for over 20 year ; that this year there will be another inflation - bust pay rise ; and that we be start to provide well pay , well kit , well housing and well support for force family — the sort of thing that will keep those valuable and value member of the armed force serve our country and protect we all . UK - Mauritius Chagos Agreement what estimate he have make of the cost to his Department of the UK - Mauritius agreement concern the Chagos archipelago , include Diego Garcia . as the Defence Secretary have say , the cost of the agreement represent less than 0 . 2 % of the annual MOD budget . this have secure unrestricted access to and use of the base on Diego Garcia , control over movement of all person and good on the base , and control of all communication and electronic system . it be a good deal . I do not know that I agree with the Minister that this be a good deal , although I be curious about the £ 30 billion . do it count towards the new NATO target of 3 . 5 % , or the additional 1 . 5 % on top of that ? as we have to inform the Mauritian Government before we do anything particularly useful from that base , should that cost actually be count in the defence number at all ? let I squash the hon . Gentleman ' s last comment , which be wrong : we do not have to inform Mauritius before take any military action . under the treaty , we have to provide notification after the event . I have explain this 13 time in write answer to member on the Conservative Front Bench , but I be afraid that they still do not get it . that underline why they could not do a deal after 11 round of negotiation , whereas this government do it after two round , secure the future of that vital base for UK and US operation . be it not the case that our close ally — the United States , Australia , Canada , New Zealand and even India — have all welcome this deal , precisely because they recognise the irreplaceable role of Diego Garcia in global security ? what do the Minister think be go on with the Opposition , who think they know more about global security than the security service , the White House and the Pentagon ? this be important , because the future of Diego Garcia be absolutely vital . have accept the principle that sovereignty could be secure only by a negotiate settlement — that be the decision take by the last government — it be right that we secure a deal , and right that we protect the base for operation for more than 100 year . the deal be good value for the UK taxpayer , because it secure the most valuable piece of military real estate on the planet , and keep it under UK control for the next century and beyond . UK Military Bases : security what step he be take to increase security at military basis in the UK . follow the disgraceful criminal vandalism that we see at RAF Brize Norton , we immediately implement a series of enhanced security measure at that air base and at other defence site to ensure the safety of personnel , asset and operation . the strategic defence review highlight Brize Norton as be in need of investment after the hollowing out of our armed force over the previous 14 year . we have direct that a wide review be carry out at pace , to assess and ensure protective security at all defence site . phase 1 of that review be complete this weekend , and I will make far , wide announcement in due course . to what extent be the Ministry of Defence work with other Government agency to ensure a join - up response to emerge threat to military equipment and infrastructure ? counter - terrorism police be still investigate the incident at RAF Brize Norton , and it be right that we allow they the space to complete that investigation . the wide review look at security at not just RAF Brize Norton , but all defence site . we be look with colleague across Government at what investment be need , and at how we can work with other to secure the safety of site to ensure that the UK maintain operational security for all its asset . almost by definition , RAF site have to have very long perimeter fence , so it be understandable that they could be overcome at one point or another . why be they apparently not fit with sensor , at least , so that any intrusion would have sound the alarm ? I do not want to pre - empt the finding of all the review , but the right hon . Gentleman be right that our air basis tend to cover a large area . the perimeter fence we inherit on many of our air basis be not design to keep everyone out with large thing , but to be a perimeter defence . in the ongoing security work , we be look at how technological solution and change in guard might contribute to enhanced security , give the increase threat that we face . Autonomous Weapons Systems what assessment he have make of the adequacy of regulation on the use of autonomous weapon system . the strategic defence review set out that the UK will harness new technology through dynamic network of crewed , uncrewed and autonomous system . we will always comply with the relevant regulatory framework and international humanitarian law . I can tell my hon . friend that IHL compliance be absolutely essential as we look to use more artificial intelligence enable weapon system in the future . the strategic defence review rightly emphasise the importance of autonomous weapon system in augment the UK ' s defence capability , but it also note : " the UK ' s competitor be unlikely to adhere to common ethical standard in develop and use " those technology . what specific measure be the Government take to help prevent and mitigate the potential harm of autonomous capability , both in the UK and abroad ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : we maintain responsible AI system in the face of adversary perhaps use AI in malign way . the UK will adhere to our legal obligation and the value of the society that we serve . through the UN and other process , we be actively engage in international dialogue on responsible AI , lethal autonomy and related strategic challenge , but all our activity will be in compliance with international humanitarian law . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . last week , 32 NATO nation come together at the summit in the Hague , unite in collective deterrence and in our collective defence of the Euro - Atlantic area . I can report to the House that NATO be now big , strong and more lethal than before . we sign a new defence investment pledge of 5 % of gdp by 2035 , with new capability commitment from each nation . it be a good day for NATO , a good day for british job , and a bad day for Putin . everyone at the summit agree that Iran should never have nuclear weapon . we all want the ceasefire between Israel and Iran to hold , and we will work to support it . finally , we also discuss it create a new opportunity for a ceasefire in Gaza , which would be a vital step on the path to peace . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for his response . now that the Prime Minister have make a cast - iron commitment to meet NATO ' s 5 % defence spending target , will the Secretary of State make a similarly welcome commitment to cross - party talk to establish a credible and durable path towards meet that goal ahead of NATO ' s 2029 capability review ? I welcome the Liberal Democrats ’ support for the commitment we have make at NATO ; the Leader of the opposition be unable to offer that support at Prime Minister ' s question last week . if the hon . Gentleman have idea about how we should fund that commitment in the next Parliament , I would be perfectly happy to hear they . nothing matter more than home , so I welcome the huge progress that have be make on force housing over the past 12 month , especially for force family . do the Minister agree that the opposition ' s half - bake reprivatisation plan would be a huge threat to those in the armed force and their family ? that be a really valid point . the trouble be that the plan risk the deal we have with Annington . it would outsource all the housing , and take control away from the Government , the Ministry of Defence and the military family who would be live in that housing . our housing strategy will come in after the summer , and it will be well think through and deliver . I call the shadow Secretary of State . do the Secretary of State support the action take by the United States to bomb iranian nuclear facility ? as I say in my response to the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) , we be absolutely determined that Iran should never have a nuclear weapon . we have be work with ally , on a diplomatic path . now that a ceasefire be in place , the mind of all NATO leader , include President Trump , be on put our weight behind that diplomatic path . that be the way towards ensure a sustainable and verifiable end to any nuclear programme . it be extraordinary that a british Secretary of State for Defence be unable to give his explicit support to the military action of our close ally , the United States . be the real reason why Labour can not back US military action against Iran not the same as the reason why it will not u - turn on Chagos or on Northern Ireland veteran — that when it come to choose between legal theory and the national interest , this Prime Minister be a lawyer , not a leader ? absolute rubbish ! the UK and the US be the very close of defence , intelligence and national security partner . the US be strongly behind the deal we have do on Diego Garcia , because it know that that deal secure the operational sovereignty there of the UK and the US for the next 100 year and beyond . ITP Aero support over 700 job in Hucknall in my constituency . I recently go to visit the site with representative from Unite to meet those highly skilled worker , who be essential not only in support our defence sector , but for protect our national security . what be this Government do to ensure that work do under future contract be complete in the UK , by UK worker ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the vital role of itp Aero on some of our most important defence platform , not least Typhoon and the a400 M . the strategic defence review make it clear that we will back British - base business where possible , and ITP Aero be already help to show that defence be an engine for growth in her community . in response to my write parliamentary question , the Minister for the Armed Forces say that the Ministry of Defence assess support to foreign force on " a case - by - case basis . UK training course promote british value , include human right … and … international humanitarian law . " how do that response square with our continued support of Israel ' s war crime in Gaza ? will dual national serve in the Israel Defence Forces be hold accountable ? all action of the UK Government be in compliance with international humanitarian law . we want to see an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . we have few than five personnel from Israel on non - combat academic course currently , but we keep all our training under review . minister will be aware of the recent launch of XV Excalibur in the south of England . it be an autonomous submarine vehicle that be the future of naval capability . what other investment be be make , under the strategic defence review , in autonomous vehicle , unmanned submarine technology , and glider technology ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that . Excalibur will be an incredible autonomous asset . the strategic defence review set out that crew , uncrewed and autonomous system will be standard across our armed force , and at the heart of the review be investment in the people who will be manufacture and stand behind those system . that be why , when the defence investment plan come out later this year , there will be more opportunity for small and medium - sized enterprise , prime and business right across the country to invest in our uncrewed and autonomous future in a hybrid military . last week , I ask the Chief Secretary to the Treasury what happen to the £ 4 billion earmark for autonomous system , include in Plymouth . that line be in the Chancellor ' s spend review speech , but not deliver on the day . the Chief Secretary do not know . can the Secretary of State confirm that this funding exist , and will he accept an invitation to Turnchapel Wharf , where exciting marine autonomy be be develop ? I can confirm that the £ 4 billion be fund . I can confirm that the investment in autonomous and drone technology in this Parliament be double what be plan before the election . I can confirm that we will spend and invest that money it in this Parliament . I always like come to Plymouth ; my hon . friend the Minister for the Armed Forces drag I down there frequently . last week ' s historic NATO summit conclude with member lay the foundation for a strong united NATO . with the change nature of the threat we face , do the Secretary of State agree that work even more closely with our NATO ally be crucial to keep the UK secure at home and strong abroad ? I do indeed . NATO be big , strong and more lethal than ever before . it be our guarantee that we will never fight alone . that be why the lead contribution that Britain make to NATO deterrence and defence be a big part of keep we safe for the future . do the Government know if the US Government be still provide technical military intelligence support , such as electronic or imagery intelligence for Ukraine ? if that be cut off by President Trump , would the Americans effectively restrict our british military technical intelligence support to Ukraine ? the hon . Member will understand that we can not talk about share military intelligence on the Floor of the House , but as he and I have an interest in this , I would be happy to have a conversation with he . North Staffordshire Tri Service and Veterans Support Centre do a wonderful job support veteran across Stoke - on - Trent , but all too often , it find that the military covenant be not work for they . in Stoke - on - Trent in particular , it seem to be fail . what action be this Government take to ensure that the covenant be worth the paper it be print on in city like mine ? I highlight that the Prime Minister have make an announcement about broaden responsibility for the covenant , and the duty of care that it will deliver , from three Government Departments to 14 . it will now be for other Departments to ensure that the duty be adhere to across all local council . some 3 , 537 of my constituent in South Norfolk be veteran . be a veteran in a rural community be very different from be one in an urban community . what action be the Government take to ensure that my veteran have the support they need ? as I have mention several time today , the Valour programme will accommodate that . it will not be a service that be a blueprint for everyone , but we will take the geographical difference into account and ensure that it be fit for purpose so that our veteran be give the deal that they deserve . the strategic defence review , publish this month , clearly state : " the foundation of the UK ' s approach to deterrence remain a minimum , credible , independent UK nuclear deterrent , assign to the defence of NATO … the UK ' s nuclear weapon be operationally independent . " somehow , in the last 29 day , the UK Government have decide that they no long see their Trident nuclear missile as a minimum credible deterrent . why be that major change in policy not announce in the SDR ? the Government have make it very clear that our support for our independent nuclear deterrent be solid and be not change . we be invest in new submarine , we be invest in the base in Faslane , we be invest in new nuclear reactor in Derby , and we be back the people who keep our country safe with that guarantor of our security , the nuclear deterrent . since 14 June , an F - 35B from the Prince of Wales carrier strike group have be strand on the runway at the Thiruvananthapuram civilian airport in India . what step be the Government take to recover the plane , how much long will that take , and how will the Government ensure the security of protect technology on the jet while it be in the hangar and out of view ? we continue to work with our indian friend who provide first - class support when the F - 35B be unable to return to the Prince of Wales when on a flight mission , and I be certain that the security of the jet be in good hand because Royal Air Force crew be with it at all time . give that as many as 35 , 000 ukrainian child be still miss and be probably be hold in occupy territory or in Russia , will the Minister assure we that the Government be not only take action to help injure soldier in Ukraine back on to the frontline , but do all that they can to support the reunion of ukrainian child with their family ? we be proud to be invest in Operation Renovator , our contribution to help injure ukrainian soldier to recover and return to the fight to guarantee the safety of their nation , and we will continue to support that operation and our ukrainian friend for as long as it take . infantry regiment cite difficulty in recruit in their traditional community and recruitment ground . far to the exchange between the Secretary of State and the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , may I ask what more can be do to encourage , specifically , young british man to join the Army ? last year 165 , 000 young people try to join the British Army . we hire 9 , 500 of they , but 84 % leave because the process be too long . we have a superb " attract feature " , but we need to be well at converting , and we be make progress in that regard , although there be more to be do . I be happy to meet the right hon . Gentleman if he have any idea that might support that . sadly , we have all see the devastation cause by modern missile . Germany be prepare to receive the Arrow 3 missile defence system , order just two year ago , which can intercept intercontinental missile at 2 , 500 km . what plan have the Government to equip this country similarly ? one of the recommendation in the strategic defence review be that we develop an integrated air and missile defence system in this country . we must take our homeland security more seriously than we have in the past , and that be exactly what we will do . during our last session of Defence question , I ask the Secretary of State to join I in wish a happy forthcoming birthday to Eastbourne ' s last survive war veteran , Eric Deach , who be shortly to turn 100 . unfortunately , tomorrow I shall be a pallbearer at his funeral ; he do not make it . will the Secretary of State , ahead of that funeral , join I in pay one final tribute to Eric for his service and everything he do to fight for our country ? hear , hear . it need no word ; the hon . Gentleman have hear the response of the House . we pay tribute to Mr Deach , and offer our deep sympathy to his family , his friend and his comrade , and our thought will be with the hon . Gentleman tomorrow as he bear that coffin into the crematorium or the church for Mr Deach ' s final journey . will the Government raise with the F - 35 joint program office or the joint executive steering board the human right breach and the possibility of suspend Israel ' s access while maintain supply to other customer ? we always keep in mind our obligation under international law , and we obviously discuss matter that might pertain to it among the F - 35 nation . on Saturday , I have the pleasure of welcome the Secretary of State to my home town of Cleethorpes , where we witness the national Armed Forces Day event . early , he refer to the volunteer who make this possible . my constituent Alex Baxter , whom he meet on Saturday , have mastermind the Armed Forces Day event in Cleethorpes for many year . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate Alex and his team on a splendid event ? I have one of the good day in this job so far with the hon . Gentleman and my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) in his home town of Cleethorpes — they be there together . behind the event be Alex Baxter , the absolutely formidable figure who organise the armed force major event team that stage the Cleethorpes Armed Forces Day . some 300 , 000 people be expect over the weekend . it be a great boost to our armed force , to veteran and to the people of Cleethorpes . cadet be a wonderful source of social mobility in our country , and play a key role in last weekend ' s Armed Forces Day celebration . I want to recognise my brilliant local air cadet : 12f Walthamstow and Leyton squadron , and 241 Wanstead and Woodford squadron . will the Minister set out the Government ' s approach to increase the size of cadet force in community like mine so that everyone can benefit from the opportunity that cadet have to offer ? I thank my hon . friend for all his support for cadet force and the armed force . it would be remiss of I not to say that cadet force provide an excellent social mobility platform for young child across the country by give they hope , priority and principle , and push they to be determine . this Government have commit to raise the cadet force by 30 % , and to give more child across the country well opportunity . it be a pleasure to be the president of Chorley cadet . Welfare Reform with permission , I will make a statement on the Government ' s welfare reform . this government believe in equality and social justice , and we be determined to build a fairer society in which everyone have the chance to fulfil their potential and achieve their ambition , no matter where they be bear or what their parent do . we know , as all Labour government have know , that the only way of unlock the potential of individual , and of our country as a whole , be to collectively provide real opportunity and real support . I be proud of the step that this Government have already take to deliver on our promise of a well future for all . [ interruption . ] we be create more good job in every part of the country , include through our modern industrial strategy and plan for clean energy . we be — [ interruption . ] order . I say to those on the Opposition Front Bench that the statement have only just start . you might not be interested , but I know my constituent be . I expect the same courtesy when you speak . we be invest in our vital transport infrastructure and in skill , and get the NHS back on its foot . our landmark Employment Rights Bill will improve the quality of work , and our increase in the national minimum wage be help make work pay . but alongside these vital step , we need to reform the welfare state . the principle set out in our " pathway to work " Green Paper be root in value that I know many mps share : that those who can work must work , but often need proper support to do so ; that those who can never work must be protect ; and that the welfare state must be fair both for those who need support and for taxpayer , so that it be sustainable for generation to come . but the system we inherit from the conservative party be fail on all those front . it incentivise people to define themselves as incapable of work just to be able to afford to live . it then write they off , and deny they any help or support . the result be 2 . 8 million of our fellow citizen now out of work due to long - term sickness , and almost 1 million young people not in education , employment or training , which be a staggering one in eight of all our young people . the future sustainability of the system have also be put at risk , with the number of people on personal independence payment set to more than double this decade to over 4 million , with award increase at twice the rate of increase in the prevalence of disabled people in our society , add 1 , 000 new PIP award every single day . I know that Government Members have welcome many aspect of our reform : our plan to bring in the first ever sustain , above - inflation rise to the universal credit standard allowance — the first permanent , real - term increase in the headline rate of out - of - work benefit since the 1970 — which be an historic change in the direction of public policy ; the big ever investment in employment support for sick and disabled people , quadruple what we inherit from the Tories to £ 1 billion a year ; our plan to ensure that people with severe , lifelong health condition will never be reassess , remove all the unnecessary and unacceptable anxiety this bring ; and our plan to legislate for a right to try , guarantee that try work in and of itself will never lead to a benefit reassessment and give people the confidence to take the plunge and try work , which many organisation have call for for year . however , there have also be real concern about our initial proposal . we have listen carefully , and we be make positive change as a result . first and foremost , many member of the House , alongside disabled people and their organisation , have be very concerned about require exist claimant to score a minimum of four point on at least one activity to be eligible for the daily living component of PIP when they be reassess after November 2026 . they have also be concern that the pace of change be too fast . I fully understand that even though nine out of 10 people claim PIP when the change come in would be unaffected by the end of this Parliament , this have cause deep and widespread anxiety among exist claimant , because they rely on the income from PIP for so many different aspect of their life . so we will now ensure that the new four - point requirement will apply only to new claim from November 2026 . this mean that no exist claimant will lose PIP because of the change bring forward in the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill , and exist claimant of passporte benefit such as carer ' s allowance will continue to get they , too . some people have say they be concerned that this will create a two - tier system , but I say to the House , include Conservative Members , that our benefit system often protect exist claimant from new rate or new rule , because life have be build around that support and it be often very hard for people to adjust . for example , some people still receive the severe disablement allowance , which be close to new claim in 2001 . when Labour introduce the local housing allowance in 2008 , exist claimant stay on the old , high rate of housing benefit , and many people be still on disability living allowance , which PIP replace in 2013 . we believe that protect exist claimant , while begin to focus PIP on those with high need for new claimant , strike the right and fair balance . the second important question raise by member be about see more detail of our wide review of the PIP assessment before be ask to vote on the change in the Bill . many mp also want to know that the view and voice of disabled people will be hear at the heart of our plan . so we have today publish the term of reference for our wide PIP review , lead by the Minister for Social Security and Disability , to ensure that this vital benefit be fit for the future , take account of change in society since it be first introduce . the review will look at the role of the PIP assessment , include activity , descriptor and the associated point , to ensure that they properly capture the impact of long - term health condition and disability in the modern world . it will be co - produce with disabled people , their organisation , clinician , other expert and mp before report to the Secretary of State by autumn next year , and implement as soon as possible thereafter . the third issue of concern be that our plan to freeze the universal credit health top - up for exist claimant , and for future claimant with severe lifelong health condition and those at the end of life , would not protect income in real term , even with the increase in the universal credit standard allowance . I can today confirm that we will ensure , for those group , the combine value of the universal credit standard allowance and the health top - up will rise at least in line with inflation , protect their income from these benefit in real term , every year , for the rest of this Parliament . together , with the change to our proposal for PIP , that will ensure that no exist claimant be put into poverty as a result of the change in the Bill . finally , while there have be widespread support for the extra investment that we be put into employment support for sick and disabled people , I know that many Labour Members have be concern that that be not enough . I can today announce that we be put an additional £ 300 million into employment support for sick and disabled people . we will be deliver a total of £ 600 million for support next year , £ 800 million the year after and £ 1 billion in 2028 - 29 , increase our total spending on employment support for sick and disabled people to £ 3 . 8 billion over this Parliament , because disabled people who can work should not wait to have the same right and chance to work as everybody else . the measure that we be announce today will cost around £ 2 . 5 billion in 2029 - 30 , and the overall saving and costing of our reform package will be certify by the Office for Budget Responsibility in the normal way at the next fiscal event . welfare reform be never easy , but it be essential because there be no route to equality or social justice base on great benefit spending alone . the path to a fairer society , where everyone can thrive , where people who can work get the support they need and where we protect those who can not work — that be the path we seek to build with our reform . our plan be root in fairness for those who need support and for taxpayer . they be about ensure the welfare state survive , so that there be always a safety net for those who need it and that it last for generation to come . above all , our reform be root in our fundamental belief that everyone can fulfil their potential and live their hope and dream if we provide they with the right help and support . this be the well future that we seek to build for our constituent and our country . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the right hon . Lady for advance sight of her statement . this be a Government in chaos : open rebellion from their own Back Benchers , unfunded u - turn cost billion , and welfare plan that be not worth the paper they be write on . their late idea be a two - tier welfare system to trap people in a lifetime on benefit and deny they the dignity of work , while leave the taxpayer to pick up the ever - grow bill . it be a long - hold conservative belief that those who can work , should work . work provide security and purpose . that be why we launch universal credit , simplify complex benefit and ensure that work always pay . and it work . in the decade up to the pandemic , we get the number of people on benefit and the benefit bill itself down . some 800 job be create for every day that we be in office , give million of people the dignity and security that work bring . but then , during the pandemic , we see something new . the health and disability bit of our benefit system start to break . the bill be forecast to hit £ 100 billion by 2030 . one in every four pound of income tax will be spend on health and disability benefit — more than the entire defence budget . that be not fair for the taxpayer , not fair for people who be write off , and certainly not sustainable for the country . despite Labour have 14 year in opposition and now a year in government , they still do not have a plan to bring down the welfare bill or get people into work . what we have before we now be a rushed and chaotic compromise that be not reform in any sense of the word . it be woefully unambitious about saving , conspicuously lack in compassion and achieve no meaningful change of a system we all know be break . thank to the Government ' s late climbdown , we be leave with a plan that will save just £ 2 . 5 billion of a £ 100 billion bill by introduce a two - tier system . two people diagnose with Parkinson ' s a week apart will now receive different level of support — all to clear up an internal labour argument . the Government ' s own impact assessment show that these plan will not get a single person into work . the idea that work be the guide motivation for these change be laughable . there be thing that the Government could do . they could reform the fit note system , which see 94 % of people who apply tell that they be too sick to do any work at all . they could say today that they would make all sickness benefit assessment face to face . they could get a grip of the rise claim for common mental health problem , such as anxiety and depression . claim for those and neurodevelopmental condition such as ADHD be the main reason for the steep rise in the number of people on sickness benefit , make up more than half of all new claim . the Centre for Social Justice have find that the Government could save up to £ 9 billion by reform those benefit . however , nothing that we have see from Labour over the past couple of week suggest that it have the courage and conviction to grip that problem . in the meantime , our welfare bill will only continue to rise . we agree on the need for reform and have set out the condition under which we would support the Government : first , the welfare budget must come down ; secondly , we need to get people back into work ; thirdly , there must be no new tax rise to pay for increase in welfare spending . but with the welfare bill ever grow , unemployment rise and job disappear , the Bill fail on all account . will the Secretary of State confirm whether the change she be announce today will be pay for through borrowing or taxation ? where be these good job she claim to be create , when vacancy be go down and unemployment be go up ? have she read the impact assessment for the Government ' s Employment Rights Bill , which make it clear that it will be hard for people to find work as a result ? why do it take the Government a year to publish the term of reference for their PIP assessment review , and when can we expect change if it do not report back until autumn 2026 ? could I try one more time to ask what the difference be between the Secretary of State ' s right to try guarantee and our chance to work guarantee ? finally , be this it ? be there any more saving ? be the Government not go to get any more people into work ? be this the extent of their ambition for reform the welfare system during their time in office ? in five year ' time , will this be the Secretary of State ' s legacy ? I be in listen mode , and I listen carefully to what the hon . Lady say : once again , her strategy seem to be to rail against the problem that she and her party create . she have some chutzpah to talk about a two - tier system , when that be precisely what the Conservatives introduce when they protect people on legacy benefit when they move on to UC and replace DLA with PIP . they be part of that , and the hon . Lady should admit that rather than make those point . she say we should bring back face - to - face reassessment . we be do so — it be the Conservatives who switch they off . to be honest , I be still no clear about what the Conservatives ' policy actually be . the hon . Lady and the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Sir Mel Stride ) , claim that they have a plan to cut £ 12 billion from the welfare bill in their manifesto , but the truth be that it be nothing but a vague idea about turn PIP into voucher . she talk about fit note — I think the Conservatives try to reform they about three or four time but completely fail , as have all their other effort . the one change the Conservatives do propose be to the work capability assessment , and their consultation be rule illegal by the court . what be beyond doubt be the mess that they leave our welfare state and country in . economic inactivity be rise ; it be come down under Labour . disability benefit be double , with the cost to taxpayer soar . we be put in place real reform base on our value — fair for those who need support and for taxpayer . that be the leadership that this country deserve . I call the Chair of the Select Committee on Work and Pensions . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for her statement . I absolutely agree that we must reform our social security system ; under the previous Government , it neither support nor protect disabled people . I be also very supportive of the principle that the Government have set out . may I query some of the point that the Secretary of State have raise , however , particularly about a new PIP assessment process under the PIP review that my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability will be undertake ? the Secretary of State say that the four - point requirement will not apply until November 2026 , and that the review will report in November 2026 , but surely the PIP review should determine the new process . if this be be truly co - produce with disabled people and their organisation , the review should determine the new process , the new point and the new descriptor . we should not predetermine it as four point now . I thank my hon . friend for her question , and I look forward to give evidence to the Select Committee about our overall proposal . the Bill bring forward a four - point requirement for all new PIP claim after 2026 ; I have be very clear that that will apply only to new claimant . we be also committed to the wide review of PIP so that it be fit for the future . that will include consider the assessment criterion , the activity , descriptor and associate point to ensure that they properly reflect the impact of disability in today ' s world . the review will conclude by autumn 2026 , and we will then implement as quickly as possible any change arise from it . we have to get the right balance here . I have be a long - stand champion of co - production , include when I be the shadow Minister for social care . we have to do that properly , but the four - point minimum will be in place for new claimant as we look to make change for the future . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Prime Minister and many Ministers have identify that the benefit system be break and its cost be skyrocket , but balance the book on the back of the poor be wrong - head in the extreme . the proposal today be a leap into the dark . my liberal Democrat colleague and I be really concerned that they be rush proposal . legislation that be rush be often wrong , with unintended consequence . as the Member of Parliament for Torbay , I be concern , as my Liberal Democrat colleague be , about the disabled and long - term sick , their child , their family and carer . there be some root cause . our broken NHS and social care system need to be resolve so that support be there for those most in need . our access to work scheme be break and need resolve as a matter of urgency . there be some real challenge , so I hope that the Secretary of State will give some genuine answer . what consultation have she undertake with carer ? what cost shunt for our care and social need system have she identify in the proposal ? finally , will she consider withdraw these proposal so that there be adequate consultation and scrutiny to avoid any bystander be hit ? I know that the hon . Gentleman care passionately about these issue . he raise the urgent need to ensure that our NHS be back on its foot . we be begin to make a difference , with waiting list down for the first time in two year and with 4 million appointment — more than double we promise — create in our first year . the hon . Gentleman talk about the failing of access to Work . I absolutely agree : that be why , as part of the Green Paper , we be look to reform it so that it be available to more people in future . we care passionately about family carer . as I say in my statement , exist PIP claimant will be protect as a result of the change announce today , as will those carer whose carer ' s allowance be a passporte benefit . we be also look at the future of social care with the review by Louise Casey . we be bring these change forward because we do not think it acceptable that the UK have one of the wide disability employment gap in western Europe , at 28 % , which be much high than Germany , France and Sweden . we think that be unacceptable and we want to change it . that be why we be make these reform . rise — order . can we try to speed up question and answer ? no , it be not the Secretary of State ' s fault ; I be just think of the number . everybody want to make a comment , and I understand why . Johanna Baxter will give we a good example . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , the additional £ 300 million for employment support and that the PIP review will be co - produce with disabled people and their representative , but many of my constituent be rely on the Scottish Government for employment support and for get waiting list down to help they back into work . will she outline what discussion she be have with the Scottish Government to address those concern ? our new job and career service apply in all part of the UK — include Scotland — to help get more people back into work with personalised support . the spending review have deliver an additional £ 9 billion for Scotland . it be the big ever settlement in the history of devolution . I hope that the SNP match our ambition to get more people into good work instead of cut the employability budget as it have do in recent year . I think that the vast majority of people in this country believe in a welfare system that be compassionate to the vulnerable , and particularly to the disabled , but they can no long understand why so many people here — in contrast to other similar country — be in this situation where they be not work . it ' s because you be in power for 14 year . yes , we be in power for 14 year , and during covid , when I be a Minister , we make decision such as stop face - to - face assessment because we could not do they . we all recognise that the recovery from that covid time have not go as well as it should , but if the Secretary of State can not deliver a shift in the number , the economy will be in a death spiral . she need to recognise that these change need to be reset radically to meet the country ' s expectation . I absolutely believe that we have to reset the system . we have to make sure that everybody who can work get the opportunity to do so and the support they need . that be precisely what we be try to do with these plan . I gently say to the right hon . Gentleman , who I admire , that it be precisely that failure and that mess that we be now try to tackle . I thank the Secretary of State for the movement make in the last week . it would have be good to have have those conversation early , but we be where we be . in response to the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , my right hon . Friend speak about the November deadline and the four point kick in . will she explain to the House the rationale for settle on those four point in one category prior to the timms review ? our objective here be as it always have be , and I be grateful to my hon . friend and other for all their engagement with we . we be make these change because we have to both get more people who can work into work and try to begin to focus this really important benefit on those with high need so that it be sustainable for the future . that will not affect exist PIP claimant , who will have their income protect ; that be a very positive change that we be make . the timms review will look at those descriptor and the point that be allocate as part of a much wide assessment , because we have to ensure that this benefit last for the future so that it be always there for those in great need . the Secretary of State tell we that this week ' s u - turn will cost £ 2 , 500 million a year by 2029 . will she tell the House how she propose to cover that expense ? this change will be fully fund , and that will be set out in the normal way at the next fiscal event , as I be sure all hon . member will appreciate . I welcome progress , but I can not countenance sick and disabled people be deny support to enable they to be independent in the future , and 150 , 000 people be push into deep poverty . nor can disabled people across our country support these measure . it be a matter of conscience . will the Secretary of State set out why we be vote on these matter tomorrow , when the timms review mean that there could be real change to the criterion use in assessment for people to score four point ? it feel like sign a blank cheque . I know my hon . friend care passionately about these issue , but no exist claimant will be put into poverty as a result of the change in the Bill . the figure that she be give be about notional future claimant , and they take into account none of the record level of employment support that we be put into the system . we have publish very clear evidence that proper support programme can get sick and disabled people into work and to stay in work , make sure that they can improve their income and their life . we have absolutely commit to co - produce the timms review ; indeed , we will be work very closely with disabled people on our reform to access to work , and how we ensure that the pathway to work investment get the good result for disabled people and their family . that work will take time , but we will implement the decision as soon as possible . my constituent Steve have be a fit , active work person until about a year ago . since then , he have be debilitate by I , which have leave he able to get out of the house for only about an hour every fortnight . even get dress leave he need a lie down . PIP be already difficult for people like Steve to access . he tell I that he would rather have lose both his leg than have get I . could the Secretary of State tell Steve why , if he have get ME two to three year later , he almost certainly would not have be eligible for any PIP at all ? I be deeply concerned to hear about what the hon . Lady ' s constituent have be through . I have many constituent myself who have real need but have struggle to get PIP . we absolutely want to make sure that the whole assessment process work as effectively as possible . I urge she and her constituent to feed into the timms review . once again , exist claimant like her constituent will not lose their income as a result of the change in the Bill . it be very common throughout the benefit system to have exist claimant protect on old rule and old rate . that be what we be do today . I welcome the word of the Secretary of State that recognise the need to enable disabled people to fulfil their potential . since April , I have engage with the Government , make it clear that I could not support the proposal on PIP . our manifesto commit to champion the right of disabled people and the principle of work with disabled people . have no public consultation on these plan exclude the voice of disabled people . this be not just about process ; this make disabled people bad off . the principle of fairness mean that disabled people have a legitimate expectation to be consult , in order to fulfil the public sector equality duty under section 149 of the Equality Act 2010 . why do the Department for Work and Pensions choose not to consult with disabled people on the PIP proposal , and what work will it do to win back the trust of disabled people ? my hon . friend be a powerful voice , and I know she will always remain so in this House . we be absolutely committed to co - produce this PIP review , lead by the Minister for Social Security and Disability . she may know that we be also set up collaboration committee on access to work and pathway to make sure that we really get this right . I look forward to meet she and many other disabled people and their organisation to make sure that we get this right as we go forward . to describe it as fair and equal to treat people with identical condition differently purely on the basis of whether they be an exist recipient of benefit be orwellian newspeak on stilt , isn ' t it ? so why do the conservative party do it for 14 year ? I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . will the timms review have the power to review the plan budget saving for future claimant of PIP and universal credit health component ? also , if claimant request a reassessment because of worsen health condition , will they be assess on the current criterion or the new eligibility criterion ? the PIP review be not drive by an objective of make saving ; it be about make sure that this vital benefit be fair and fit for the future . as be the case now , people can request reassessment whenever they want . exist claimant will remain under the current rule , unless they request a reassessment , until November 2026 . from then onwards , there will be that four - point minimum . if this be what Labour think people vote for and what people want when they vote in July last year , why be it not in the labour manifesto ? why do Labour not put in its manifesto that it be go to cut the winter fuel payment , keep the two - child cap and push 150 , 000 more disabled people into poverty ? be it perhaps because the Secretary of State realise how deeply unpopular and wrong these change would be ? I do not expect the hon . member to have read every line of our manifesto , but reform the benefit system be in it . so too be our commitment to tackle child poverty , and I be beyond proud that the Chancellor invest the resource we need to extend free school meal to all family on universal credit and lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty . that be a down payment on our child poverty strategy this autumn . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . we all agree that the welfare system need reform but many of we in this place believe that change to disability support should not take place without listen to disabled people ' s voice and experience . over the last few day , I have be hopeful that the Government have show strength in listen and move on what they have hear . however , I have a question on sequence . what be the logic of make change for future claimant before finish the timms review , which be now to be co - produce with disabled people ? could this lead to not just two tier but three : exist claimant ; new claimant , who will lose out ; and post timms review claimant ? no , that be not correct . as I set out in my statement , exist claimant on PIP will be protect . the reason we be make the change for future claimant be that we want to start to focus that , for future claimant , on those with high need . for current claimant of both PIP and the universal credit health top - up , no one will be push into poverty as a result of the change in the Bill . health and sickness benefit spending be set to hit £ 100 billion by the end of the Parliament , so why be the Secretary of State not bring forward proper reform rather than these rush cut impose by the Chancellor that save only £ 2 billion , and that duck the difficult decision to deal with the scale of the challenge that we face ? perhaps the hon . Member should make that point to those on his Front Bench , who have 14 year . I welcome the clarity that my right hon . friend have set out , particularly for exist PIP claimant and those with severe condition , but my constituent who I meet this weekend want to have an active part in design the change that affect they . can she confirm that my constituent will be able to feed their direct live experience into the PIP review ? yes ; as I set out my statement , we intend to co - produce the timms review with disabled people , the organisation that represent they , other expert and mp , so my hon . friend ' s constituent will absolutely be able to feed their view into the review . we want to strike the right balance here , because co - production take time . we want to do it as quickly as possible , but it have to be do as effectively as possible . I look forward to work with my hon . friend and involve her constituent ’ view . I speak to a resident — a friend — in my constituency over the weekend . she be a wheelchair user since a fail back operation some year ago . she currently get PIP . she get three point for dressing and undressing and two point for washing and bathing . she need help with both , yet she fear , as do I , that anybody with her exact need apply after next November will be leave without help . we be right , be we not , to be concern and to fear that ? that be unjust and uncaring , isn ' t it ? I repeat to the hon . Gentleman that it be common through the benefit system to protect exist claimant from new rule and rate . I also say to he that we be put billion of pound extra into the NHS so people can get the health and social care support they need . we be put in place the big - ever employment support investment for sick and disabled people because we know disabled people who be out of work be twice as likely to be in poverty . that be the investment we be make . his constituent will be protect and will not be put into poverty as a result of the change in this Bill . I thank the Secretary of State for her commitment to bring forward a strong Bill , work with colleague across the House . the reality be that any one of we in this House could become disabled — disability do not discriminate . it be important for we to recognise the network of informal care that keep our social care system go . the reality be that a number of carer would not be eligible for carer ' s allowance without the PIP eligibility , and so many carer who receive carer ' s allowance be in poverty . those people do not do it for the money ; they do it because they want to help a love one or family friend . I know from personal experience , be a carer for my mum , the toll it take when you help someone to bathe , to get out of bed , or to cook and clean . these people do not do it for the money , but they be scared . can the Secretary of State confirm that we will protect those carer in any future PIP change because it be right that those carer should not be push far into poverty ? my hon . friend be a huge champion of these issue , and I have long champion what unpaid family carer do . as she say , many do not even think they be a carer ; they be just a husband , wife , son , daughter , mum or dad look after the person they love . I want to reassure she , as I say in my statement , that exist PIP claimant and all those who get passporte benefit , like carer , will be protect as a result of the change we have make . indeed , I know my right hon . friend the Health Secretary want to do far more to support family carer in future because without they , our NHS would collapse . do the Secretary of State agree that , while necessary at the time of covid , the removal of the requirement for face - to - face assessment be an opening of the door to potential abuse ? if so , will she commit in principle to the reinstatement of face - to - face assessment ? that be exactly what we commit to in our Green Paper . presumably , the outcome of the timms review will require some form of primary legislation to enact the change to the system that will come from the Department for Work and Pensions . in which case , I suggest to the Minister that remove clause 5 from the Bill tomorrow and put it into any future legislation mean the Department can still have its threshold in the future if it want to , but only once everybody know against what criterion those judgment will be make . we be co - produce this review , and it may result in change that require primary or secondary legislation or other action , and I do not want to pre - empt that . let I just bring my hon . friend and the House back to the purpose of these change : to ensure that we have a system that be fair for those who need support and fair for taxpayer , and to try to put the welfare state on a more sustainable footing for the future . if we do not do so , my real fear be that it will not be there for the very people who really , really need support go forward . today ' s statement feel like a panicked political fix to an indefensible attempt to cut benefit from the most sick and from disabled people , but it lack competence and compassion . give that the Secretary of State talk about social justice , how can she justify people who might need that support in the future not receive the support that disabled and sick people rightly receive today ? would the right thing to do not be to shelve these proposal so she can allow time to do what she have promise to do and to genuinely co - produce and consult with disabled people on the right way forward ? I fundamentally disagree with the hon . Gentleman ' s proposition . our change be root in the clear principle that those who can work should work and need the support to do so , and those who can not work should be protect , but that we need a system that be fair and sustainable . I do not believe that we can wait while disabled people in this country who want to work be deny the opportunity to do so . we can not have a system where one in eight young people be not in education , employment or training , with all the terrible long - term consequence that bring . we can not see one in 10 of our fellow citizen trap out of work and economically inactive , because that be not a good future for they or for our country . we already know that the Bill as publish be flawed , because of the change that have be make in the past few day and announce today . I welcome the wide review of PIP and the consultation with disabled people , their organisation and clinician , but give the wide review and that the timms review be yet to report , why be we push ahead at this stage ? because we have to begin to reform the welfare state , to help those who can work to do so , to protect those who can not and to begin to put our welfare state on a more sustainable footing . the Bill protect exist claimant — they will not be affect by the change . it ensure that people have a right to try , and that those with severe , lifelong condition never face reassessment . it come alongside the big - ever employment support for sick and disabled people . together , this be a fair and balanced package that meet the need of exist claimant and reform the welfare state for the future . there be almost a million few workless household in 2024 than in 2010 . one factor behind that be universal credit and reduce the barrier and perceive risk of go back into work if people be not sure how it would work out . notwithstanding the right to try , if there be to be two different level of health component outside the severe condition criterion , will that not raise those barrier back up and do the exact opposite of the right hon . Lady ' s state intent ? I fundamentally disagree with the right hon . Gentleman , for whom I have great respect . I actually think that universal credit sometimes lock people out of work , because they have to define themselves as incapable of work in order to afford to live . Less than 1 % of people on UC move into work each month . that be not good enough for they , their income and their life chance , and it be not good enough for the taxpayer , either . I thank the Secretary of State and her colleague in the Department for their tireless work over the past week , and I very much welcome her commitment to co - production with disabled people in the timms review . the atrocious handling of the pandemic by the previous Conservative Government have leave the economy and disabled people pay the cost . will the Secretary of State confirm whether the Timms review funding model will have the fiscal baseline of the inherit four - point system ? if that be the case , how can that mean meaningful co - production with disabled people ? I agree with my hon . friend ' s comment about the state of the economy . as I say in my statement , the four - point minimum will now not relate to exist claimant . it will come in for new claim in November 2026 , but the timms review and the co - production will look not only at the activity and the descriptor , but the point give to they . it be important that we do not set up a process of co - production and then overrule that . we want a benefit system that enable disabled people to have dignity and independence , and the same choice and chance to live the life that they want as anybody else have . it be a really important process , and I hope that she and many other hon . member in the House will work with we to get this right . I recently meet a support group in my constituency of those who suffer from I , chronic fatigue syndrome or long covid . their description of the devastating impact of those variable condition be very affect . if one of those people be to have an improvement in their condition , mean that they be no long eligible for PIP , and then to re - present for assessment , would they be entitle to return to the PIP level they be on previously , or would they be treat as new applicant under the term the Secretary of State have describe today ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point , which be precisely what we want to look at in the PIP review , because it do not take into account fluctuating condition . that be an important issue move forward , and we will be absolutely determined to involve he , his constituent , and organisation that represent those with fluctuate condition in the process of the review . [ Official Report , 16 July 2025 ; Vol . 771 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) I be grateful to my colleague on the Front Bench for listen to what back bencher have be say for month , and for make so many change . however , I do not see any change that affect young people , particularly care - experienced young people . will the Secretary of State cast some light on what discussion be ongoing with young people about the process involve they ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . as part of the process of the Green Paper we be establish a youth panel to ensure that young people ' s voice be hear in our future reform . many of the youth guarantee trailblazer that we be put in place as part of our £ 240 million get Britain Working plan be look to provide extra support for young care leaver , because they be in different circumstance and need extra help . I be sure there be far more that we could be do in future , and I urge she to work with we to ensure that their view be at the heart of our plan . many on the DUP Benches want to support the Government in achieve the objective of get people back to work , and be fair to those who can not work , but do the Secretary of State realise how difficult her action make it for we to give support ? last week the Deputy Prime Minister stand at the Dispatch Box and say , " these proposal will go before Parliament this week . they ' re fair , and if they don ' t go , there be a black hole in the economy that we can not fill . " this week we be now tell , " actually , lot of people be vulnerable , and it ' s not fair , and they rely on the income , and we will find the money . " the only thing that have change in the week be that 120 Back Benchers sign letter that would not support the proposal . do the Secretary of State realise how cynical that appear ? this be not about well - think - out proposal , but simply a way of buy back the Back Benchers who be rebel . it might astonish the House that I think leadership be about stick to our principle and value , and listen to ensure that we get thing right . I believe that listening be a strength not a weakness , and I believe that in politic as well as in life . do the Secretary of State agree that our welfare system must do much more to support and reward work , and also support people who be look to re - enter or enter work ? what difference do she believe that the right to try guarantee will make in achieve that ? labour ' s historic mission be to help more people who can work into good job in every part of the land . that be not only because we believe that be key to improve living standard , but because of the self - respect , dignity and purpose that good work bring . the right to try be an important step — we know that around 50 % of sick and disabled people say that the reason they be not try work be because they fear they will be reassess for their benefit . we have get to put that right . we have also get to put in place the employment support . we have to create good job in every part of the country , and get those waiting list down so that people can get back to health and back to work . we be take action on all those front , and I look forward to work with my hon . friend in his constituency so that more of his constituent can benefit . it seem entirely reasonable that a Government should want to control the amount that they spend on welfare , and entirely reasonable to want to focus that on the most in need . however , I do not understand why they bring out such rush change , which have do nothing but cause anxiety and distress , and leave they in a bad position in which they have now u - turn and be neither make saving nor reform welfare . will the Secretary of State please explain the rationale for the four - point limit that she bring in ? for new claimant , it be because we believe that we need to begin to focus this vital disability benefit on those with high need . I be deeply concerned that a doubling in the number of people on PIP over this decade , from 2 million to 4 . 3 million , with claim and award rise at twice the rate of the increase in the number of disabled people in society , risk the sustainability of the system in future . we have to ensure that it be there for those who really need it , provide that vital safety net go forward . the hon . Lady talk about have a reasonable approach , and I really do believe that this be reasonable . I believe that protect exist claimant and begin to make change for future claimant , back by the change to the right to try , stop reassessment and invest in real employment support , be the fair and right balance for the people who need support and for taxpayer . I thank the Minister for her statement and for her engagement . my question be about the co - production proposal . by what mechanism will that be give effect , and how be co - production different from consultation ? will disability group have any entitlement or power beyond simply give their view ? we be not set out the precise detail of how co - production work ; I think that would go against the very essence of it . we be already in discussion with disabled people and their organisation . on our Green Paper , we have already set out what we call collaboration committee , reform to access to work , our pathway to work and investment in employment support , because we want to get this right . we look forward to those discussion to ensure that people have a proper say and be fully engage and involve , because we want to make sure that we get this right . in her statement , the Secretary of State recognise that exist claimant " rely on the income from PIP for so many different aspect of their life . " one aspect , for many , be work . why do she think that new claimant will not have the same need and what " aspect of their life " do she think they should curtail ? the hon . Lady raise a really important point . access to work be there precisely to support people who have need over and above the legal requirement on employer to make reasonable adjustment . we need to fix that system because the backlog be too long and not enough people be get that support . that be precisely why we be consult on the future of access to work . we will make the change that people need , so that they can get the help they need to get good meaningful work and to stay in work , and we will deliver that as soon as possible . despite the change , be it not the case that over 400 , 000 disabled people — our constituent — who need assistance to cut up their food , wash themselves , go to the toilet and dress themselves , will be deny PIP from next year , when they currently would have get it ? be not the reality that Labour mp will have to deal with that , week after week , in their constituency surgery ? would it not be well if , rather than try to save political face , the Government pull this artificial , politically impose deadline of tomorrow ? it be important not that we save face , but that we get it right . many hon . member have understandably raise concern because their constituent who be on PIP , right here and now , be extremely anxious , even though if they be still on PIP at the time when the change come in , nine out of 10 of they will not be affect — they will be protect in future . the timms review will look at this vital benefit go forward — the activity , the descriptor and the point they get — and I really hope that my hon . friend will engage with we throughout the process to ensure that we get it right . the UK Government ' s amendment to the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill be not include in the initial statement on the Bill ' s compatibility with the european convention on human right . discrimination be a real concern , give that two people with the same condition could receive different support , base on when they become sick or turn 18 . will the Secretary of State make an update statement on compatibility and confirm that her Department have comply with the public sector equality duty under the Equality Act 2010 ? I can indeed confirm that we have comply with all our legal requirement . I do not doubt the Secretary of State ' s commitment to get this right . she will be very aware that , as it stand , the legal advice we have have be that these proposal will breach our obligation under the UN convention on the right of person with disability . the previous Government do that , and we rightly challenge they on it . so that we do not make the same mistake , will she give a commitment to write into a Bill that these proposal will be compliant with that commitment to ensure that person with disability have social protection and the enjoyment of that right without discrimination on the basis of their disability ? I simply say to my hon . friend , who know that I have deep respect for she , that I would not be make any change that I believe be incompatible with the law . I be sure that the Chancellor will be delighted that the flip - flopping of the Prime Minister mean she have to find another £ 2 . 5 billion in taxation on people in this country . do the Secretary of State think that it be fair that a two - tier system have be create ? why would anybody on the old rate seek work when they know that if they go into work , it do not work out and they claim again , they will get a reduce rate under her government ? because PIP be not an in - work benefit . [ Official Report , 16 July 2025 ; Vol . 771 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) the north - east have the high rate of disability in the country — 31 % — and more than a quarter of those of work age live in poverty , so the Secretary of State be absolutely right to say that welfare reform be hard , essential and must reflect Labour value and disabled voice . will she set out how the co - production of the new system with disability group will ensure that it be a fair system ? how will disability group in the north - east be able to be involve ? we will absolutely ensure that the view and voice of disabled people right across the country , include in the north - east , be fully involve in our process of co - production . my hon . friend be a powerful champion of that , and I hope that she , too , will get involve with our plan . the Minister for Social Security and Disability , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , will develop the process of co - production in close conduct with disabled people and their organisation , and I be sure that he will update the House shortly as those plan progress . on page 3 of her statement , the Secretary of State ask herself a rhetorical question about a two - tier system . somebody who be now eligible for personal independence payment get it , but can she simply confirm that somebody who suffer the same kind of condition whenever this Bill become law will not be eligible for the personal independence payment ? their support will be from friend or family , or they will have no support at all . be she really happy that we be deliberately create a two - tier system for people with profound need and disability who quite rightly expect the community as a whole to recognise and support they ? I simply say to the right hon . Gentleman that there be many difference in the benefit system already — people be on different rate and have different rule depend on the time they come into the system . that have always be a part of the social security system , include under previous Labour government . the timms review will look at the different descriptor and the point that be deliver to they , alongside much wide change . PIP come in more than 10 year ago , and there have be huge change in the nature of disability , the world of work and society . we have to ensure that this vital benefit stay in future , and that be what the timms review seek to achieve . I think it would be helpful to let member know that I plan to allow this statement to continue until 5 . 15 pm . it would therefore be helpful if question be short . over recent month , I have consult with constituent who have live experience of disability and the welfare system and their representative . I know that they will welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement that protection for exist claimant will be protect , but one of the most heartbreaking story I hear in those consultation be about a young constituent who apply for hundred of job and attend dozen of interview and simply could not find a job . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss what more we can do not just to support disabled people in my constituency , but to encourage employer to take on some of the talented , brilliant people live with disability in my constituency ? my hon . friend raise a really important issue , which be the world of work and the need to ensure that employer recruit and retain more people with long - term sickness or a disability . that be precisely why , in addition to the huge advance in our Employment Rights Bill , we have ask Sir Charlie Mayfield , the former boss of John Lewis , to look at what more we can do to support employer to recruit and retain disabled people . we be also overhaul our jobcentre so that they provide more personalised , tailor support . indeed , we have set our jobcentre a new goal of reduce the disability employment gap , which I believe will also make a huge difference . I call Cameron Thomas . welcome back , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Government ' s recent compromise with their own mps secure PIP for exist claimant , but not for those who come hereafter — a distinction bear not of compassion , nor apparently of economic , but to secure the Government ' s own political footing . if I be wrong , will the Secretary of State describe the moral foundation for this distinction between those who suffer today and those who will suffer in the future ? I be not go to take any lecture on compassion . I have fight my whole life to tackle poverty and drive up opportunity for people , no matter where they be bear , what their parent do , their gender , their sexuality or the colour of their skin . the social security system have many different rule for new and previous claimant . I do not believe that be an unfair system ; I believe it be the way in which we protect people who have come to rely on a benefit . I be proud of the change we have announce today — I think they be positive and get we to a good place . listen be a sign of strength , and I be absolutely determined to continue to listen . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement , and for the step she have take to improve the Bill . in launch the timms review , she have accept that the current PIP assessment criterion and descriptor be not fit for purpose . can she confirm that the difference between the timetable for implement the change that will require applicant to achieve four point in a single category and the timetable for complete and implement the timms review will result in some people fall between the old system and the new one ? they will be require to achieve four point on criterion that be not fit for purpose . for how long will that happen , who will be affect , and what will happen to those people in future ? I know that my hon . friend have work extremely hard on all of those issue . that question be raise previously by another colleague , and the answer be that there will be two set : the people who be on the exist system , who will be protect ; and those who will be on the four point as we go forward . however , the timms review will indeed look at the descriptor and the different point that they get . those change will come in as soon as possible — the review will report by autumn 2026 and we will try to put the change in place as quickly as possible . we do not yet know what the review will say or how those change will be enact , but we be determined to ensure that they be put in place as soon as possible . be the problem for the Government not the failure of the Prime Minister to even seek a mandate for what he be try to do ? he say that he would limit spending increase to £ 9 . 5 billion a year , but he have increase spending by eight time as much , and the effect on the fiscal rule be the root cause of this problem . he also win the Labour leadership by promise to " abolish Universal Credit and end the Tories ' cruel sanction regime " , but then he masquerade as a welfare reformer . do the Secretary of State now realise that to win a mandate , one need to be straight with people , include one ' s own mps ? I be very proud of our Prime Minister , who change our party so that we can change our country , and the mandate can be see by the number of mps on the Benches behind I . increase access to employment opportunity for disabled people and improve the retention of disabled worker be urgent before , and they be even more urgent now . my right hon . friend do not mention the Mayfield review , although she have just mention it in response to a question . can I please push she on that review ? first , can she expedite it ; secondly , can it include disabled people more meaningfully than it have until now ; and thirdly , will it indicate how the Government will implement our manifesto commitment to increase access to reasonable adjustment ? the Mayfield review will be report before the Budget . Sir Charlie Mayfield want to work closely with disabled people and the organisation that represent they . he have see inspire example of what good employer be do and good thing that other country be do , and that will provide some insightful lesson . the Minister for Social Security and Disability have already say that we be look at whether we should put in place a timeframe within which employer need to respond to request for reasonable adjustment . we want to make sure that those adjustment be make as quickly as possible , so that more disabled people can get work and stay in work . why be the propose PIP cut still be apply to new claimant , many of whose need be as urgent and severe as those of exist claimant ? the reason we be protect exist claimant and begin to focus PIP on those with high need in future be because we want a system that be sustainable and last . I do not believe it be sustainable to have a doubling of the number of PIP claim every decade , add 1 , 000 people a day . the rate be rise fast than the increase in prevalence of disabled people in this country . the truth be that the part of the country that have the high disability benefit claim and incapacity benefit claim be the place that be decimate by the Tories in the ' 80 and ' 90 , when whole industry close . those place be yet to have the investment they need to create job and have not have the investment in the NHS . I have always believe in the social model of disability . we have to put these thing right urgently , because disabled people deserve a well life than they have under the Conservatives . I thank my right hon . friend for her work on this issue and for make the statement today , although I share hon . member ' concern that make change before a review be put the cart before the horse . I must just press she on this . while I welcome the change that bring immediate security and protection for exist claimant , can she please confirm whether , if an exist claimant or someone on a legacy benefit be reassess , the new measure or the exist one will apply ? on carer , future applicant will face increase eligibility criterion . will carer be include in the co - production review carry out by the Minister for Social Security and Disability ? absolutely . my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability and I meet carer ' organisation and many other disability organisation the day after we publish the Green Paper . I want to be crystal clear : people who be currently on PIP and be on PIP by the time these change come in — November 2026 — will remain on that benefit under those old rule . in the first line of her statement , the Secretary of State affirm that this Government believe in equality . where be the equality in evaluate one person ' s eligibility for the daily living component of PIP on the practical consequence of their disability , and evaluate another on the date of their application ? this be a really common issue in the benefit system . if we could never change it , we could not undertake reform to make it sustainable for the future . exist claimant will remain on the current rule , even if and when they be reassess . change will come in for new claimant from November 2026 , but our review will look , as I have say many time , at the different activity and descriptor , and the point that they will get , because we need to make sure that this vital benefit be sustainable for the future . I thank the Secretary of State for come this afternoon . I welcome her announcement that the timms review of the PIP process will be undertake in partnership with people with disability ; that be critical , because in more than 70 % of appeal , PIP outcome be overturn in favour of the claimant . we need to get the assessment right first time and every time for all applicant . do she agree ? yes . I decide to go into politic because I believe that luck play too great a role in shape people ' s course and their quality of life , but unfortunately the system that have be announce today leave the fate of many disabled people down to luck — to whether they apply before November 2026 , or after . I hope that the Secretary of State will reverse her decision and drop the Bill tomorrow , but in case she will not , may I ask she to commit to engage with Kathy , a disabled person in my constituency who run a Facebook group of 44 , 000 people advise on PIP and disability - relate matter , to ensure that their voice be at the centre of the plan ? I will absolutely commit to ensure that those view and voice be hear , and I be sure that , as a strong champion for his constituency , the hon . Gentleman will do so as well . however , I do not believe that this be about luck ; I believe that certain part of the country , and different type of people , have be repeatedly neglect and deny opportunity and support . there be nothing about luck here . this be about people and place that have be write off and deny opportunity for too long . government , if they be determined , can make a difference , and that be what we intend to do . I have conduct a survey of my constituent on the subject of welfare reform , and I submit the finding to the consultation . I have also meet disability group across swansea and disabled constituent to hear their concern . the problem that I have find to be the most prevalent in Gower be the incompetence of Capita and the inconsistency of Department for Work and Pensions decision maker . that be why I genuinely welcome the announcement of the timms review , but what reassurance can the Secretary of State give that the review will address this matter and give people confidence in the decision - make process ? my hon . friend should , 100 % , send I the detail of those finding and concern . one of the reason we be not only bring back face - to - face assessment but record they as standard be our wish to get to the bottom of this and make sure that we put it right . over the weekend , I have the privilege of engage in a number of in - depth conversation with people and family live with disability , and I thank Dartford ' s Kindness Community for arrange that event . one comment that I hear again and again from the people I talk to be about how poor the health service have be at help disabled people to manage their condition over many year . how can the DWP and the Department of Health and Social Care work together to ensure that disabled people be properly support and help into work ? my hon . friend have make an important point . there be far more that the health service can do to help people with long - term sickness and disability to manage their condition well , because they can not do it on their own ; they need the right help and support . our joint work and health unit be work on precisely those issue , and I be indeed work closely with my right hon . friend the Health Secretary , because get people back to health and back to work be so important . we know that good work be critical to good health , and good health be critical to people get into work . those be two side of the same coin . we must end these false divide and get this sort out , so that we can help people to fulfil their ambition and work . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . it be vital for we to have a social security system that protect the most vulnerable , the ill and the disabled , so will she clarify one provision in the Bill ? will both the standard element and the health element of universal credit rise in line with inflation ? if that do not happen , disabled people will be push far into poverty and hardship . I want to make it very clear that the combine rate of the standard allowance and the health top - up will indeed rise in line with inflation , so that exist claimant be protect in real term , and the income of those with severe lifelong condition and those at the end of their life be also protect in real term through the combine universal credit standard allowance top - up . the Bill still leave over £ 3 . 5 billion of cut fall on disabled people and unpaid carer , with hundred of thousand of new claimant set to lose thousand of pound each year . protection for exist claimant be welcome , but a two - tier system will generate hardship for many and create societal division . we be be ask to vote without vital evidence — without the Office for Budget Responsibility impact assessment , or the Timms and Mayfield review . serious question remain unanswered , and we be without clarity on outcome and implementation . will the Secretary of State continue to listen , withdraw this Bill , and co - design welfare reform with disabled people ' s group ? I say to my hon . friend , for whom I have great respect , that none of this take into account the big ever investment in employment support for sick and disabled people . People have often say , " wait for the OBR ' s assessment , " but we have publish very clear evidence that good employment programme can help disabled people into work — programme such as Work Choice , a Labour programme end by the Tories , which see 40 % more disabled people in work for eight year . that be base not just on economic theory , but on practical reality . that be the difference that this Labour Government want to make . disabled people ' s organisation have be clear that even with these concession , they oppose this Bill . the Government talk of co - production of the PIP review , but it be not co - production if the starting point be deliver cut , and if the Government be ask disabled people where they would prefer those cut to be , rather than how we can create a system that truly support disabled people . do the Secretary of State not accept that , after month of the Government ignore disabled people , the only way that meaningful co - production can take place be if the Bill be pull and they go back to the drawing board ? I gently say to my hon . friend that we will protect exist claimant . that be the very purpose of the announcement we have make today . no exist PIP claimant , or people receive universal credit and the health top - up , will be put into poverty as a result of this Bill — far from it . we be change the system so that many more sick and disabled people who want to work can actually get work . that be about build a well life in future . this Labour Government believe that if someone can work and want to work , they should have the chance and choice to do so . some 200 , 000 sick and disabled people say that they would work right now with the right help and support . we be not cut the support for that ; we be actually increase it , because we believe that work be the key to a well life . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and for the recent move to protect exist claimant . I appreciate that the adult disability payment be devolve to the Scottish Government . however , my constituent be really concerned about the potential for different qualifying criterion across the nation , which may result in limited access to passporte benefit from November 2026 . what assurance can the Secretary of State give my constituent that they will not lose the benefit to which they currently have access , and the vital support on which their household rely ? follow the Secretary of State ' s response to my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , it be really unclear whether the House be be ask to agree to a four - point assessment without know the outcome of the timms review with regard to descriptor — or could that review result in more fundamental reform that would rip up the current PIP system ? on my hon . friend ' s first point , she will know that PIP be devolve to Scotland . I believe that the Scottish Government be review the ADP at the minute , include the eligibility criterion . that will be a matter for they , but I want to be clear to the House that the new four - point minimum requirement will come into force in November 2026 for new claim , and exist claimant will be protect . of course , the timms review will look at the different descriptor and the point for they in future , but the four - point minimum and the daily live component for new claimant will remain . the conservative party preside over multiple reform of welfare , and the result be a disaster . perhaps cruell of all be the fact that adult who have an irreversible health condition , and who could never work , be force to go through reassessment after reassessment , and to jump through hoop . can my right hon . friend please confirm that , with these labour reform , that cruel legacy will be end once and for all ? yes , I can . I believe that the unnecessary and unacceptable stress that that create be not right , and we will fix that with the reform in the Bill , because people need to live in dignity and security . the Labour party be define by work and by the dignity of work , and so be my community in Gateshead and Whickham . People have the belief that they should be able to work to provide for themselves , their family and their community , but too many in my community have be let down by successive government of all party who have not create the job we need and by a fail system . not one person who have speak today — not one — have defend the exist indefensible system . what will the Secretary of State do to ensure that community like mine , where work or a lack of work be the problem , receive the support we need ? my hon . friend speak powerfully about Labour ' s historic mission to help people who can work to do so , and about the fact that his constituent have be deny that support for so long . we want to transform that . with an age society in which more of we will be live with a disability or with one , two or more long - term chronic condition and in which we will be care for people , we believe that we have to change the welfare state . we have to provide more support to help people work , and the world of work need to change . that be why not only have we commission the Mayfield review , but we be put in the big ever employment support for sick and disabled people , with the additional £ 300 million of support I have announce today . rise — Order . I encourage member to keep their question short , or they will not all get in . have meet disabled constituent over the last few month , I have no doubt that the initial proposal cause anxiety , so I do welcome the change for exist claimant and the timms review . however , can I urge the Secretary of State to look at the sequencing to make sure that the review happen before we assess new claimant ? I have one final point about the assessor themselves . there be no doubt but that the involvement of private company such as Capita and Maximus have cause problem , as have have assessor who do not understand health condition . can we make sure that we look at that properly ? yes , we be absolutely committed to look at that . in fact , we announce in the Green Paper that we be overhaul our entire safeguarding process , include the training of assessor , because we want to get this right . we will not only bring back face - to - face assessment , but record they as standard , which I believe together will make a real difference to the process and ensure we get the decision right first time . these so - call concession go nowhere near far enough , and tomorrow I will be vote against these cruel cut , but I want to ask this . can the Secretary of State name a single disabled person - lead organisation that support this legislation ? I understand why disability organisation be make the point they be . that be their job ; our job be different . our job be to take the right decision — one that we believe be fair — to make sure we have a system that work for the people who need support , but that be also sustainable for the future . that be not easy — that be a statement of the obvious — but I believe we have a fair package . it be a package that protect exist claimant because they have come to rely on that support , as be often the case in the social security system . it begin to tackle the perverse incentive that encourage people to define themselves as incapable of work just to be able to afford to live , and it put in place employment support to help the hundred of thousand of disabled people and people with long - term condition who want to work . that be the right way forward , and I hope that my hon . friend and his constituent will get involve in the timms review to ensure future change make this vital benefit fit for the future . last week , I speak to one of my constituent , Mike , a disabled person who speak on behalf of many disabled constituent across Warwickshire . he be really pleased that he will have the right to try work , and he be also really pleased that disabled people will be treat with dignity and will be part of the co - production of the new proposal . however , he be still fearful that these change may mean loss and difficult situation for disabled people like he . can the Secretary of State reassure Mike that one of her Ministers will meet he to discuss these change ? in particular , how will we look at fluctuate condition such as ME and MS , which my partner suffer from , so that such people do not lose out and so that we make the change positive for every disabled person up and down the country ? we want to work with mps , disabled people , their organisation and other expert , as part of co - produce the timms review . the point about fluctuate health condition be really important and something we have to crack for the future , because so many people have those condition . they may be able to work one day and not another , or to work three day at home but not five day . we must make it fit for the future , because the reality be that we be live long , more of we have disability and more of we have two , three or more long - term condition . the welfare state in its broad sense — the NHS , as well as the benefit system — and the world of work have to wake up to that . as we live long , we will have to work for long , but we have to make that practical and decent . this be a relatively small Bill , but one core part of it have now be delegate to the PIP review and that will not report until November 2026 . can my right hon . friend say just how many disabled group have indicate they want to participate in the PIP review ? she have set out a number of red line today that I doubt they would agree with . if they be to propose that we do not have a two - tier system , what would be the Government ' s response ? the Minister for Social Security and Disability and I have meet many disabled organisation . in fact , he have speak to many already about the review . we will continue to discuss with they precisely how the system of co - production will work , but I want to assure my hon . friend that it be serious . we want to make sure people ' s view and voice be hear , and I encourage he , as a Member of Parliament , to get involve in the process too . as a signatory to the reason amendment , I welcome the listening that have go on , because a lot of people with disability will sleep more soundly in their bed know that their benefit be protect . however , on a specific point , if someone currently receive PIP but their condition be get bad and they ask for a reassessment of the level of their PIP , will they be assess under the current system or under the new one ? they be an exist claimant and they will be assess — let I be really clear about this — under the exist rule . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . PIP be , of course , a passport to freedom for many other thing such as the carer ' s allowance , and many local authority use PIP for blue badge and bus pass . do the Secretary of State have a plan to mitigate the impact of the potential change to PIP eligibility on access to blue badge and bus pass for disabled people ? as I say in my statement , exist PIP claimant will continue to have that benefit . it will not be affect even if they have a reassessment , and neither will all the passporte benefit . carer ' s allowance be the well know , but all passporte benefit will be include in that protection . this morning I meet Parkinson ' s UK , which be very concerned about the change to both PIP and universal credit , and in particular that they will not take account of those with variable condition . will the Secretary of State make a commitment that Parkinson ' s UK will be involve in the co - design of the change to PIP , universal credit and other welfare benefit , and that any welfare change will fully consider those with Parkinson ' s and other variable condition ? I be absolutely sure that Parkinson ' s UK will be involve closely in the PIP review . two week ago , I hold an in - person consultation on the welfare reform . many of my constituent be deeply concerned about the proposal , so I welcome the change the Secretary of State have announce for exist claimant . I want to ask about employment support . I welcome the additional support be bring forward . when will we get more detail on how that will be allocate to scheme across the country , and will the people who need it most be involve in the co - production of those scheme , so that they work effectively ? yes , we already have what we be call a collaboration committee on the pathway - to - work funding to ensure that it really meet the need of sick and disabled people . as I have say in the House before , it really be about a pathway to work — for some people , just get out of the house , or get out of bed , be a huge achievement ; for other , it might be about go along to a group , begin to speak to other people and get their confidence back . it really be a pathway to success . we will be set out precise allocation of the pathway - to - work funding in due course , but I want to reassure member that it will be available in every single part of the country . I grow up care for two disabled parent . as a kid , I see at first hand the harm that happen when the british state routinely let down disabled people . it be why disabled civil right activist have a phrase , " nothing about we without we , " and it be why I be look for genuine and meaningful co - production . on Friday , I bring together seven Bournemouth support organisation and people with live experience , and they want I to raise two issue . the first be continue concern about the eligibility criterion . the second be whether the mental health support that the Government be roll out will be in place in sufficient quantity to support potential new claimant by November 2026 . my hon . friend raise an important point about mental health support . this Government be determined to ensure that there be parity of esteem between physical and mental health . we have already recruit 6 , 700 of the 8 , 500 additional mental health worker we promise in our manifesto , and we be put in place new emergency mental health service and bring in new Young Futures hub , which will include mental health support . I know that my right hon . friend the Health Secretary be determined to ensure that that support be available in every part of the country . I be sure we will hear more in the come week and month . I thank the Secretary of State for acknowledge at the Dispatch Box the anxiety of disabled people . I be also grateful for the time of the Disability Minister in listen to my concern about the PIP assessment process — concern that I now see reflect in the timms review . I be sure the Secretary of State will be disappoint to hear that at a recent consultation event in the north - east , some of my constituent find that the venue be not fully disability compliant . will she assure I that the Government will ensure full accessibility for participation in the timms review ? that be unacceptable , and I will sort it . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . I wonder if she will reflect on whether the Bill before we tomorrow be the good way of make welfare policy . would it not be well to withdraw the Bill and wait for the timms review to complete its important work ? welfare touch on the life of million of people in this country every single day . make change to it be never easy — perhaps particularly for a Labour Government , because tackle poverty and inequality be in our dna . however , I believe that we must begin to make these change to ensure that those who can work get the support they need , to protect those who can not and to begin to slow the rate of increase in the number of extra people go on to sickness and disability benefit . I believe that the route to equality and social justice can never come from extra benefit spending alone ; it have to come from put in place good job , a decent health service , skill and transport infrastructure — the good world of work that we know be key to bring about a well life . it be clear that the central issue for many on the government Benches remain . rush through legislation without full and meaningful consultation with disability group be the wrong way round — we do not build policy first and ask question later . the Government ' s arbitrary deadline be not a necessity , but a political choice . they be force through decision that risk push hundred of thousand more disabled people into poverty . I therefore say to the Secretary of State with absolute sincerity on behalf of many member : do the fair thing — and , more importantly , the right thing — and withdraw this Bill and listen to disabled people . I believe that we be do the fair thing and the right thing . we be begin to make reform to put our welfare bill on a sustainable footing for generation to come . we be begin to put in place the employment support that sick and disabled people have be deny for too long . we be make sure that those with severe and lifelong condition be never again reassess , and that there be a new right to try . I believe that this be a fair and balanced package . above all , I believe that it be the right one . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement and the Government ' s work to ensure that help be there for those who need it now and in future . many in this House will be worry that progress on close the disability employment gap stall under the conservative party , at 28 percentage point . will the Secretary of State confirm that that be one of the metric that the Government be focus on in the strategy , and that the gap must and will close under this government ? we be absolutely determined to achieve that . I do not believe that it be acceptable that in this country the disability employment gap be 28 percentage point . that be one of the wide in all Europe : in France , Germany and Switzerland , I think it be at about 22 to 23 percentage point . we have to tackle that , because if we believe that the right of disabled people who can work be equal to those of anybody else , we have to start make a difference . I know that this be an issue of deep concern for many member across the House , but I believe that the package we be put forward today be a fair one and be the right one . I will continue to listen to member of this House , but we can not wait to reform the welfare system . People need we to make change , and our country demand it . I thank the Secretary of State for listen to the concern of Back Benchers and for make some real and meaningful improvement base on the concern that we have be raise privately . I also thank she for confirm explicitly , a moment ago , that my constituent who be reassess post November 2026 will be reassess under the current system . may I gently encourage the Secretary of State to go far and to overhaul and radically rethink the role of jobcentre ? far too often , they hold people back rather than break down the barrier to people ' s progress into work . our Minister for Employment be indeed overhaul our jobcentre so that they provide personalised , tailor support for people to get into work , not some sort of endless tick - box process , and so that they be much more link to the wide system in local area : to the local NHS , to skill provider and , above all , to employer . I do not think it acceptable that only one employer in six have ever use a jobcentre to recruit . that be why we be overhaul our strategy with single account manager for employer , to fully involve and engage they , because we need their involvement if we be to help more people to get work and get on in work . rise — order . for the final question , I call Sarah coombe . my borough , Sandwell , have one of the high rate in the entire country of young people not in education , employment or training . this generation of young people have be let down by year and year of system failure by the conservative party . as we go through this necessary piece of reform , we must do it carefully . will the Secretary of State commit to work with the Department for Education and the Department for Business and Trade ? for young people to get the job that will transform their life chance , they will need the right qualification as well as need the job to be available . I absolutely agree . let we be honest : today ' s economy be brutal for people without skill . we be already set out our plan to reform the system of apprenticeship . we want to see new foundation apprenticeship . we be bring in new six - week swap — sector - base work academy programme — that will give people guarantee work experience and a guarantee interview , which I think will make a real difference to young people . there be much more to do , but our commitment to a youth guarantee so that every young person be earn or learning be the key to a well future for young people and for our country as a whole . Glastonbury Festival : BBC Coverage with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement about the event at Glastonbury over the weekend . member of Parliament will have see , as I have , the appalling and unacceptable scene at Glastonbury on Saturday , where chant of " death to the IDF " and " river to the sea " among other be broadcast to the nation . I have be in touch with my right hon . friend the Home Secretary as to whether there have be any criminal offence commit . the House will know that decision relate to specific case be an operational matter for the police . Avon and Somerset police have confirm that video evidence be be assess by officer to determine whether any offence may have be commit . it just announce in the last few minute that that be now take the form of a criminal investigation . as I hope hon . member will appreciate , therefore , it would not be appropriate for the Government to comment on an ongoing investigation at this stage , but let I be clear that the Government will not tolerate antisemitism , which have no place in our society . it be a poison and a cancer that must be root out , and we will be relentless in our work to do so . the Government work closely with the police and community partner to ensure the safety and security of jewish community . we will continue to do so follow the enormous impact that these event have have on they over the weekend . let I turn to the role of the BBC . on Saturday afternoon , just after the broadcast , I call the director general to ask for an explanation and what immediate step the BBC leadership intend to take . as the Prime Minister say yesterday , it be essential that the BBC explain how these scene come to be broadcast . the BBC have rightly apologise and take the immediate decision not to put this content on iPlayer . I welcome that . however , key outstanding question remain , include : why the performance be broadcast live give concern regard other act in the week precede the festival ; why the feed be not immediately cut when the chant of " death to the IDF " begin ; and what due diligence be do prior to the decision to broadcast this particular act to the nation . I expect answer to those question without delay . I have make that view clear to the BBC leadership , and I will update the House as soon as I can . over the weekend and this morning , I have also have conversation with member of the jewish community , include those who be present at Glastonbury . they have raise a number of concern about imagery and slogan that be on display at the festival over the weekend , which I be tell lead they to establish their own safe space at the festival . as a government , we take that incredibly seriously . we be urgently look into the specific of those alarming report and reach out to the festival organiser . finally , I want to be clear about the Government ' s role . as a government , we strongly support freedom of expression , and as Culture Secretary I will robustly defend the independence of our broadcaster and the right to artistic expression , but we do not accept that incitement to violence , hate speech or antisemitism be art . there be a clear difference between speak out for Palestine , which be the right of everybody in this House and everybody in our country , and antisemitism , which be not and never will be . when the right and safety of people and community be at risk and when our national broadcaster fail to uphold its own standard , we will intervene . in the come day , I will be have further conversation with the BBC and festival organiser to ensure that lesson be learn and action be take . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , for advance sight of it and for her tone . I have always be a strong advocate for the BBC , which be a cornerstone of british public life with a proud history of cultural contribution . the event of the weekend , however , have make that incredibly difficult . during coverage of the festival , as we have hear , the artist whose real name be Pascal Robinson - Foster lead the crowd in a chant of " death to the IDF " , a moment that , extraordinarily , be transmit by the BBC . let I be clear : a national broadcaster fund by licence payer must adhere to the high standard of impartiality , responsibility , and commitment to social cohesion . I hope we can all agree that in this instance it have fail profoundly . free speech and political activism be the sign of a healthy democracy — they be essential to it — but when someone cross the line to incitement to violence , there must be a consequence . broadcasting be not a passive act . every second of broadcast transmit be an active choice . air Robinson - Foster ' s hateful rhetoric be not just a lapse in editorial judgment ; it be a disgraceful affront to the jewish community and a violation of the BBC ' s own public charter to entertain without undermine the fundamental value of our society . as the Secretary of State say , let we be clear that hateful rhetoric should never be cloak as artistic expression . this incident also raise fundamental question about the BBC ' s institutional culture . this be a broadcaster that have time and again give airtime to representative and supporter of Hamas , while refuse to clearly identify the group as what it be : a terrorist organisation . the BBC have repeatedly fail to call out antisemitic rhetoric when it emerge under the guise of political commentary , and have face serious allegation of minimise attack on jewish community . the BBC ' s decision to also broadcast material from Kneecap , a group whose member have openly call for Members of Parliament to be kill , be as indefensible as it be shocking . we have already see the devastating consequence of political violence in this country , with the loss and tragic murder of Jo Cox and Sir David Amess . for the BBC to amplify voice advocate similar violence be grossly irresponsible . even more troubling be that a lead member of the group be currently face a terrorism charge . that fact alone should have prompt an immediate editorial intervention . instead , the BBC give the group a platform on a publicly fund service . I welcome the fact that the Secretary of State have speak to the director general , and I be grateful to she for come to the House to report on that exchange ; however , I would like to press she far to ensure that the gravity of this matter be fully recognise . be she satisfied with the BBC ' s explanation that it originally decide that stream the performance be in line with its editorial guideline , and have now decide that " we will look at our guidance around live event so we can be sure team be clear on when it be acceptable to keep output on air . " do she think that the BBC ' s editorial guideline be not clear enough , or that the BBC misinterpret they in the first place , and do she think that that sort of weak response will be of cold comfort to the jewish community ? I welcome the fact that the Secretary of State have speak to the Home Secretary . I wonder whether she could also assess whether the BBC ' s action constitute a breach of section 22 of the Public Order Act 1986 . do she believe that the BBC ' s current editorial oversight mechanism be adequate , specifically across the commercial broadcasting arm like BBC Studios , and do she think that it be still right that the BBC get to mark its own homework in the first instance before Ofcom get involve , or be an independent inquiry what be need ? in the light of the repeat failing , will the Government commit to a full review of the BBC ' s impartiality and governance standard as part of the royal charter renewal , and can she provide an update to the House on why the charter renewal framework and Green Paper have not yet be publish ? I thank the Secretary of State for her work so far . she will have the support of the Opposition , and I welcome her commitment to come back to the House to update we . all those involve in the event of this weekend will hear the very strong feeling on both side of the House , so I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for that . I share his view about the importance of the BBC . those of we who believe in the importance of our national broadcaster be probably more angry than anybody about what have happen over the last few day . it be precisely because we understand the importance of the BBC that we know the BBC have to do well . he ask whether I be satisfied with the explanation that I have have so far . I be not . I have be very clear with the BBC leadership about that , and clear that I expect to get a full explanation immediately , without delay . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the possibility of an independent inquiry . I would say to all member of this House that I be not sure that we need an inquiry to establish that it should have be foreseeable that there would be problem with broadcast this weekend , that the decision to broadcast live without any delay should have be review , and that the live feed should have be pull immediately when the chant of " death , death to the IDF " begin . what I want to see from the BBC — I know the right hon . Gentleman share this — be rapid action to ensure that this can not happen again . I promise to update the House on these development but I should also say that I be still expect a response from the BBC about an early decision to broadcast a documentary about Gaza , which it be then discover fall short of the BBC ' s own editorial standard . I expect a response swiftly , and I expect action as well . finally , can I thank the right hon . gentleman for mention the jewish community ? have speak to friend and colleague across the jewish community over the weekend , I can not describe how much this have impact on they , particularly those member of the jewish community who be at Glastonbury . I be extremely distressed to hear that there be organisation that be about to be proscribe by the Government whose logo be emblazon very visibly on t - shirt and banner . I be concerned to hear report that there be image associate with Hamas and other , as well as nazi imagery . Most people who go to Glastonbury , I think , go for exactly the reason that I have be in the past , and I suspect the right hon . Gentleman have as well . it be because music festival be an incredible way to bring people together , to show support and solidarity , to bind a nation and to showcase great british talent . it be our job , collectively , to ensure that those festival become again , and remain , a place where everybody in our country be welcome . as well as the despicable chant , the monologue that precede they by the artist in question clearly draw on the influence of jewish power in music , an age - old antisemitic trope . could the Secretary of State say a bit more about what conversation she will have with the BBC , not just on what it broadcast but on what be allow to happen at Glastonbury ? do she also agree that those age - old antisemitic trope , whether they be in Parliament , on stage or in public life , should be a red line for all of we ? yes . my hon . friend have a long history of stand up to antisemitism , include when it stain and sully our own party , and I be grateful to he for his leadership on this . those question about what happen at Glastonbury be not for the BBC . there be serious question for the BBC about what it broadcast and the decision that it take , but there be also wide question about the sort of thing that we want to see in our country . as the Secretary of State , I have be very clear that it be not for the Government to try to determine what can be see and what can be hear , but I also have a view about this as an individual : I do not want to see that sort of thing , I do not want to hear it , and I take great exception to it . the Prime Minister be very clear on that point as well . it cause harm to people in the real world , and I have feel that very strongly this weekend . that be why this Government be determined that , wherever we see that form of antisemitism — include the appalling comment that my hon . Friend reference that be target towards an individual in the music industry simply because they be jewish — we will always stand up to it and not hesitate to take action . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . sadly , rather than devote our attention today to how this House can push for a just and sustainable resolution to the horror of the conflict in the middle east , we be talk about something else . on this occasion — there have be past occasion , too — it be the deeply inappropriate language use by a shock jock , attention - seek musician and a public service broadcaster ' s apparent failure to fulfil its responsibility to uphold its own editorial standard . Bob Vylan ' s chant at Glastonbury this weekend be absolutely appalling . we can never accept hate - fill chant call for death to anyone in our society , at a music festival or anywhere else , whatever the subject . it be right that there have be widespread condemnation , include from the organiser of Glastonbury festival , and I associate myself and my party with those word . of course the UK must push much hard for a ceasefire ; of course we must put pressure on Netanyahu ' s Government to roll back their military campaign and build a sustainable two - state solution ; and of course Liberal Democrats believe that cultural event must be a place for debate . but there can simply be no place for hate speech , antisemitism and incitement to violence , at Glastonbury or anywhere else . it seem that an editorial failing take place in the BBC ' s coverage . the decision to proceed with broadcast this act be particularly hard to understand give the BBC ' s correct decision to take a more cautious , but ultimately fruitless , approach to the broadcasting of Kneecap . a cursory look through the social medium of Bob Vylan raise the question , " how exactly be this not foresee ? " of course , we also know that Kneecap have in the past call for the death of member of this House . the failure to use delay coverage effectively and to remove the coverage in a timely manner be baffle . will the Secretary of State tell we whether , when she ask the BBC about this issue , the subject of charter renewal be raise ? can she give we concrete reassurance that change will happen and we will never have to put up with this dreadful antisemitism appear on our screen again ? I thank the hon . member for his comment and the tone in which he make they . it be the responsibility of all of we always to stand up to antisemitism . it be sadly a battle that be never win . the lesson of history be that it fall to every generation to fight antisemitism and fight it again , and certainly I can promise that this Government will always do that . let I turn to the specific question about the BBC and charter renewal — with apology to the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) for not answer his question on this early . I have not discuss charter renewal in the context of Kneecap and the other act broadcast from Glastonbury this weekend . we have , of course , discuss charter renewal , and it be absolutely right to say that editorial standard must be part of that discussion . when we release the term of reference , which we be due to do shortly , everyone in this House will see a clear commitment to that as part of the ongoing conversation we will have about charter renewal . finally , I welcome the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) say that chant of death must not be make to anyone . chant of death — to anyone — be not welcome in our society . there be something particularly pernicious about chant , " death , death to the IDF " . many colleague will know that in Israel , there be a conscription model . every young person be require to serve in the IDF , which mean that chant " death to the IDF " be equivalent to call for the death of every single Israeli Jew . that be one of the many reason why we take this so seriously and why it can not be argue that this do not cross a very dangerous line . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement . I share her concern that although freedom of expression must be protect , this incident raise serious concern about the editorial standard and judgment exercise . as a long - stand supporter of the BBC , I be deeply disappointed in it . what conversation the Secretary of State have with the editorial team to ensure that a serious incident like this can never happen again ? as well as speak to the director general of the BBC on Saturday , a number of official have be in touch with the BBC ' s senior leadership team . we have put to they a series of specific question that we expect immediate answer on , and we will continue to press hard to ensure that they be forthcoming . I will of course update the House at the early opportunity , and I expect to speak to the chairman of the BBC in the come day . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I thank the Secretary of State for that strong and welcome statement . the BBC editorial guideline on livestreame be actually quite clear . they say , " the level of monitoring should be appropriate for the likely content . a producer should normally be in a position to cut the feed from a live stream if it become necessary . " what explanation have the BBC give for why the livestream be not cut ? it can not be for lack of staff on the ground ; the BBC take a report 400 people to Glastonbury at the weekend — what be they all do ? for such a vast operation with multi simultaneous live show go out across various different part of the site , have the Secretary of State have the opportunity to ask the BBC who have the final say on which band be deem suitable for live broadcast and why on earth it choose this one , and who make the final decision when it become necessary to cut a livestream ? the hon . Lady ask a series of typically important and relevant question , some of which I have put to the BBC directly , but I will make sure that I ask it all those question , with a response expect as soon as possible . she be right to raise the number of staff who be present at Glastonbury festival or work on the broadcast and to ask what they be do , but this also raise very serious question at the high level of the BBC about operational oversight and the way in which editorial standard be understand and reflect in the decision of individual staff . I have already have that conversation with the BBC board in relation to a Gaza documentary , but I expect to have it again in the come week . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the BBC and a former employee of the Prospect and bectu union , which represent BBC staff . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement and the BBC ' s own statement today , which make it clear that the performer ' s antisemitic sentiment be utterly unacceptable and have no place on our airwave , and that the BBC will examine its guidance on live event to ensure that team be clear on when it be acceptable to keep output on air . do the Secretary of State agree that it be possible to express concern about the appalling suffering in Gaza without use language that risk fuel hatred and division or incite violence ? my hon . friend make an incredibly important point . as somebody who have be associate with the palestinian cause for nearly two decade and have consistently speak out about the israeli Government ' s treatment of people not just in Gaza but in the west bank , I know that it be entirely possible to stand up for the Palestinians and never , ever to stray into antisemitism . many member of this House have manage to do precisely that over many year . nobody be object to the comment that say , " free Palestine " . what everybody be object to be the comment that be clearly antisemitic , incited hatred and cause real - world harm to people in the jewish community in our country . I could not agree more with my hon . friend and I support he on that . for those who say that this be a freedom of speech issue , I say that it be nothing of the kind . this be about stand up against hatred , discrimination and racism in all its form , but particularly antisemitism , of which we have see an enormous rise in our country in recent year . every single one of we need to be vigilant to make sure that it be never allow to spread . what we see be an appalling pro - terrorist broadcast on our national broadcaster . those who chant " kill the IDF " be endorse those who kill they — and those who kill they be Hamas . it be an endorsement of the terrorism of Hamas , yet the BBC deliberately choose not to cut the broadcast . therefore , perhaps it be time for the Government to consider cut the licence fee . this government ' s view of Hamas be clear : they be a terrorist organisation . they be ban in the UK and there be a good reason for that . we will continue to be outspoken about that and robust in relation to they . I be very concerned to hear that there may have be imagery , symbol and graffiti in support of Hamas at the festival this weekend . we will not hesitate to ensure that we deal with and get to the bottom of that in order to stand with our jewish community and with everybody in this country who stand against Hamas and be at risk from they . on the licence fee , the hon . and learn Gentleman will know that this government support the BBC . we believe that it be an important institution . that be why we be so disappointed that this have happen and have be so exasperate with the lack of account from the leadership not just about this , but about a previous Gaza documentary and a number of other issue . the BBC be one of the most important institution in our country and that be why it be hold to the high of standard . it be essential that we hold it to the high of standard as we seek to start the charter renewal process , which should not just safeguard the future of the BBC for the next 10 year but put it on a solid footing for decade to come . these be question that we , as a Government — collectively with the BBC and all member of this House — be determined to grip . I thank the Secretary of State for her excellent statement . the murder of hundred of Jews at the Nova music festival in October 2023 spark this war , and the irony of broadcast antisemitism at Glastonbury here in the UK be not lose on any of we . how be Jews in this country , such as myself , to be reassure about editorial process at the BBC , and who on earth will be hold accountable for this error ? my hon . friend make an extremely important point about accountability . that be not lose on I as the Secretary of State , and it be something that I have impress upon the BBC ' s leadership . when there be one editorial failure , it be something that must be grip ; where there be several , it become a problem of leadership . I very much take his point about that . he raise a point about the strength of feeling that people have about this issue , give that this be a music festival , and it be at a music festival on 7 October that so many young people lose their life , with other kidnap , never to return to their family , and some be still be hold hostage . at that moment , it would have be the perfect place to express support , love and solidarity with those who be still suffer . I know there be those at the festival who be do precisely that , but they be hinder by some of the appalling scene that we have see . that be why we be determined to grip this and ensure that music festival be a safe and inclusive space for everybody . the Government be reach out to other music festival , and to Glastonbury , to see what more can be do to express solidarity with those who be still suffer as a consequence of the appalling event of 7 October , and to see what we can do to support those effort . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement — I agree with practically everything she have say . when I hear these report , I think of the Mayor of Wilton , Councillor Alexandra Boyd , who be jewish , and about what it would have feel like for she to have watch that with her family . we in this place all understand the fine editorial judgment that BBC staff have to make , but this be of a completely different order . when people be lose faith in the great institution of this country , I urge the Secretary of State in her follow - up conversation to ensure that the BBC identify accountability to individual . my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) set out clearly the guidance that exist . somebody do not follow that guidance , and I think the country expect people to be hold individually to account for why they fail to do their job properly . People do expect people to be hold to account for the way they do their job , be that on the frontline or at senior level . that be a point I have make to the BBC , and it will have hear what the right hon . Gentleman and my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) say about accountability . it be a point that I will continue to press . the Secretary of State have speak about responsibility at the BBC , and of those who say those dreadful word . what responsibility do those who be organise the festival have both legally and morally to be hold responsible and accountable , and to ensure that this do not happen again ? I deliberately include some word about the festival itself in my statement , because I agree with the hon . lady : we all have a responsibility to uphold the high standard , and to ensure that people be safe , welcome and include at our share national event . the report I have have over the weekend , and this morning , be incredibly alarming , and they suggest that that be not the case this weekend . we be reach out to festival organiser and investigate those report , to ensure that this can not happen again . another week , another month , and once again the BBC have get it horribly wrong , in its Glastonbury broadcast , with regard to Hamas and to antisemitism , and once again there have be another grovel apology . I ask the Secretary of State : how long must this go on before , regrettably , many in the jewish community and million of british people conclude that the BBC be institutionally antisemitic ? the hon . Gentleman ' s view about the BBC be very clear , but those of we who support the BBC and believe it be an incredibly important institution will know that it should and do , in some instance , play an important role for all community to be hear and to feel value as part of our public life . that be the standard that we expect the BBC to be hold to , and this Government will hold it to that standard . we will not hesitate to take the necessary action to ensure that it rise to meet those standard . I congratulate the Secretary of State on her statement . history tell we that normalising , condone and tolerate the kind of thing that we see at Glastonbury over the weekend never end well — it end extremely badly . as a neighbouring mp , I have write twice to Worthy Farm with my concern about Kneecap , follow report about one of its member advocate the killing of mps . there be no reply — and none be expect . instead , the festival schedule Bob Vylan , who , as we hear , also advocate kill people — this time Jews . do the Secretary of State agree that it be no good for Glastonbury ' s very wealthy organiser to be bang on about their festival be a safe space for everyone while it continue to facilitate operation like that ? I share the right hon . Gentleman ' s concern about how this be able to happen , and I be sorry to hear that he have have no response to very serious concern , which be raise in his capacity as a democratically elect Member of Parliament for people in the area who deserve answer . I be happy to follow that up on his behalf , and with he after the statement . I share his view that festival , and particularly music festival , must be safe , inclusive and welcome space , and I fear that we fall way short on this occasion . I have visit Glastonbury before and know that it provide an incredible showcase for a lot of up - and - come british artist , not just those at the top of their game . however , as the organiser rightly acknowledge , a line be cross at the weekend , and that must not be allow to happen again . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and the sentiment contain therein , but would she agree that in the run - up to the festival it be clear to many of we , give the track record of some of the participant , that this , or something like it , be go to happen ? the Government be aware that something be go to happen , as be the BBC , yet still it happen . where do the sanction lie , who be go to implement the sanction , and when be we go to know what it be ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s sentiment that much of this be foreseeable ; none of we could know precisely who be go to say what , but even a cursory glance at Google would show that this particular artist have a history of provoke extreme statement and behaviour , particularly in relation to event in the middle east . so it would not have be too difficult to foresee that , and there be therefore serious question to answer about livestreame , due diligence and other factor . I expect a response from the BBC on those question and about the action that it will take to ensure that this do not happen again . if those answer be not forthcoming , I have various lever with which I can hold the BBC to account , and I want to be clear with the hon . Gentleman and with the House that I will not hesitate to use they , if I need to do so . have those chant call for the death of people of any other nationality or ethnicity , there be no question in my mind that the live feed would have be pull straightaway . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s robust statement , but do she agree that this problem be systemic , and that there have be a decade - long , deep - root bias against Israel at the corporation , which seem unwilling to deal with it , or incapable of do so ? I feel the strength of feeling , anger and emotion behind what the hon . Gentleman say . I feel that from the jewish community over the weekend , and from all of we , include myself , who feel very strongly that this should not have be allow to happen , and it certainly should not be allow continually and repeatedly to happen . he ask whether there be in - build bias at the BBC , but I think that what have happen be a serious failing of editorial standard , leadership and oversight , which I need to ensure we address . the hon . Gentleman say that if the chant have be about any other group , the live feed would probably have be pull straightaway , but I be not sure that we can say that with any confidence . as the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , make clear , there be hundred of BBC staff involve in the production , and the BBC be represent at Glastonbury at the most senior level , yet the feed be not pull and the standard be not uphold . regardless of which community it affect , it be my job to ensure that those standard be uphold . I give he my word that I will use every lever at my disposal to ensure that happen . I wish we live in a world where there be no chanting of death . any form of racism be vile , be that Islamophobia , antisemitism or any other kind . the Secretary of State will recall that only last November , israeli football fan be chant , " death to all Arabs " and , perhaps more sickeningly , " there be no school in Gaza , because there be no child . " that kind of speech and chanting must equally be condemn . what be sad be that although we have have a ministerial statement today , we have no ministerial statement when that chanting happen — it be the hypocrisy that be cause an outrage in the british public . do the Secretary of State not agree that that be what be happen out there in the community ? I could not disagree more . I and every Member of the House utterly condemn chant of " death to all Arabs " as disgusting and disgraceful , as a principle by which we hold ourselves — there be no hesitation from anybody in this House to do that . the reason I have bring a statement to the House today be because our national broadcaster , fund by the licence fee that be pay by the public , have broadcast something that be deeply offensive to a community in this country , and that have make many , many people feel unsafe , and may actually have make they unsafe . that be extremely serious and rightly a question for Government , which be why I do not hesitate to bring the statement to the House today . if the BBC have broadcast the chant that the hon . Gentleman describe , he would be hear the same statement from this Dispatch Box and the same response from other hon . member . let I also say to the hon . Gentleman that I have stand up for the palestinian cause in this House for the good part of two decade , especially when it be hard and unpopular . that cost I friend and colleague , but I stand alongside many member of the House to highlight the plight of the palestinian people . so as a long - stand supporter of justice for the Palestinians , I say to he that he do nothing for the palestinian cause by align himself with antisemite . a blind man on a horse could see that there be go to be difficulty broadcast a band call Kneecap , name after a terrorist punishment , who have call for the death of people in this House . we should take a moment to reflect that Airey Neave and Ian Gow be both kill by republican murderer . give the event of the weekend and previous incident , be there not a pattern emerge ? will the Secretary of State at least test the idea that the BBC have a fundamental problem with Israel ? let I first recognise that the BBC have be criticise by all side in the conflict for bias , which show the difficult editorial line that it have to walk , but let I also be clear that , in relation to what happen at the weekend , as the BBC itself have rightly acknowledge , the coverage , the standard and the enforcement of those standard fall well short of what be expect . I acknowledge that it be not the first time in recent month that that have happen . I assure the hon . Gentleman that the Government take this incredibly seriously . we be have discussion with the BBC at the most senior level to ensure that this be grip . as I say previously to other colleague , I have lever at my disposal and will not hesitate to use they , should I need to . anyone who witness the disgusting image of young , middle - class , educate moron chant " death to the IDF " at the weekend can only be alarmed that we have stoop to this level in our society . even bad , the state broadcaster broadcast those image across the nation . I welcome what the Secretary of State say , and the way in which she say it . she have call the director and ask for immediate explanation , and expect answer , but give that the BBC have already ignore call from this House to explain its bias , do she really expect to get any satisfactory answer from an institution that I believe be antisemitic at its very core ? do she have any confidence in any police investigation , give that the police have already decide not to prosecute the member of Kneecap who call for the killing of Tory mp ? in the last few minute before we come into the Chamber for this statement , the police announce that there be an ongoing criminal investigation , and it be important that we allow the police to do their work . of course , I would not hesitate to call the director general of the BBC and ask for an explanation . I expect that explanation to be forthcoming and satisfactory , by which I do not mean that I expect excuse about what have or have not be do in this instance . I expect a full and honest explanation of what have clearly go wrong on this occasion , and a full explanation of what will be do , not through another review , with month and month of delay , or by spend public money on try to get the bottom of what have go wrong , but immediately to ensure that this can not happen again . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . towards the end of the Secretary of State ' s answer to my question , she say that I do no favour to the palestinian cause by align myself with antisemite . at no stage do I say in my question that I be align myself with anyone at the Glastonbury event . will the Secretary of State clarify what she mean ? if she do not mean that , I apologise , but I would like some clarity . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order , which be in fact not a point of order . I do not intend to allow the debate to continue via point of order . Prax Lindsey Oil Refinery with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement about the Prax Lindsey oil refinery . today its owner have declare insolvency at the refinery , and the Government be urgently act in response to that deeply concern news . I know that will be extremely worrying news for worker at the refinery , as well as for the wide community in Lincolnshire . let I say very clearly that the Government stand with the worker , their family and the wide community at this difficult time . they have be let down by the company , but we will ensure that they be support . let I take the House through the chain of event lead up to today , and the action that we will take in response . there have be long - stand issue at the refinery since it be acquire in 2021 . at the end of April , the Government be inform of ongoing commercial difficulty , and the Energy Secretary meet the chief executive on 13 May to see how the Government could provide support . the Secretary of State be reassure by the company that there be no immediate closure risk at the refinery . a week ago , the business change its position , and say that it fear that it could no long be a go concern . we repeatedly ask it , at an official and ministerial level , what the financial gap be , to work out whether the Government could help to bridge that gap , but the company be unable to share that basic information . as a result of today ' s decision by the company , an official receiver and administrator have be appoint to take over different part of the business . the Government will ensure that supply be maintain , protect our energy security , and do everything we can to support the worker , include engage with trade union and industry body . let I update the House on the Government ' s response . first , we will work with the official receiver over the come day and week to manage the situation at the Lindsey oil refinery site , and to determine the next step . the official receiver will take immediate step to ensure safe operation at the site , ensure continued fuel supply and explore all credible option for a sale . unfortunately , the refinery have consistently fail to make a profit since it be buy by the current owner from Total in 2021 ; it have record a total of around £ 75 million of loss between its acquisition in 2021 and the financial year end February 2024 . that have leave the refinery in very bad shape , and the company have leave the Government with very little time to act . we be support the official receiver in carry out its statutory duty , include manage the situation on the site to determine next step . that will include urgently report back on the step , include all potential use of the site , prior to the wind - down of the refinery . as to the wide business , extensive operational and financing interdependency in the Prax Group mean that the refinery ' s parent company , State Oil Ltd , have also be place into administration today , along with a small number of other group entity . however , other part of the group , include its UK retail business , have not go into administration . the retail business will trade as normal , while the administrator look to secure a sale in due course . secondly , there be question that must be answer about how the owner allow this situation to happen . that be why my right hon . friend the Energy Secretary have today write to the Insolvency Service to demand an immediate investigation of the conduct of the director and the circumstance surround that insolvency . thirdly , as we engage in this work , our immediate priority be to ensure that affected worker at the Prax Lindsey refinery be support through this difficult time . the Government believe that the business ' s leadership have a responsibility to the worker and the local community . we call on it to do the right thing and provide support to the worker through this difficult period . the wealthy owner can not wash his hand of his obligation to the worker and their family . that be why we call on he to put his hand in his pocket and deliver proper compensation for the worker . the Government will now urgently work with the company and trade union to explore what further support can be offer to the workforce , include the maximum possible help to ensure that worker can pursue new job opportunity if the refinery can not be sell . fourthly , we be commit more widely to secure the long - term future of the UK ' s refinery sector . it be important to say that the UK have a refining sector with a number of well - run operator . I meet the refining sector early this month for a ministerial roundtable , and it tell I that it have not have such a meeting with Government for 13 year . the reality be that the previous Government leave the UK ' s refining sector face significant long - term challenge . we know that there be global challenge too , include competition from large refining operation in the middle east , India and Africa . we have already see the effect of year of negligence from previous government , and this Government have be leave to pick up the piece . the UK Government be determined to work with industry , worker and trade union to ensure that we safeguard our refinery for the future . that be why we be review the methodology for the energy - intensive industry compensation scheme that we inherit from the last government . the refinery sector be not cover by that scheme , and the review will help assess whether sector such as this should be cover in the future , and whether more can be do to help their competitiveness . that be not all : in less than 12 month in office , we have invest in carbon capture , usage and storage , which can help key refinery , such as Phillips 66 and Stanlow , through Viking and HyNet . we have fund Project Willow at Grangemouth — a project that can help all refinery meet future challenge — and we be drive forward with the sustainable aviation fuel mandate , to help the refining sector maximise the opportunity create by the clean energy revolution . from the moment we be inform of these issue , the Government have be focus on secure the future of the Prax Lindsey oil refinery site and support its worker . today , those worker have be badly let down by the company , but we be commit to support they and the wide community during this difficult time . the Government be absolutely committed to a long - term future for the UK ' s refinery sector , and over the week and month ahead , we will provide further update on the step I have set out in this statement . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement , and for take the time to speak with I on this issue early today . today , hundred of job be at risk , and a strategically significant asset be in jeopardy . the Lindsey oil refinery have a capacity roughly equivalent to 35 % of british petrol consumption and 10 % of british diesel , and it supply aviation fuel to Heathrow airport via a pipeline . refinery represent a core strategic interest for the United Kingdom . we be reassure that the oil and gas field to the west of Shetland be not at risk , nor be the network of petrol station affect by today ' s announcement — I would like to reiterate that that side of the operation be not at risk . the refinery have be loss - making since it be acquire from TotalEnergies in 2021 , and we be aware of long - stand financial issue with the Prax group , include its be unable to provide account to the Government . as such , we support the Government in order an investigation into the conduct of the director and the circumstance surround this insolvency . however , despite the management issue face the company , which , as the Minister have say , be multiple , it be clear that the refining industry as a whole be be drive into the ground by the high cost of energy in this country . in the late 1970 , Great Britain have 17 oil refinery ; if the Lindsey refinery in the Humber close its door , only four will remain . energy be the single large cost of operate a refinery , so the sky - high cost of energy to industry in the UK be push manufacturer in energy - intensive industry such as refine out of business . as Sir Jim Ratcliffe at INEOS have say , the chemical sector be " face extinction " because of " enormously high energy price and crippling carbon tax bill . " industry in the United Kingdom be uncompetitive , with two oil refinery close within six month . it be quite clear that we need a rethink . if our route to lower emission in the UK come at the price of deindustrialisation , and cost job , livelihood and economic growth — if it mean impoverish the UK and increase dependence on import , and a fragile supply chain for fuel and essential oil product — then we must rethink . if the Secretary of State bring refinery within the scope of the energy - intensive industry compensation scheme , he will be provide only a sticking - plaster response . exempt specific industry from policy cost such as the renewable obligation , the feed - in tariff , the contract for difference subsidy , and capacity market payment do not fix the foundation . this piecemeal approach simultaneously accept the devastating consequence of green levy for the industry and abdicate responsibility for fix the root problem . we be already see the real impact on work people ' s livelihood and community of not take action . some 400 job have be lose at Grangemouth ; 60 have be lose at moorcroft pottery in Stoke ; over 1 , 000 have be lose at Vauxhall in Luton ; and 250 have be lose at Nippon Electric Glass Fibre Works in Wigan . now we see the same at the Prax Lindsey oil refinery , where 440 people be employ . unite the union have warn the Government that their policy " have place the oil and gas industry on a cliff edge " . this Government be drive up the cost of energy , increase our reliance on import , and offshore our carbon emission . that be not good for the climate , and it be very bad for Britain . refinery have consistently raise the issue of the existential issue that the sector face , include the cost of the emission trading scheme and eye - wateringly high energy bill . since the closure of Grangemouth , this Government have take no action to tackle the fundamental problem : the need to reduce the burden on business , make UK manufacture more competitive , and back british industry . I have some question for the Minister . what be the Government ' s plan for the Lindsey refinery ? do he expect to find an operator ? how long will the Government support the refinery , and what plan do they have for the refinery if no buyer be forthcoming ? what action will the Minister and his Government take to ensure that the situation be not replicate at Britain ' s four remain refinery ? how many petroleum refinery do he expect to be leave by the time the Labour Government leave office in 2029 , and what will the Government do to bring bill down for all industrial energy consumer , not just those cover by the energy - intensive industry compensation scheme ? I thank the shadow Minister for rightly reiterate the fact that it be not the whole of the business we be discuss that have go into administration today . it be really important to say that there be certainty in other part of the business — we will be able to outline more of that in the day and week ahead . I also thank he for his and his party ' s support for the investigation into the conduct of the director that the Secretary of State have launch . clearly , something have go badly wrong here , and it be important that we get to the bottom of it . the shadow Minister ask three specific question . first , the Government have back the official receiver , who be now run the refinery in the short term . we will use that time to see whether there be a possibility of find a buyer — clearly , our very first option be to see whether someone want to take on the refinery as a go concern , and we will put every effort into try to find one . if that be not possible , we will look at what the wide future of the site might be and what possibility exist for other industry on that site . turn to the shadow Minister ' s wide question , he speak about fix the root of the problem . I have to gently say to he , though , that he and his party oppose the action that will fix the root of the problem , which be our continued exposure to volatile fossil fuel price that have drive up the cost of electricity . as he rightly say , household and business right across the country be pay the price for that . we have an answer to that , which be to move much fast towards a clean power system include renewable and nuclear that bring down cost and deliver that power here in the UK , rather than rely on the casino for volatile fossil fuel . however , the shadow Minister oppose that plan . he can not call for we to fix the root of the problem — as he put it — while oppose the very action that will do so . we have outline a credible plan for how we will deliver cheap electricity for all consumer across the country , include business , and we be get on with deliver it . the Conservatives oppose all those initiative . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . my hon . friend the Minister recognise the importance to our energy security of secure the fuel supply at Lindsey . he also recognise the importance of engage with the trade union to attempt , at least , to reassure the workforce . I thank he for those action and congratulate he on they , and indeed on the engagement that the Government have have with the sector since the election . refinery operation be increasingly challenging , not least because of the volatility and uncertainty in international fossil fuel market that the Minister just mention , but also because of the competition across the world . Phillips 66 and Stanlow , which he mention in his statement , be adapt to the change in our energy system , take advantage of carbon capture and the production of sustainable aviation fuel and biofuel . will the Minister ensure that the UK refinery sector be part of the energy transition and a key part of our energy and industrial strategy , so that refinery play a key part in the future for the community and worker that depend on those job at the moment , and so that we do not see a cliff edge ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . first , he be right to restate what I say in the statement — when I bring in the refinery industry for a roundtable , it be frankly extraordinary to be tell that it be the first time in 13 year that that have happen . that be an extraordinary state of affair . I be glad that we have now hold that roundtable , but what it have highlight be just how much engagement with the sector be now necessary . I be determined to drive that engagement forward . my hon . friend be also right about the nature of the transition . refinery will be important at all stage of the transition . clearly , they be critical to deliver our fuel security today , and they will play a really important role in that area in the future — in sustainable aviation fuel , biofuel , and the wide work we need that sector to do . we will support refinery to transition into some of those future technology . the bottom line in this case be that we seem to have have a business that be far from do that — it be not drive forward the investment that be necessary . we will now , at pace , try to get to the bottom of what the director be do with this company . it be a shocking state of affair and a sad day for the worker , but I genuinely believe that there will be a strong refining sector in the future . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I , too , thank the Minister for advance notice of the statement today . our thought be with the worker at the Prax Lindsey refinery who have hear this last - minute , shocking news today , which have put their future and job on hold . we understand that this be just one refinery within the Prax Group , but the threaten closure will send shockwave across its wide operation , with its newly acquire oilfield to the west of Shetland and roughly 200 petrol station in the UK under the Breeze and Harvest Energy brand . while those facility be outside the insolvency process as thing stand , worker in those upstream business and the wide community will understandably be worried about the impact of the insolvency on their job . there be question to be ask of the company boss in both State Oil and the Prax Group , and it be good to hear the Secretary of State ' s announcement of an investigation into how the company boss have let worker down . we welcome the Minister ' s word that the company should bear some responsibility and accountability for job and skill for those worker , if it turn out that the company close . we welcome the Government ' s proposal to consider add refinery to the network charge compensation scheme for energy - intensive industry . once again , as we have hear , we see UK industry buckle under soar energy cost — some of the high in Europe — with worker leave to pay the price . many in this House will feel a troubling sense of d é j à vu follow the Grangemouth job loss . we have hear from the Minister about the state of the refining industry and how the industry have not meet the Government for 13 year . such situation make it yet clear that the Government must set out a comprehensive and strategic plan for worker in the oil and gas industry to support the redeployment of skill and training as part of a just transition . a recent report by Robert Gordon University warn that the UK risk lose ten of thousand of offshore energy job by 2030 unless urgent and co - ordinate action be take immediately . rather than the irresponsible and reckless race backwards to volatile fossil fuel dependency that the Conservatives have put forward today , the report call for honest dialogue to settle on a common UK policy framework — order . the hon . Lady will know that the time limit for response to statement be two minute for the Liberal Democrats . I be sure she have finish her comment . in conclusion , many thank , Madam Deputy Speaker . I think I get all the hon . Lady ' s key point down . importantly , I agree with many of they . first , I echo the point that she make about this be shocking news for the worker , as it always be . give how quickly it have happen , it have be as much a surprise to we , but for the worker it will be particularly shocking news . I will reiterate two thing that the hon . Lady say , just to be clear . she mention the upstream business west of Shetland . that be not file for insolvency . the petrol forecourt will continue to operate as normal , and the administrator be explore the prospect of a sale of those retail operation . there be no need for anyone to be concern about any of that . there be an argument that it be critical , whatever the outcome , that the company take some responsibility for the action it have take up to this point and for the worker who be employ in its business and keep it run for a long time . I have be clear in my statement today , and we will continue to reiterate it , that we expect the owner to put their hand in their pocket and provide the support that those worker deserve . finally , I be in Aberdeen last week talk to people about a comprehensive plan , and I will continue to do that , because it be right that we put in place a comprehensive plan for the future of those work in oil and gas . there be a bright future for that workforce in oil and gas for many decade to come , but increasingly they will transition into new industry . we be determined that we will deliver those job . a plan be crucial , and I be work on it at pace . I thank the Minister for his statement , and he be right that this news have send a shock reverberate around our local area . back in April , I visit the Prax site , which sit in the constituency of my neighbour , the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) . I speak with the staff and trade union rep about the importance of their work , and I be impress by their commitment to the company . there be absolutely no hint of the scale of difficulty — beyond how challenging it be in the refining sector anyway — or how deep and uncomfortable the company ' s financial situation be . it be astonishing that the company could not answer basic question about its finance when the Government ask for those detail . the decision take by State Oil put more than 400 local job at risk , with around 65 % of those worker live in north - east Lincolnshire . I appreciate the effort that the Government be make to support our worker , and I hope to work closely with the Government to help find a new buyer to preserve the job and support domestic fuel production as a strategically important asset . however , as thing stand , I understand that State Oil be require only to make statutory redundancy payment to those worker . do the Minister think that the billionaire owner of the refinery could do more to well support those worker in the event that they lose their job ? surely that be the least they could do , after what appear to be gross mismanagement . I thank my hon . friend for her question . by talk of her recent visit to the refinery , she underline the issue that have come to light in such an incredibly short space of time , although the truth be that in uncover some of this , we have discover that it go back some time . that be why my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have announce that he have ask for an inquiry into the decision that have be make . we need to get to the bottom of this and learn any lesson that we can . my hon . friend be right that we have to do everything we can to support the worker . we will continue to do that , and we will look at what support we can provide for they . at the moment , these be job at risk rather than redundancy that have be announce . we be do everything we can to see whether someone be interested in buy the refinery as a go concern , in which case the worker would be retain . we will do everything we can to support those worker should that not come to fruition . my hon . friend be right to point out that under the current process , those worker will be entitle to statutory redundancy only . it be clear that the business ' s leadership have a responsibility to those worker , not only because it be right and prudent for all owner of business like this to take responsibility for the workforce , but because , particularly give how this business have end , they should take responsibility for the worker and the local community . we call on they to do the right thing and support the worker through this incredibly difficult period . I thank the Minister for his statement and for the briefing he give I early today . it be disturb that when the Government reach out to the company for additional information , it be not forthcoming . the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) ask some pertinent question , one of which be how long the Government be prepared to support the worker and the refinery . it would be reassure for many of my constituent who work there if the Minister could give some indication that there will be support at least in the medium term . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his time early today . this will be a distressing issue in his constituency , so it be good to have the chance to speak to he about it . he be right . with this decision have be make last night in the court and make public this morning , we have not have much time to fully work through the timeline of what will happen in the come week . the Government be fund the official receiver to continue the safe operation of the refinery . the first priority will be to make sure that safe operation proceed , but then we will see whether a buyer be interested in the site . we will then move as quickly as possible , if that be not possible , to see what alternative there be for the site . I can not give the hon . gentleman assurance on exact timescale at this point , but he can be assure that the Government be determined to do the right thing , and we will do whatever we can to get either a buyer or a sustainable future for the site . I reiterate to the House that this be a difficult set of circumstance with little time to prepare , and the refinery have be loss - making since it be take over from Total some year ago . it be a difficult position , but we will do everything we can . I be glad that the root cause of the problem that we face have be identify . we have touch on it , but this be what happen when private capital be in charge of such a key piece of infrastructure . we see that play out at the Grangemouth refinery in my constituency , and it be good to hear my hon . friend the Minister in agreement with I in condemnation of the owner of the Prax Lindsey refinery . it give I hope that the Government will learn important lesson and assume at least some form of ownership in the future industry that will be come at Grangemouth and potentially at other site . can we get an update on that , please ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the work that the Government be do follow our £ 200 million commitment to support the future of Grangemouth through the national wealth fund . there have be 84 serious and credible inquiry about project there , and I have be meet those involve in some of those project to discuss what more the Government can do to ensure that they be deliver . we will say more about that in due course , but we be work collaboratively with the Scottish Government and Scottish Enterprise to bring the project forward . as we have say since day one , we be determined to deliver a sustainable , viable industrial future for Grangemouth . the difference between Grangemouth and the Prax Lindsey refinery — I want to separate the two slightly — be that while we may have issue with the owner of various site across the country , an 18 - month redundancy package be put in place at Grangemouth and that be not the case in this instance , which be why the Government be particularly call on the owner of this refinery to do the right thing for the worker there . Westminster ' s mismanagement of the energy sector be clearly be feel across these island , and the Government be right to arrange a statement today to address the possible closure of the Prax Lindsey oil refinery . however , that be not a courtesy that the Labour Government have ever extend to Grangemouth in Scotland : they have not once come to the Chamber to make a statement about it . we have see Labour pull out all the stop for Scunthorpe and now begin that process for Lindsey . will they think again and do the same for Grangemouth ? the Shetland gas plant be also own by Prax , and be also a significant employer . what step be the Government take to secure the future of this site , and why do the plant not feature in the statement , if only for the purpose of an assurance ? let I deal with that on two front . first , we have come to the House repeatedly to talk about Grangemouth . I have have meeting with a number of member over the past year to discuss Grangemouth , probably more than I have have to discuss any other issue , and I have weekly meeting with Scottish Government Ministers , business or other to discuss Grangemouth ' s future . no one want the outcome that we get from Grangemouth , but we have do everything in our power to turn that around and deliver a viable economic future for the site , so I do not entirely accept the hon . Gentleman ' s criticism , which I think be misplace . secondly , I apologise to the House for be unable to give explicit detail about every part of the business , but one of the problem be that we have not be able to obtain clarity from the company about all the interdependency within its own business group . we will discuss more of this in the come day as we engage with the official receiver . it be important to separate the issue of insolvency for the refinery — the specific issue that we be discuss today — from the wide group issue , but I have no doubt that we will return to some of those in due course . the shadow Secretary of State mention Moorcroft in Stoke . a small glimmer of light in what be otherwise a rather gloomy story be the rescue of that company by Will Moorcroft , the grandson of its founder , and the job that be potentially come back . however , those job be put at risk , much like the job at this refinery , because of the eye - water industrial energy cost that we face in this country . the Government have announce the british industrial competitive scheme , but it will not come alive for industrial energy price until 2027 , which be two year away . I think I hear the Minister say that the Government would consider the potential for change the criterion for the energy intensive industry compensation scheme to bring in new sector that could be offer some immediate help and some respite between now and the introduction of that scheme . if that be the case , will the Minister be clear about it at the Dispatch Box , and if he be able to look at the EIIC criterion , can he also look at the exist energy supercharger scheme , which would give ceramic company in my constituency access to the support that they need in order to continue to thrive ? my hon . friend be right to mention the impact of high electricity cost across industry . since we come to office we have be do everything possible — through the industrial strategy , and through other work that my colleague in the Department for Business and Trade have be do — to try to drive down energy cost , and we be do wide work across the energy system to deliver clean power by 2030 , and to bring down bill and reduce the volatility in bill that affect too many household and business throughout the country . we be look at all the possible option , and I have say to the refinery sector that we be willing to look at all the scheme on a case - by - case basis . there be no easy answer to many of these question , but we will , for example , consider eligibility for the industrial competitiveness scheme follow the consultation that will open shortly , and it will be review in due course . I understand that the question relate to how fast we can move on some of these matter , but we need to ensure that we get this right , and we be do everything we can , where we can , to move fast with some of the decision . the Government stand in to secure British Steel , cite national security and protect job ; now they be stand in to support Prax Lindsey , cite the need to protect energy security and worker . as the Minister know , ten of thousand of job and many , many company in north - east Scotland be near a cliff edge because of the Government ' s policy . to prevent the need for another eleventh - hour standing in by the Government , will he now support the North sea by end the energy profit levy and allow new licence there ? I should avoid stray into taxation policy , which be not in my brief . however , I will say that we be do everything we can to issue a speedy response to the consultation on the future of energy in the North sea , which be all about how we strategically plan the future of oil and gas in this country to ensure that we be build up the future industry at the same time as support exist oil and gas supply chain and job , and we be move that work forward . let I be clear about what the official receiver do . the official receiver be in post with statutory duty , but that be not in the same bucket as nationalise an industry . it would not be right for the Government to underwrite fail business , but we have a responsibility to ensure that an active refinery be wind down in a way that be safe , or that we can find a buyer to continue it . I stand in solidarity with the worker in the oil industry who be face such uncertainty and fear . this incident illustrate perfectly why a carefully manage worker - lead transition away from oil and gas be so desperately need to avoid a chaotic collapse in which worker pay the price . will the Minister agree to implement my Energy and Employment Rights Bill , whose proposal include the publication of a plan for the redeployment and retraining of oil and gas worker , pay for by oil and gas company across the industry rather than piece by piece and crisis by crisis ? I do not agree with the hon . Lady ' s propose piece of legislation , so I will not be support it . I think that that be the wrong approach , although she have highlight the right problem . we be move as quickly as possible to plan the transition properly , although we should have be do that many year ago when it start , and as a result we have lose a third of the workforce in the past 10 year . More than 70 , 000 people have lose their job because we fail to plan for this . I recognise the problem that the hon . Lady have describe , but I think that the answer be for we to do two thing : to manage the exist field and support the industry for the lifetime of those field , and to build up , at speed , investment in the industry that come next . in the spending review the government support industry in respect of carbon capture and storage and hydrogen , and , of course , significant investment in the supply chain through great British Energy to ensure that we be build infrastructure in this country again and secure the job that come with it . the transition be important , and we be do all that we can to ensure that worker be at the heart of it . I appreciate the Minister ' s word of support for the worker who be face such horror and shock , and the liberal Democrats will work hard to hold he to those word . I have two question for he . the carbon border adjustment mechanism leave UK refinery at a disadvantage when it come to the trade in international fuel . will the Government now consider include that trade in CBAM so that our UK refinery can be level peg with the rest of the world ? secondly , the UK now have only one refinery leave face the North sea . how many refinery be it okay for we to have when it come to maintain fuel security ? can the Minister be precise in tell I how many more can fall after Grangemouth and the one that we be discuss ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and his promise to hold we to account ; I look forward to that . he be right to reiterate the point that I make at the beginning about the importance of support for the worker , and we be call for the company ' s owner to do the right thing . as for the carbon border adjustment , we have look at three factor : the UK emission trading scheme , the carbon leakage risk , and the feasibility and effectiveness of inclusion . the refining sector do not currently meet all those criterion and be therefore not include in scope at present . we be look beyond 2027 and also consider whether there be more we can do in the short term , but clearly there be question about carbon leakage and other matter that we need to work through . that be partly why I get those in the sector together — the first time that have happen for 13 year , as it turn out — to talk about some of those issue , and about their own view . I be not go to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s second question with a specific number , because I do not think that be the right way to look at anything around business planning . what I can say be that refinery be incredibly important to this country . they be crucial part of our energy infrastructure , and they be important business , but business have to operate as successful business . while some refinery be absolutely do that , this one be clearly an example of where that have not happen . we will do everything we can to support the sector , but I be not go to put a specific number on how many refinery we should have in the future . whatever the specific reason for the company ' s failure , the fact of the matter be that the refining industry have be squeeze for decade as a result of government policy . when the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero stand up and demonise fossil fuel , it be hardly surprising that there be not investment in the refining sector . if we add the energy cost , the carbon taxis and all the other impediment , of course we will see business disappear . give the fact that we have see aluminium , steel , oil and now oil refinery disappear from the scene in the UK , do the Minister not understand that as long as we pursue this demented net zero policy , we will have regular announcement of job loss , great insecurity in our fuel supply , and the loss of heavy industry ? I do not agree with the right hon . gentleman on any of his assessment — it will not come as a huge shock to he or the House for I to say that . Aluminium and steel have not disappear from our industrial landscape in this country , but he be right to read out a number of thing that this Government inherit and have have to fix . we have 14 year of failure in industrial policy , and that be why we recently announce an industrial policy , which I be sure the right hon . Gentleman have read and support . we be not agnostic about our industrial future . it matter that we build thing in this country again , and we need a credible plan to do that . that be what we have outline in the industrial strategy , but I will make a wide point : the right hon . Gentleman be against all the investment in the clean power that will give we the energy security that he talk about , which will take we away from the volatility of fossil fuel . I repeat this point to he , as I have do before : that investment will deliver the re - industrialisation of our community , and will give certainty to the industry he talk about that bill will be under control and fall , rather than subject to the up and down of an international fossil fuel marketplace . that will drive forward economic growth and investment , and he oppose all of that . I understand that Lindsey oil refinery have go bust because it be uncompetitive because of high energy price , just month after Grangemouth close . we be witness the disappearance of the oil refining sector in this country because of high energy cost . we be witness the deindustrialisation of Britain because of high energy cost because of this Government ' s obsession with net stupid zero — that be the harsh reality . that be the simple fact , and thousand of job be disappear in front of our eye . the Minister accept that our energy cost be too high , and the Government promise that energy bill will come down , so could he tell the british people when ? I be always delighted to give the hon . Gentleman an opportunity for his soundbite . of course , the problem with soundbite be that one need some detailed , credible proposal underneath they , and they be in short order from the Reform party at the moment — it have no credibility whatsoever . he seem to have conclude a whole series of thing about why this refinery close . if he be party to information that the Government do not have , I would be grateful if he share it with we , because we have not conclude the investigation that the Secretary of State only launch today . the refinery have not make a profit since 2021 , so for the hon . gentleman to say that the situation be the responsibility of this Government ' s energy policy be quite misguided . the truth be that while the Reform party choose to oppose the investment that will drive forward job and opportunity across the country , include in his own constituency , we be determined to deliver that , because it be the right plan for re - industrialisation , for economic growth , for bring down bill , for energy security and for tackle the climate crisis , which he might not care about , but child across this country , who will have to face this planet in the future , do care about it . I thank the Minister for his response so far . I , too , stand in solidarity with worker at the Prax Lindsey site . whenever big company be responsible for the stewardship of our energy , and sometimes for its generation , I worry that the cost will be pass on to consumer . I be also worried that worker at the Tata Steel site in my constituency of Lagan Valley , who be currently engage in industrial action , have have their meeting cancel by management . do the Minister agree that these job be important and key to our transition for the future , and that those worker should not be leave behind ? that be a very powerful and well - put point that I be very happy to agree with . worker be right at the heart of our entire economy and will be at the heart of the transition in the future , and we need these skill to power the future industry that we be drive forward at the moment . we can not afford to lose they , and the hon . Lady be right to make that point . I do not quite pick up on the cancel meeting , but if she want to write to I , I will happily look into it . deprivation of Citizenship Orders ( effect during Appeal ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . of all the duty of Government , none matter more than keep our country safe . it be an awesome task , and one to which we attach the utmost significance , as this House and the public would expect . for people to flourish , they must have confidence that they be safe as they go about their life . for a society to excel , its value must be protect from harm and its law uphold . for a nation to thrive , its leader must be unrelenting in the pursuit of these critical aim . that be why the Prime Minister have make national security a foundation of the plan for change , and it be why we work around the clock with our partner in police and the security service to keep the United Kingdom and its people safe . in the face of a complex and evolve threat picture , it be essential that we keep the power , tool and measure available to we under constant review . where step be need to maintain the safety and security of our country , this Government will not hesitate to act . it be with that intention that we have bring forward this Bill , which , although narrow in its scope and intent , be vital to our ongoing effort to protect the United Kingdom . before I come to the detail of the Bill , I will provide a little bit of background . the British Nationality Act 1981 provide for the removal of an individual ' s british citizenship . this be also know as a deprivation of citizenship . deprivation be an important and effective tool to maintain public safety and preserve national security . it be use in two different situation : where citizenship have be obtain by fraud , or where deprivation be conducive to the public good , which mean that it be in the public interest to deprive a person of british citizenship because of their conduct and / or the threat that they pose to the United Kingdom . I accept the Minister ' s point that this be a very narrow Bill , but be he able to tell the House how many individual who currently have an appeal that have not yet be hear , and to whom this Bill will ultimately apply , have be deprive of their citizenship ? I be happy to do that . if my hon . friend bear with I for just a couple of moment , I will provide he with the information that he have request . in the latter category especially — where deprivation be conducive to the public good — deprivation be use against some of the most dangerous individual , include terrorist , extremist , and serious and organised criminal . someone in the UK who have be deprive of their british citizenship no long have any immigration status , step may be take to remove they from the UK , and they may be hold in an immigration detention in the interim . if they be overseas , they can not re - enter the UK use a british passport . in both circumstance , this be clearly an effective way to disrupt the threat pose by dangerous individual . first , I commend the Minister and the Government for bring forward this Bill . there be no doubt but that it be absolutely necessary . national security be paramount when consider revoke citizenship , as the Minister have outline , and the Bill be necessary to close a particular loophole and ensure that no person can bypass it . in Northern Ireland , many people claim both irish and UK citizenship , as they be able to . I understand that the Bill will make sure their UK citizenship can be revoke , but they will still have the right as an irish passport holder to travel to Northern Ireland . that be a very peculiar case . I be quite happy if the Minister want to come back to I on this , but I just want to make sure that no one can get around these measure by use an alternative passport — an irish passport or whatever it may be — and that Northern Ireland will be under the same law as the rest of the UK . I be grateful to the hon . member for his intervention , as I always be , and he be absolutely right that it be necessary to close this particular loophole , and that be the purpose of the Bill . he have raise a very interesting example , and I be grateful to he for say he be happy for I to come back to he . if he let I reflect on it far , I will respond to he when I make my concluding remark at the end of the debate . the Minister keep refer to a " loophole " . in fact , it have be an important principle of british justice that successful appeal equal vindication . this Bill be try to remove that presumption . that be not a loophole ; it be a basic judicial right on which we all rely . again , if the right hon . Gentleman bear with I , I will come to his specific point in a moment , and if he be not satisfied that I have respond adequately then , I be happy to give way again . I will make some progress . deprivation decision be make follow careful consideration of advice from official and lawyer , and in accordance with international law . each case be assess individually . decision to deprive , where it be conducive to the public good , be personally take by the Home Secretary . the power be use sparingly . it comply with the UN convention on the reduction of statelessness , and always come with a right of appeal . turn to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , let I give the House a sense of the frequency with which deprivation power be use . from 2018 to 2023 , on average 12 people a year be deprive of their citizenship where it be conducive to the public good . the available period for fraud - relate deprivation be slightly different , but from 2018 to 2022 there be an average of 151 case per year in that category . let I turn to the Bill , deal first with why it be require ; I hope this will go some way to respond to the point make by the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) . in a recent case , the Supreme Court decide that , if an appeal against a deprivation decision be successful , the initial deprivation order will have have no effect and the person will be consider as have continue to be a british citizen . this mean that people who have be deprive of british citizenship will automatically regain that status before further avenue of appeal have be exhaust by the Home Secretary . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make a little bit of progress , if I may . I will give way in a moment , but I want to address the point that have be raise . there be very good reason why the Government may wish to stop citizenship be regain until all appeal be determine , withdraw or abandon . these include to prevent someone who be outside the UK and who pose a risk to our national security from return when a further appeal may be uphold pende the Home Secretary ' s decision , or to prevent a person from renounce their other nationality and put themselves in a position where , if further appeal be successful , a further deprivation order would not be possible as it would unlawfully render they stateless . I thank the Minister for that explanation , but hypothetically there exist a circumstance in which the Home Secretary could deprive an individual of their citizenship , that individual could go for an appeal and have it reinstate , and this law would prevent they from retain that citizenship and the Department could simply choose not to appeal far . how do the Department ensure that the individual be then allow to access future appeal to try to regularise their citizenship status ? for reason that I do not understand , my hon . friend be progress a hypothetical scenario ; I do not know whether it be base on a particular case that he have in mind . I have not personally deal with such a set of circumstance , but I be happy to look at the matter he have raise . Southall Community Alliance in my constituency have long be a defender of human right . would the Minister confirm to the alliance that this Bill mean we will continue to use the power to deprive people of their citizenship very sparingly , and that there will be no change to the exist right of appeal or any widening of the reasoning under which we would deprive somebody of their citizenship in this country ? I can absolutely give my hon . friend and the organisation in her constituency that assurance . this Bill be very narrowly draw ; it have two clause . I be confused . if the individual in question have do something so bad that they have to be deprive of their citizenship , why would we not simply jail they ? why would we need to deprive they of their citizenship ? I hope my hon . friend hear the point I make a moment ago about how the Government have bring forward this legislation in response to a recent Supreme Court decision . essentially , an appeal against deprivation have result in a requirement for we to bring forward this clarification of the law . in response to she and my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) , this do not represent any widening of the exist arrangement . the right of appeal be completely unaffected by this legislation , which be incredibly narrowly draw . I be sure the Minister understand that due process be important and appreciate that the appeal process must be respect fully . he be intend make people temporarily stateless , so can he guarantee that the appeal process will be speed up and people will have an opportunity to have their case hear in a timeous manner , so they can have their case resolve , not hang over they for a long time ? the hon . member be absolutely right about the point of due process . I can say to he and to my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Southall that these power be use very sparingly . each and every individual case be decide on by the Home Secretary . I know that this Home Secretary have — and I be sure previous Home Secretaries have — take these responsibility incredibly seriously . decision be make carefully , on advice and in accordance with international law , and I be happy to give the hon . member and other that assurance . will the Minister give way ? let I make a bit of progress , and then I will happily give way again . the key point be that deprivation of citizenship on conducive ground be rightly reserve for those who pose a threat to the UK , or whose conduct involve very high harm . we be talk about some of the most serious case handle by any Government . where a loophole be identify in the process underpin it , it be the job of any serious and sensible Government to close it , and that be precisely what this Government will do . let I turn to the substance of the Bill . the House will note its brevity and narrow scope ; it contain just one substantive clause , focus solely on address the specific issue that have already be discuss . its primary objective be to protect the United Kingdom from dangerous people , which include those who pose a threat to our national security . the Bill will achieve that by prevent those who have be deprive of british citizenship from regain that status automatically when their appeal be successful , until further appeal have be determine . that will replicate the approach take on asylum and human right appeal ; in those case , the effect of an appeal be suspend up to the Court of Appeal and extend to appeal to the Supreme Court . to be clear , the Bill do not change any exist right of appeal or widen the reason why a person could be deprive of their citizenship . should an appeal mount on behalf of the Government prove unsuccessful , then where there be no possibility of further appeal , british citizenship would be reinstate with immediate and retrospective effect . the Minister keep refer to a loophole in justice . I do not understand why he can not see that " innocent until prove guilty " should apply in these case , as in any other . the idea that my win an appeal would not automatically mean I be innocent , as it do in every other case , seem a breach of a fundamental tenet . he be also not correct to say that the power be use sparingly . since 2010 , dozen of people have be deny citizenship on the say - so of the Home Secretary , despite there be nothing prove in court . that be what be different about these case . this be effectively something that be do in secret , behind closed door , without the fact necessarily be prove in any way . I have a lot of respect for the hon . Gentleman , but this be a case in which we should be even more reliant on due process , rather than try to legislate judge out of the room , as we be try to today . I know that the right hon . Gentleman will understand and appreciate , from his time as a Home Office Minister , the huge responsibility that the Government invest in the Home Secretary . the Home Secretary of the day have to make some incredibly difficult , finely balanced judgment . I hope that he would agree that we have to ensure that the Home Secretary , whoever they be , and whatever political party they be from , have the necessary power to make decision that safeguard the security of our nation . I be certain that he and I agree on that . the Bill essentially ensure that the Government can continue to do that , precisely as the Government whom he serve could . I thank the Minister for give way again . I be again completely confused . his specific example at the beginning aside , I still do not understand why , if the individual concern pose such a huge threat , other piece of legislation will not deal with they and keep the public safe . he also point to the fact that somebody could win their appeal and he could still wish to deprive they of citizenship . I want to understand the circumstance in which , after someone ' s appeal be uphold by a judge , the Minister would still wish to deprive they of their citizenship . forgive I , but I do not think I say that ; I think I say the opposite . I be very happy to discuss the matter far with my hon . friend . I hope she understand , and I hope I have make it clear , that the Bill be incredibly narrow in its scope . it seek to take we back to the legal position we be in a matter of month ago , prior to the judgment of the Supreme Court . it do not in any way undermine the right of appeal . if she have further concern , I be very happy to speak to she , but I can give she an assurance . she be very welcome to look at the Bill . it will not take she very long to read it . it be two clause , with a single substantive clause , specifically design to take we back to the legal position we be in just a few month ago . I hope she will be reassure by that . I have come to this debate without any prior knowledge of what be propose , so I be make this point as a result of what I have hear so far . be I right in think that what the Minister particularly have in mind be people with dual citizenship who might , for example , have go abroad to fight for a terrorist organisation , such as ISIS . there would , in such a case , be nothing forbid we from remove their british citizenship . if they come back , even if they could be convict of anything at all , they would be imprison for only a relatively short time , if at all , and then the security service would probably have to spend many year monitor they . be that the sort of scenario the Minister have in mind ? I be always grateful to the right hon . Gentleman . it be . perhaps he do not hear I make that point early , but I specifically say that one of the reason for the Bill be to prevent someone who be outside the UK , and who pose a risk to our national security , from return when a further appeal may be uphold by the Home Secretary ' s decision . he be right : that be a potential scenario that we have to guard against , and the Bill will enable we to do that , just as government could prior to the ruling of the Supreme Court . I hope he find that reassuring . as I set out , deprivation be one of the most powerful tool we have in our ongoing effort to protect the United Kingdom and its citizen from harm . for it to remain an effective part of our armoury , we need to legislate . before I finish , I pay tribute to our world - class law enforcement and intelligence agency . in turbulent and uncertain time , their tireless work to maintain stability and security at home have never be more crucial . they must be support at every turn , because the safety of our country stand apart from everything else we do . it be the cornerstone of our society , and ensure that safety be the primary purpose of everyone involve in public service , include in this House . it be a responsibility bear not just by those of we on the Government Benches , but by parliamentarian of all party . in that spirit , I urge member to support the Bill , which be require to preserve our national security . I commend it wholeheartedly to the House . I call the shadow Minister . keep our country safe be , and must be , the first duty of any Government . that come with decision and choice that government must take to keep their citizen , our country and our way of life safe . that be why we Conservative member support the Bill . it be much need to close a recently create loophole that must be address , as member from across the House should agree . the issue tackle by the Bill arise from the Supreme Court ' s decision in N3 v . Secretary of State for the Home Department 2025 . the Court hold that if a person successfully appeal against a deprivation order , or if the order be withdraw , they be consider never to have lose their british citizenship . that mean that even where the Secretary of State intend to challenge such a decision through further appeal , the person ' s citizenship be automatically restore in the interim . in practice , that could allow individual to return to the UK or renounce another citizenship or nationality before the Home Office have exhaust the appeal process . the Supreme Court judgment create two vulnerability : an unlocked door through which dangerous individual could return ; and an escape route , allow terrorist to regain citizenship , fly back to Britain and then renounce other nationality to become untouchable . the Government ' s own assessment identify specific risk : immediate re - entry attempt ; terrorist become stateless to block future action ; and foreign state interfere in our security measure . the Supreme Court ' s interpretation have create a situation that be unprecedented among our ally . the United States , Canada , Australia , France and the Netherlands all maintain revocation of citizenship throughout appeal . until the February ruling , Britain ' s framework operate effectively . now , because of the judgment , we face a unique vulnerability that no other comparable democracy tolerate . remove citizenship be quite rightly consider to be a serious step — one that be not take lightly or without thorough consideration . the seriousness of such decision be reflect in the fact that it be the Secretary of State who personally decide whether , base on public good and safety , an individual should be deprive of their british citizenship . the conservative party absolutely agree with the importance of have the power of deprivation of citizenship in order to preserve national security . it be a power that have be use sparingly but necessarily , with previous Home Secretaries rightly deprive more than 200 individual of their citizenship for be non - conducive to the public good . these individual risk undermine not only our security , but our society at large . british citizenship be a privilege , not an unconditional right . those who choose to shatter their bond of loyalty through terrorism or heinous organised crime forfeit their right to carry a british passport . that be why successive conservative government never shirk from use those power against terrorist plot to kill our citizen , or against member of the rochdale grooming gang for their sickening abuse of vulnerable child . that be why we be happy to support the Government in their attempt to close this loophole today . on this island , citizenship be an idea still in its infancy . when Great Britain be forge in the act of Union in 1707 , british people be not citizen , but subject , equal by virtue of their relationship to the monarch . only with the British Nationality Act 1948 be the concept of citizenship introduce into our law . I say that because , to my mind , we live in an age when political imagination be need more than ever . the recent experiment with politic as bureaucratic management be over , and we be now return to a politic with a long history in this country , forge the future through imagination and creativity , and exercise the collective power to change the value and system by which we be rule . at a moment like this , the relative infancy of citizenship in Britain should encourage we to pause to examine an idea we too often glide over ; and I hope that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , will forgive I for do just that . citizenship , like the motivation behind this Bill , be connect to one of the great challenge of our time : control our border and establish system of legal migration and asylum that be orderly , manage , humane and in our national interest . let I start with what my constituent in Makerfield tell I . they want to feel that they and their family belong in the community they live in , and they want their neighbour to feel that they belong there , too . that be why high street full of vape shop , dog muck and smash glass matter so much — they be a visible and constant reminder that other seem not to feel that they belong . when people treat their community with respect and love , they show that they feel that they belong . citizenship be belong on a big scale — a large we . it be the unchosen love we feel for our family , and even our town , project on to the story of a country and its people — the monarch ; the flag ; the mountain , hill and sea ; the industrial skyline of my home town in northern England , and the cobbled street of Cornwall . citizenship be a feeling , and , like any feeling , it carry responsibility . it be about not only what we be owe , but what we owe — responsibility , contribution , duty . we live in uncertain time , with Europe at war , the middle east in crisis and the world order be remade at breakneck speed . in such time , I believe we should celebrate and nurture citizenship far more than we do . now , we hide it away . we bury citizenship ceremony in dingy , bureaucratic corner of town hall , make the test for those who obtain it their capacity to pay thousand of pound for the privilege , not their commitment to our country and our value . for I , that be what citizenship should be about . I believe that citizen of this country should speak our language , know our history and share our commitment to fairness , tolerance , creativity and freedom . those who wish to become citizen must , in the end , be willing to stand shoulder to shoulder with their fellow citizen to defend that freedom in a world where it really be threaten . that bring I to the Bill . while I vote to remain , I do so after much thought . it be always true that the European Union change the capacity of elect representative to control border , and place clear constitutional constraint on what Parliament can do . however , I be always suspicious of those who blame force beyond Parliament for their failure to use its immense power . my constituent understand a simple truth about this country ' s constitution , which be that our politician can enact almost any law they please , and government with strong majority can do almost whatever they want . if they choose not to use those power , rarely be it because of some external force , whether that be Strasbourg or an arm ' s length body . instead , it be because they be frightened to use their own power , or lack the imagination to use it well . that be why I strongly support the measure in the Bill . it be not about make people stateless or subvert judge . instead , it be about do what this place be suppose to do , which be to assert the view of Parliament on what citizenship mean and how it should be enact . value citizenship require be clear about when and under what circumstance it should be take away . be an equal , full part of our society mean share our value . british citizenship affirm a person ' s part in our country , and there must be a way to remove those who threaten it , where they have dual citizenship . if the Home Secretary have decide in narrow and prescribe circumstance that it be in the public interest to remove a person ' s citizenship because they threaten our security , in my view , that be what should happen . of course , we must have an appeal process — no one must ever be above the law in this land . however , an appeal should not mean that the will of elect official be thwart . this be part of a broad agenda of this government that I strongly support : change the process of judicial review to ensure that the few can not hold up investment and infrastructure that benefit the many , and reform the european convention on human right to update human right for the 21st century , strengthen national security and enhance control over our border . the british people be feed up with politician pass the buck and blame someone else for their own failure to act . if we do not create a modern citizenship regime , reform the ECHR and judicial review , establish digital ID or , for that matter , radically reform the british state , it be nobody ' s fault but our own — we , the british political class . I , for one , be sick of politician throw up their hand and blame other for their own failure . I will always support a government who take responsibility for use Parliament to deliver the radical change that this country need , and that be why I support this Bill tonight . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the United Kingdom employ deprivation of citizenship order more frequently than almost any other country in the world . while it be right , of course , that the Government should have the mean to protect national security , both the current legislative framework and the Bill before we lack adequate provision for transparency in and systematic oversight of when , why and how the Secretary of State exercise the power to deprive individual of their citizenship . the Bill be design to ensure that if the Government take away someone ' s british citizenship , that person stay deprive of that citizenship while any appeal against the decision be ongoing . in practical term , if the Government deprive someone of their citizenship and that person appeal , the deprivation order remain in effect through the entire appeal period , mean that even if that person win an initial appeal , they will not get their citizenship back until all possible appeal from the Government — up to the high court — be finish , or the time limit for the Government to appeal have pass . the Home Secretary have describe the Bill as a necessary step to close a legal loophole — a description that have cause some debate already this evening . however , even if it be a loophole , that do not mean that these provision deserve any less scrutiny . the power to deprive an individual of their citizenship be an exceptionally significant one , which in any democratic society should be exercise only in the most limited and extreme circumstance , and should be subject to rigorous oversight by Parliament . we need to see proper reform of the whole citizenship deprivation process , not a piecemeal approach like we be see today . that principle have underpin Lib Dem policy on the deprivation of citizenship since 2019 , when it be most recently update . at that time , our party leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , set out clear and just principle that should govern its use : deprivation of citizenship should occur only in the most extreme circumstance , its use must never be political , and the legislation confer this power must be use with transparency and should be the subject of continuous and meaningful parliamentary scrutiny . the concern about transparency have be echo by the Joint Committee on Human Rights , a cross - House and cross - party body . early this year , it inform the Government that their current approach to the deprivation of citizenship fall short of the UK ' s human right obligation . the Committee call for significantly great oversight of power , include periodic independent review of their use and regular report to Parliament . the current regulation on the deprivation of citizenship already place far too much power in the hand of the Secretary of State . the requirement that the Home Secretary be " satisfied that deprivation be conducive to the public good " be too low a bar for the deprivation of citizenship . the liberal Democrats would therefore confine the power to deprive naturalise citizen of citizenship only where their citizenship have be obtain through fraud , false representation or concealment of material fact , or where they have do something seriously prejudicial to the vital interest of the United Kingdom and deprivation of citizenship be a proportionate response to such conduct and necessary for the national security of the United Kingdom . furthermore , we be firmly of the view that no individual should be render stateless by the Government ' s action except in case in which british citizenship be acquire by misrepresentation or fraud . the power confer by the Bill will transfer even great authority to the Secretary of State . it be therefore essential that those power be subject to ongoing rigorous scrutiny . I would welcome further detail from the Minister about the plan to ensure such oversight . for example , will the Government consider reform the deprivation of citizenship process to require the Secretary of State to apply to a court for permission to make a deprivation order , thereby oblige the Secretary of State to demonstrate that all the proper requirement have be meet ? will they commit to publish annual report detail the use of deprivation of citizenship power , and to facilitate a review of the exercise of these power by the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation at least once every three year ? finally , will the Minister confirm whether the Government intend to ratify the 1997 european convention on nationality , thereby introduce an additional layer of international scrutiny of the UK ' s use of these power , particularly where there be a risk of render an individual stateless ? the power to deprive individual of their citizenship engage fundamental right and must be exercise with appropriate safeguard , transparency and oversight . deprivation of citizenship must be the strict exception , never the norm . the Bill risk far concentrate excessive power in the hand of the Executive with too few safeguard to prevent error or abuse . the Liberal Democrats will continue to press for reform that ensure transparency , judicial oversight and proper parliamentary scrutiny . I agree that the most important role of any Government be to keep their citizen safe , but I do not believe that citizenship be a privilege ; I believe that it be a right . I also do not believe that the Minister answer my question adequately early . I want to understand why , if somebody be such a huge threat to this country , we can not deal with they under other legislation . if we can not , be there not other piece of legislation that require our attention ? I really worry , because it feel as if the Bill could turn due process on its head . we would not accept that in any other branch of justice . I hope the Minister will understand that , follow the Windrush scandal and the case of Shamima Begum , there be a sense of nervousness among many community when any legislation that touch on citizenship be bring before this House . that be for good reason : they worry that it disproportionately go against people of colour or people who be british - bear or long - settle whose heritage or ancestral link be outside Europe . the idea that their citizenship can be revoke because they could be eligible for another nationality be problematic . that be a fear that many people hold . I always worry about legislation that seem to circumvent the judiciary . I ask the Minister to consider these concern and , please , to answer my question . I understand that he be talk about a very specific case , but he need to be able to apply it to the many different example that member have put before the House . as he have hear many time , the deprivation of citizenship be an extremely serious thing . we want to make sure that it happen only in the most extreme case . I want to reflect for a moment on the title of the Bill . it could easily have be call something a bit more prosaic , such as the Revocation of Citizenship Bill or the Withdrawal of Citizenship Bill , but the notion of deprivation be far more evocative . when we talk about deprivation , it be often in the sense of go without something that be fundamental to our existence , such as food , shelter , water or liberty — the very thing that we rely on for life itself . I believe that " deprivation " in this context be flawed terminology , as it seem to equate citizenship with an essential right . I apologise if I be damage his future career by say so , but I very much agree with the hon . member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) . citizenship be not a right ; it be a privilege . to those who receive that privilege , through our immigration system or otherwise , we must be clear that it come with duty and responsibility . we welcome those who come to the United Kingdom lawfully , ready to participate in the freedom that we offer and equally ready to take on the obligation that go hand in hand with they . but when an individual who have have the privilege of citizenship bestow on they use it to threaten our national security , that privilege should rightly be revoke until the Secretary of State have exhaust all avenue of appeal in regard to his or her decision . citizenship of our country be to be prize , not abuse — and not reduce to some sort of transactional process or tick - box citizenship test . the " Life in the UK " test be well worth a look , for those who have not see the poverty of knowledge and scrutiny that it require . we should not be defend the importance of citizenship only at the point at which a person have it remove . everyone , whether they be a citizen through birth or through our immigration system , should receive an education in how precious the covenant between country and individual be to promote understanding and appreciation of our value system and the fundamental principle that underpin it : tolerance and respect , the right to equality before the law , the duty of loyalty to the United Kingdom — or , as an absolute minimum , a deep and abide respect and commitment to the convention and value that make up the british way of life — and , of course , the right to freedom of enterprise and aspiration . it be important not only to create wealth and opportunity , but to look at how our talent can be harness by make a contribution within our family and community , whether that be through perform care obligation for young child and mould they as the citizen of the future , care for elderly or dependent family member , or lead local charity or community or faith group . those value , and the right and duty through which they be live out , form part of our social contract — the tie that bind we as community , society and nation . they have support our past flourish and , if re - embrace , will also secure our renewal . those who reject these value and seek to undermine and destroy they should not be citizen of our country . although I agree with the measure contain in the Bill , my challenge to the Government be to ensure that respect for our national value and the right and duty that underpin they be also at the heart of their forthcoming reform of our immigration system . as I hope the Minister know , I have devote much of my adult life to keep individual , neighbourhood , town , city and indeed the entire country safe , but I have to confess that I have never be entirely comfortable with the deprivation of citizenship regime . unfortunately , his Bill , which he be try to pass off as an innocuous correction , have spark that sense of unease . the reason I be uneasy be that , although the objective that the Minister propose be laudable , I believe that the cost to our sense of self and the corrosiveness to our sense of citizenship and to the judicial process be perhaps too high . I will not detain the House for too long , but I want to raise three point . we have cover they to a certain extent , but they be worth reiterate . first , the Minister ' s sense be that the Supreme Court have create a loophole ; my view be that it have correct an anomaly . it have long be a tenet of the protection with which the judicial process provide I as an individual that an appeal equal vindication and that it be for my accuser to appeal , on the basis that I remain innocent , even prior to the first action that be take against I . this regime will reverse that . the second alarming point be that the legislation be retrospective . as the hon . member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) ask , there may be a number of case go through the court for which this law will have a highly prejudicial impact . the Government be effectively move the goalpost mid - litigation to get what they want . that , again , be not something we would normally tolerate , and it be a further development of the power . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for give way . I always enjoy our debate . he say that the Government be move the goalpost , but do he accept that we be ensure that we have the same power to deprive that he have when he be a Home Office Minister ? the Minister be quite right — not that I ever exercise those power . but as I say , in my view the Supreme Court have correct an anomaly that the previous Government take advantage of . yes , absolutely , hand up , they do — I be not say that be correct . he be propose that in the face of a Supreme Court decision that he do not like , he will change the law to say that the court be in effect wrong and that the fundamental right on which the Supreme Court have decide — we should not forget that the court basically decide our right within the legal framework — be somehow not to be tolerate . I have some sympathy with my right hon . friend ' s argument , but surely the effect of this change will kick in only if , in the end , the Government ' s appeal succeed . therefore , it will be the case that the court previously be wrong ; otherwise , the Government ' s appeal against its decision will not succeed . my right hon . friend be exactly right . however , it do mean that the state can render someone stateless by inaction , because it can take many year for case to work their way through the court . it be also , as I say , highly prejudicial , because it mean that for the duration of the legal action that person will not be able to come to the UK and therefore will have to litigate from outside our border . I grateful to my hon . friend for give way again . as I say in my first intervention , I be new to this whole debate , but I think I hear from the Minister that the idea be for this measure to stand only until the Government appeal be resolve or the Government run out of time to appeal . how long would that period be ? I do not see how that would put thing off for the inordinate amount of time that my right hon . friend suggest . as I be sure my right hon . friend know , there be various layer of appeal that can be take , right up to the Supreme Court . the Bill say that , throughout that period , as long as the Government continue to pursue appeal , the person remain deprived of their citizenship , rather than what the Supreme Court be say , which be that if the person win any one of those appeal , they immediately become in effect innocent , and their citizenship be restore as if it be never remove in the first place . that be in the same way as if , be I accuse of a crime and find innocent and the prosecutor decide to appeal my conviction , I would remain innocent until that appeal be hear and decide against I . if it be appeal beyond that , I would remain innocent then still . the Government be attempt to revert to the erroneous situation as determine by the Supreme Court . in my view , they be move the goalpost on an individual who frankly seem to have win a case fair and square in our high court in the land . finally , I want to raise a more fundamental issue about this entire process . call I an old romantic , but my view be that once you be a citizen , you be a citizen . once you be in , you be in . unfortunately , the development of this power over the last however many year since the 1981 Act , which bring it in , have create two class of citizen in this country . my hon . friend the Member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) , who speak for the opposition — she be no long in her place — say , " citizenship be a privilege , not an unconditional right . " that be not true . it be an unconditional right for I as a freeborn Englishman of two english parent go back I do not know how many year . I have no claim on citizenship anywhere else . it be my absolute , undeniable , unequivocal right to have citizenship in this country , and it can not be remove from I by any mean whatsoever . that be not true of my child . I be married to a canadian citizen , so they have a claim on canadian citizenship . if the Home Secretary so decide , they could have their citizenship remove . that be also true of every jewish citizen of the United Kingdom , who have a right to citizenship in Israel . there will be million of british people of south asian origin who feel that they have a second - class citizenship . this law apply only to certain of our citizen . it do not apply to I . I do not know whether it apply to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . perhaps it be make other hon . member think about whether it apply to they . while the Minister have be clear that we should trust he and have give we lot of undertaking , we do not make the law on the basis of a Minister we like , trust and respect ; we make it on the basis that the law might fall into the hand of somebody we be not that keen on and who may be more cavalier with the power bestow upon they . as the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) , who speak for the Liberal Democrats , say , we be a country that use this power disproportionately more than any other western country . we have be free in our use of it , despite the fact that Minister after Minister have stand in the House and say , " we use it sparingly . " we do not . dozen and dozen of people have be exclude , and we have to be honest about why . sometimes it have be for safety , but sometimes , on balance , it have be to please the paper — because it look good and play well . we never ask ourselves about the cost of that to our sense of cohesion . the hon . member for Makerfield give a lyrical and poetic view of citizenship , but if a large proportion of our fellow citizen believe that they have a second class of that citizenship — if some can say , " I be undeniably and unchallengeably a citizen , but you be not , so watch yourself " — what do that do to society ? do the right hon . member believe just by look at I and my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) next to I that the legislation could apply to people who look like we ? the hon . Lady make the point powerfully . I do not know , but she do . this legislation leave people from minority background , second or third - generation immigrant , and those like my child who be of two parent of different nationality , with a lingering sense of doubt about how secure they be in this nation . the right hon . Member be portray the United Kingdom as an exception to a global rule in which citizenship be a straightforward binary and a right . I be of jewish ancestry and have a right to claim citizenship in Israel , though I have not . my wife be american and our child be dual citizen , so this very much pertain to I . I gently point out that the United States have a similar regime . if a naturalise citizen in America break certain law and be demonstrate to be a national security threat to the United States , they too can have their naturalise citizenship revoke . it be not accurate to paint the United Kingdom as a complete exception to a rule in which citizenship , whether by birth or by naturalisation , be treat differently by the state , by the court and by the legislature . I understand the hon . member ' s point , but I be afraid that I be not interested in comparison with the United States . I would hold we to a high bar . we be a more ancient country that should have , as he rightly point out , a well develop sense of how we build a cohesive society . I would challenge whether the United States can be hold up as a paragon of virtue on societal cohesion or whether actually it be a divided country , with part of that division come from a sense that there be first , second and maybe even third - class citizen there . at the moment , it be go through a period of challenge as to what it mean to be a United States citizen . we have see litigation under — it have slip from my mind . it start , " we the people " . [ hon . member : " the constitution . " ] that be the word — forgive I ; a senior moment . the United States be see legal challenge under its constitution on precisely those ground of what it mean to be a citizen . I do not want to detain the House for much long , but we need to think carefully about the impact that this regime have beyond the people whom it target . we may say of case like Shamima Begum that what she do be completely appalling and she deserve to be punish . obviously , the decision be take to revoke her citizenship . I be not sure whether that be the right thing to do . I do think she need to be punish . in many way , I would rather she have be bring to this country , and punish and jail here . she be nobody else ' s problem but our . as I say , by promote this regime I think we undermine the value of what it mean to be a british citizen because , once acquire , citizenship should be a right . Civis Romanus sum . it should mean something . it be not the key to the executive lavatory , to be remove when you lose the privilege and right of your position ; it be something that you acquire that be fundamentally in you once you be in the club , and we should be wary of the wide impact if we decide to remove it . I have one final suggestion for the Minister . I realise that I be in a minority , and the House be not go to comply ; he be go to get his legislation . however , I ask he to think carefully about the value of the judiciary in this process . would it be possible to amend the process such that , when an appeal be win by an individual and the Government wish to continue to deprive that person of citizenship , the permission of the judge should be seek for that , pende a further appeal ? the Government will have to seek permission to appeal in all circumstance ; I ask the Minister to consider whether they should have to seek also permission to maintain the condition of a deprivation of citizenship , as part of that permission to appeal . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for his work and approach , today and every day . it be a pleasure to work across from he , against our enemy and in defence of our great country and its people . sometimes , fulfil our duty to keep our country safe mean take action that we might otherwise wish to avoid , but it be completely right that deprive people of their citizenship under certain circumstance be a tool available to the Home Secretary . those who hate our country and what it stand for , and work against our interest , should not be able to hide behind a british passport . membership of a nation do not just imply right ; it also confer responsibility . when british citizen engage in terrorism , support for terrorism or serious organise crime , they clearly disregard those responsibility . it be clearly true that we can not deprive such people of citizenship in all case , particularly give that a worrying number of extremist be now homegrown , but where we can , we should . if we accept that the deprivation of citizenship be an important tool in keep our country safe , we should also accept that this power should be exercise pragmatically , with the safety of the british people come first . allow potentially dangerous individual to retain their citizenship while appeal be ongoing be absurd . this be not a power exercise lightly by any Government , and the idea that dangerous people might escape accountability by exploit procedure be frightening . the current system also open up the worrying possibility of dual citizen renounce their non - uk citizenship during the appeal process , make it subsequently impossible to remove their british citizenship without render they stateless , so , as my hon . friend the Member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) say early , we support the Bill , which will ensure that deprivation of citizenship order will continue to have effect until the entire appeal process be complete . the hon . member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) rightly place the Bill in its wide context , both historically and politically , and I agree with he on the desperate need to restore our break border and make british citizenship extremely precious . he speak of the citizenship ceremony . my grandmother swear allegiance to the King when she become a citizen , and talk of it often . I know that it be one of the proud moment of her life . the hon . member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) say that she consider citizenship a right rather than a privilege . on that , I be afraid that she and I disagree . as my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) rightly say immediately afterwards , citizenship be to be prize , not abuse . my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) be right to point out that there be a balance to be strike . deprivation have a cost to those who be deprive . I say that the cost in the scenario in which the Home Secretary may exercise deprivation power be more than worth pay to protect this country and her people . similarly , and more specifically to the Bill , the cost of maintain a deprivation until the conclusion of the process be also a price well worth pay . I say that as a british citizen who , unlike my right hon . friend , be entitle to several other citizenship . finally , the Bill be not just a good example of decisive action take in the interest of national security ; it be also a good example of Parliament ' s role in our political system . in this country , the main job of the judiciary be to interpret and apply Parliament ' s will . unlike in other country , judge be not the high safeguard of our constitution . in Britain , that task be give to , and must remain with , the british people themselves . when the judiciary make a decision that run contrary to the will of Parliament , either as it be or as it be today , Parliament be perfectly entitle to overturn that decision ; in fact , it must do so if our political system be to work as it should . in , say , the United States , the Supreme Court ' s job involve work out the intention of long - dead statesman . that be not the case here in the United Kingdom , where Parliament be a living , breathe institution , embody the sovereignty of the british people . it can clarify its will or issue new guidance . that kind of institutional dialogue be healthy ; indeed , it be the lifeblood of our politic . we therefore welcome not only the specific measure before we today but the approach take by the Government on this matter . we have see Ministers and Government Members behave as if the law be an entity unto itself — an authority above all other , entirely separate from the political process . that could not be further from the truth . we must never forget that the supreme authority in this country be Parliament , and that the job of Parliament be to legislate in the interest of the british people . when the legal process produce a result that be not in the interest of the british people , not only be this House well within its right to overturn it ; it must do so . it be a pleasure to follow the shadow Minister . I thank all right hon . and hon . member who have speak . as I mention right at the beginning , the Bill be extremely narrow in its scope and intent , focus solely on close a loophole in the exist deprivation of citizenship process . as I outline , the Supreme Court decide in a recent case that if an appeal against a deprivation decision be successful , or a deprivation of citizenship order be withdraw , that initial order will have have no effect and the person will be consider as have continue to be british . that mean that people who have be deprive of british citizenship will automatically regain that status before further avenue of appeal have be exhaust . the Bill will therefore protect the UK from people who pose a threat to our national security by prevent those who have be deprive of british citizenship and be overseas from return until all appeal have be determine . it will also prevent a person who have be deprive of citizenship on the ground that it be conducive to the public good from seek to undermine deprivation action while an appeal in their case remain ongoing by renounce their other nationality and put themselves in a position whereby a deprivation order would render they stateless . the Bill do not change any exist right of appeal or widen the reason for which a person could be deprive of their citizenship . it be crucial that our world - class law enforcement and intelligence agency have the necessary power to protect the public and secure our border . let I reflect briefly on the contribution make during the debate . I be very grateful to the Opposition Front Benchers for their support and their speech . it be always my intention that national security should never be a party political issue . that be the basis on which I approach it in opposition , and that be the basis on which I approach it in government . I be very grateful for the constructive and reasonable way in which they have present their point today . I be also grateful to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) , for her contribution . she take the opportunity , as be absolutely her right , to call for wide reform , and she raise specific concern about the process and about transparency . the Government believe that the measure in the Bill be necessary and proportionate , but I listen carefully to the point that she make about transparency . the Government believe that there be sufficient oversight and transparency of the use of the deprivation power . the Home Office publish datum in relation to the number of deprivation of citizenship order , and the independent chief inspector of border and immigration have the remit to review the power . the ICIBI have conduct independent review of the deprivation power , with report publish relatively recently , in 2018 and in 2024 . I also want to take the opportunity to far reassure the hon . Lady that deprivation decision be make follow careful consideration of advice , both from official and from lawyer and , under this government — I be sure it be the case under previous government as well — strictly in accordance with international law . each case be assess individually by the Home Secretary , and decision to deprive , where it be conducive to the public good , be take by the Home Secretary , and the Home Secretary alone . the power be use sparingly , it comply with the UN convention on the reduction of statelessness and it always come with the right to appeal . my hon . friend the Member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) make a thoughtful speech , include about what citizenship mean , and I know that the House will be grateful for the contribution that he make this evening . my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) raise a number of specific concern , and I want to do my good to respond to they . the deprivation of citizenship on conducive ground be rightly reserve for those who pose a threat to the UK or whose conduct involve a very high harm . deprivation on fraud ground be for those who obtain their citizenship fraudulently , so be never entitle to it in the first place . decision be make follow careful consideration of advice from official and — in respect of conducive deprivation — lawyer , and in accordance with international law , include the UN convention on the reduction of statelessness . the Government take these matter very seriously , and I hope that my hon . friend will understand that we have to ensure that we have the power necessary to keep the public safe . I hope the Minister understand the assurance I have be ask for . this will be the third time I have ask . I genuinely want to understand why someone who be such a danger to our public can not be deal with under other piece of legislation . at the moment it seem that we can not even stop they come into the country because of the exist legislation . he also keep say that the Bill do not widen the situation under which people can be deprive of their citizenship , but it do ; it do so on the basis that someone can win an appeal and then be tell that they be not go to be give their citizenship back because the Government have further right of appeal . the Bill do widen that situation . we genuinely need those assurance and an understanding as to why such dangerous people can not be deal with under other piece of legislation . I do not agree with my hon . friend ' s second point . this Bill have be very carefully and narrowly draft , and I do not think it do the thing that she have say it do . as to why the Government would seek to use these power , I hope she understand that we will do everything we possibly can — as I be sure the previous Government do — to keep the public safe and protect they from high - harm individual such as extremist , terrorist , and serious and organised criminal , and that this Government , as be the case with the previous Government , consider that this be an appropriate , necessary and proportionate way in which to do that . I hope that the public and the House will understand why we be progress in the way that we be . the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) make a very thoughtful speech . he have clearly think about this matter long and hard , and he have do the House a great service with his contribution . I want to reflect briefly on the contribution make by the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) . I enjoy debate these matter with he , and I be genuinely grateful for his contribution . he suggest at one point that he might be an old romantic . I couldn ' t possibly comment — but I could possibly say that he have advance some interesting point . they be not point that the Government agree with , and I hope he do not mind I say that they be not point that the majority of member of this House agree with , but he have ensure that this debate have be rich than it would otherwise have be have he not make those contribution . I hope that the right hon . Gentleman acknowledge that the Government be act in good faith in order to ensure that we be well place to keep the country safe . I know that he be not satisfied with the measure that we have bring forward and do not agree with they . that be absolutely his right . I respect his right to make the case in the way that he have , but I would ask he briefly to consider an alternative scenario in which the Government of the day , regardless of their political party , do not put in place the necessary power to keep the public safe . one can only imagine the criticism that any Government would face , be they not to do that . I can imagine that situation , but I have be an enthusiastic supporter of lot of power to protect the public from people from whom the Minister can not remove citizenship . for example , terrorism prevention and investigation measure , or tpim — previously control order — be specifically design to put restriction on individual who present a danger to the country but from whom the Government could not remove citizenship . if those measure be good enough for those people , why be they not good enough for the people on whom the Minister be confer second - class citizenship ? he must see that this legislation apply only to certain of our citizen , and that they be not the only one who present a danger to this country . again , I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his contribution . I do not doubt that if he and I and other sit in a room and seek to design a system , we probably would not end up with the one that we have , but I hope he understand that , give the constraint on parliamentary time and the bandwidth of Government , we be seek to go back to the position that we have a number of month ago — I know that he do not agree with it then — to ensure that we have the power that we need so that we be well place to respond in the circumstance that I have describe . I want briefly to come back to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , because I give he an assurance that I would do so . I can say to he that a dual british - irish national could be deprive of british citizenship and exclude by the Home Secretary . an irish national who have be exclude from the UK would then require leave to enter . I hope that respond to his point . this Bill , although short in length , will have an important impact on the safety of those in our nation . it will ensure that those who pose a threat to the safety and security of our country do not have their citizenship restore until all appeal have be determine . the safety and security of those in our country be the foundation on which everything else be build and , as I have remark in this House before , for this Government nothing will matter more . with that , I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . deprivation of Citizenship Orders ( effect during Appeal ) bill : Programme Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Deprivation of Citizenship Orders ( effect during Appeal ) bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . ( 3 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 5 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . Rare Cancers Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . I beg to move , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Rare Cancers Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( 1 ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State , and ( 2 ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for bring forward this important Bill . the Government support it , and be commit to make a real difference for patient with rare cancer . just a quick one — I have hope to speak to the Minister before she come to the Dispatch Box . in Northern Ireland , rare cancer account for a quarter of all cancer case in both man and woman . will there be extra money set aside for Northern Ireland , where health be devolve , to deal with rare cancer ? it be not just those who have rare cancer who have to deal with they ; their family do , too . I ask that question of the Minister genuinely and respectfully . as the hon . Gentleman say , health be devolve . I be happy to write to he with the detail of how we expect this private Member ' s Bill to be implement by the devolved government . question put and agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , exit the European Union that the draft Marking of Retail Goods Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 5 June , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sorcha Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Andrew George Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Frank McNally Ed Miliband Calum Miller Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Simon Opher Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Lisa Smart David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Claire Young Martin McCluskey Anna McMorrin Gregory Campbell Alex Easton Carla Lockhart Jim Shannon Jim Allister Sammy Wilson the House divide : Ayes 315 , Noes 4 . question accordingly agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services and Markets that the draft Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ( Regulated Activities etc . ) ( amendment ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 19 May , be approve . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . Education Committee Ordered , that Patrick Spencer be discharge from the Education Committee and Sir James Cleverly be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) National Security Strategy ( Joint Committee ) order , that Sir Julian Lewis be discharge from the Joint Committee on National Security Strategy and Sir Gavin Williamson be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Procedure Committee Ordered , that Richard Holden be discharge from the Procedure Committee and Sir Gavin Williamson be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Committee of Public Accounts order , that Rebecca Paul be discharge from the Committee of Public Accounts and Blake Stephenson be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - Disability support cut I rise to present a petition on cut to disability support , far to an online petition sign by more than 77 , 000 people . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that a 2 % wealth tax on asset over £ 10 million could generate an additional £ 24 billion per year , considerably more than the £ 5 billion the government plan to save by cut key financial support for disabled people . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the request of the petitioner and consider the resource benefit of wealth taxis as an alternative to cut disability support . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003086 ] Road Safety Powers : Parish and Town Councils Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) before I begin my speech , let I pay my respect to my constituent Curtis Davies , who be a resident of Shildon and work for Durham police , who sadly die yesterday in difficult circumstance . I know that he will be miss by his colleague in the police force and by his family . my thought and prayer be with they all . like many in this place , I spend a lot of my time knock on door and listen to resident . one thing that have never cease to impress I about the people in Bishop Auckland be the way that they love their community and neighbourhood , and the pride that people take in the little thing such as the physical appearance and beauty of the local environment , but also the safety of our road . I want to use this debate to highlight some example of where people in village and town across my constituency be feed up and frustrated . they feel disempowere by the number of time they ask for simple change to road safety to enhance their community , only to be knock back by bureaucrat who apparently know well than the people live on those street what their experience be . rise — rise — I give way to my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) . I thank my hon . friend for take my intervention so soon , and apologise to my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) . I pay tribute to Roydon and Hastingwood speed watch for the work it do . one issue I come across when people in my constituency talk to I about road safety be that when they ask for change to be make , the county council say , " there have be no fatality ; there have be no accident on this stretch of road . " surely we need to be proactive , not reactive , with these problem . I hear that same anecdote far too often for it not to be true . People be tell , " due to a lack of fatality , we can not intervene . " that be not how we risk assess . we do not wait for someone to die before we ascertain that there be a risk . highway safety be something that I have be work on for a number of year , particularly with the community of the a167 in Durham , Lowes Barn Bank , Toll House Road and Neville ' s Cross . in particular , Shincliffe have 40 % of all fatality and road accident in City of Durham . People have be tell again and again that nothing can or will be do , despite the fact that other area with few road accident be see road improvement . do my hon . friend agree that one of the big barrier to road improvement in County Durham be the arbitrary and rather baffle decision of County Durham council highway department ? I agree 100 % with that assessment . it seem that it do not really matter who be in power ; councillor do not seem to be listen to either . I think it be a problem for democracy that so many people be say the same thing , only to be ignore over and over again , so I welcome that intervention . I be grateful that so many colleague have attend this debate , which be testament to the frustration we all feel . the experience that my hon . friend express be probably one that we will hear several time . indeed , I have deliberately keep my speech short so that I can take as many intervention — [ interruption . ] I will give way . I thank my hon . friend for invite an intervention . in my constituency , road safety be a huge concern of local people , despite the fact that London borough have the power to set speed limit — indeed , most of Ealing Southall be a 20 mph zone . however , the council do not have the power to enforce the speed limit ; only the Metropolitan police have that power . do my hon . friend agree it be important that we consider whether council that already have the right to set speed limit should also have the power to enforce they ? that be an excellent point that I have not consider , so I will tack it on to the end of my speech . I welcome that intervention . there will be a lot of intervention tonight , but I say to the Minister that perhaps we could have some sort of deal whereby if she give in to my demand 30 minute in , we will not take the debate to the full two and half hour that we could have . rise — how could I not ? I commend the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . we do not have parish council in Northern Ireland , but council have an important role . they be not the enforcer of road safety like the police , but they have an active role . it be clear that local knowledge — the thing the hon . Gentleman be refer to — be imperative when consider wide - range road safety issue . do he agree that join - up thinking between branch of Government be essential to improve safety and ensure that people power always win ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s point about join - up thinking . I will make some brief progress in my speech , because at the heart of what I be ask for be for town and parish council to be listen to . I meet they so often , and they be the most local level of government and the close to people who live in those neighbourhood . time and again they ask for the same basic thing and they be not listen to . I will give some example . the village of High Grange in my constituency have two 60 mph country lane that run either side of it . I be speak tonight on behalf of the child who ask , " Mam or dad , can I go across the road to the park ? " , but whose parent do not feel safe let they cross that 60 mph lane to get there . I speak also for the pensioner on the other side of the same village who want to get across the road to the allotment , but who do not feel safe crossing over . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate . Chris and Nicole in my constituency lose their daughter Beccy nearly 18 year ago . on lose she , they discover a postcode lottery for bereavement service . some police service provide they , but some do not . it be important that we discuss road safety measure , but I hope my hon . friend will agree that it be also important that we end that lottery , so that every family who lose someone in a road traffic accident have the bereavement support they should get . it be difficult to disagree with that excellent intervention . another example be Howden - le - Wear , where Hargill Road come down a fast lane . I speak to a gentleman there recently who tell I that he no long feel safe go out in his electric scooter and go up the road , because of the speed at which traffic come hurtle down the bank . People there have be ask for traffic enforcement measure , as be mention in early intervention . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this important debate , and we can see how many people this issue affect across the country . on speeding in our community , do he agree with my sentiment , from my time as a borough councillor in Amber Valley for Kilburn , Denby , Holbrook and Horsley , about the fantastic work parish council do through the speed watch scheme ? that can be integral to ensure that county council or unitary council listen and collect datum , which can be so important when make change in our local community to speed limit and to important road safety measure . I welcome that intervention . parish councillor do sterling work , and all who volunteer and give their time for speed watch scheme be make life that bit well for people in their community . nonetheless , people get frustrate when often that data be not take where they want it to be take . in the village of Hamsterley in my constituency , the traffic through to Hamsterley forest on the weekend be often a cause of concern . villager there have ask if the village could be make a 20 mph zone , which sound to I like a reasonable request . in fact , they have often ask I , " why can ' t we be more like Wales ? " Welsh village be allow to be 20 mph zone , and my constituent get frustrated that they do not have that option . on that point , why should they be like Wales , when they could be like Edinburgh ? will my hon . friend join I in pay tribute to former councillor Lesley Hinds ? one could never meet a more humble Labour councillor , but back in 2016 , she roll out Edinburgh ' s city - wide 20 mile per hour zone . in 2022 , independent peer - review research show that slight injury have reduce by 37 % , serious injury have reduce by 33 % and fatality have reduce by 23 % . through the leadership of one person , life have be save . do he agree that we should be use such measure right across the country ? that important datum give force to my argument . we be not talk not about kill people ' s joy but enhance joy in their life so that they feel safe to walk in the road in their village . in South Derbyshire , we have create a network between my office and that of parish council across the constituency . several parish council have raise the issue of road safety , from Repton all the way down to Overseal . they have carry out community speed watch , and make recommendation in a report about how we can make our road safe , include by have a crossing right across the road from a school , improve safety on road where haulage vehicle go up and down despite the fact that those road be unsuitable , and use variable speed limit . do my hon . friend agree that those parish councillor be the good people to make recommendation about what should be carry out in their local community ? that be exactly the point I be make and I welcome my hon . friend ' s intervention . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for raise this important matter . on a more serious note , I offer my deep condolence to two people who lose their life in a road accident in Reading recently , although I do not want to comment on that because it be under police investigation . I commend my hon . friend for the work that he be do . many small unitary local authority , such as the borough council in my town , have a great deal of local knowledge , yet they be often hold back because they be unable to enforce traffic offence , such as speeding , even when 20 mile per hour zone or other zone have be introduce . as my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) say , it would be wonderful if that power could be delegate to they rather than to the police , who be very busy ? my hon . friend make an excellent intervention . I have mention High Grange and Hamsterley — I have only get to " h " on my list , so I have well move on . the resident in Coundon Gate , in my constituency , have to put up with 60 mph traffic driving past just 2 metre from their front window , and they have ask for traffic calm . I thank my hon . friend deeply for secure this debate . the issue come up in the first visit that I make in my constituency , to Walton Hall academy , which be on a 60 mph stretch of road . parent find it extremely stressful take their child with special educational need and disability to and from school . the young people there be campaign to get the speed limit change , but they be hit brick wall with the difficulty in get highway authority to listen . do my hon . friend agree that community school and young people should be support by highway authority and listen to on such matter ? my hon . friend make an excellent point about community where there be school . Toft Hill primary school , in my constituency , be on the A68 , and child have to cross the road in difficult condition — the school lose its lollipop person who have be help the child to cross . my hon . friend be be very generous with his time . as hon . member have say , it be a testament to the importance of the issue that we be all here this evening . the Minister can relax as on this occasion I will not talk about the A1 — I will in future — but about the northern bypass in Morpeth , which have a 60 mph zone . in 2023 , labour party activist and the local parish council make a case to the county council that a safe crossing be necessary , but the issue have not move on . do my hon . friend agree that it be local people , local parish council and local town council who understand their circumstance good , and that they should be listen to and give more power in this regard ? on the matter of parish council , I recently meet member of Staindrop parish council , who have be ask for more than a decade to have two crossing point at the entrance and exit to their beautiful village , which be on the main road between Bishop Auckland and Barnard Castle . traffic often do not drop its speed down to 30 mph . pensioner in Staindrop have say that they feel put off from do something as simple as cross the road to attend a social function because of their fear of cross that road . it be a travesty that Staindrop parish council can ask for the same thing over and over again , but the highway authority just keep say no . as a proud Cornish MP , I be as strong an advocate as anyone for the role of parish and town council . they have their eye and ear on the ground , and understand where there be the most serious need for crossing , as my hon . friend eloquently describe in his constituency . do he agree that there be huge need for a crossing in Nansledan in my constituency , where the new Newquay strategic road have be build with little consideration for the flow of traffic come into the village ? I do not know if my hon . friend need a crossing in his constituency because I be not local to that area . but I will tell hon . member who do know : his parish council and the people who live there . if that be what they be ask for , they should be listen to . my hon . friend be be incredibly generous with his time . the point he be advance be so important : this be not just about the safety of people , although that be really important . just this week , we see a horrible incident in my constituency where some goose be run over . that be a very traumatic incident for resident . do he agree it be so vital that this Government set out a new national road safety strategy ? do he agree it be important that they listen to local voice from community such as his and mine as they draw up that vital piece of work ? we be all here and have all stay late because we be the voice of the people we represent , and clearly they be all tell we the same thing . it fall to the Government to do something about the challenge we be raise tonight . let I quickly mention two or three other place , because I love my constituent , but they be jealous — I know that I will get grief if I neglect to mention place such as Fleet Street in Bishop Auckland , where there be just no road marking at a four - way stop and people do not know who to give way to . that be a regular source of concern for parent in the Cockton Hill area . I will mention Stanley Crook and a lot of the hilltop village where the traffic just do not want to slow down as people pursue their journey through residential area . let I also mention Kinninvie , where two year ago a car crash into someone ' s dining room — the family be lucky not to be in the dining room at the time . that be an area where for donkey ' s year people have say it be a dangerous junction . People know that , and eventually a serious accident happen . I thank my hon . friend for bring this really important debate to the House . in my community there be an area call Griffydam , and resident there have be try for year and year to have something happen to their local community . one of the interesting thing be the benchmark — local knowledge go over and above those . not a lot of the accident get report nowadays . do my hon . friend agree that we need to look at local knowledge , which go much far than report accident and incident ? that be an excellent point about local knowledge . I think back to High Grange , which I talk about , where only the local people understand the importance of the allotment and the park and the difficulty of cross the road . both those place be just outside the village , on the other side of the main road . it be a testament to my hon . friend ' s popularity that we be all here this evening support he on a really important issue . whether it be Bambury Street in Sandford Hill , Newcastle Lane in Penkhull or Whieldon Road in Fenton , the local knowledge that he so rightly point to have come to I not via a parish council , because I have a very urban constituency , but through diligent and hard - work resident ’ association . in urban constituency , those often provide the very same function that my hon . friend point out . when the Minister get up and answer , perhaps we can encourage she to give proper consideration to the view of not only parish council , but resident ' association in urban community , which do so much for where they live . that be a fair point . again , I pay tribute to all the people who serve at that level of government , particularly people who give their time freely to serve in resident ’ association just to make life well for their neighbour and the people who live around they . I will mention two more place before I move on . there be Chapel Lane in Evenwood , where resident often complain about speeding , as well as High Etherley . we have a bypass run through Bishop Auckland . a year ago , we have a new shopping area build on one side of it , and for a year people have be dangerously cross the bypass from one side to the other . it be in the section 106 agreement that there be suppose to be a safe crossing point , but it seem to be the last thing on the developer ' s mind , with everything else come first . every week , people be take risk as they cross over at that bypass ; we have a petition out about that . far up the bypass , lot of child cross the road at Bracks Farm . my hon . friend be be most generous with his time , and I thank he for secure this really important debate . there be a busy bridge on the a171 in my constituency , which be use by pupil in year 7 and 8 base at the Airy Hill site of Whitby School , as well as the parent and pupil who attend Airy Hill primary school and tourist photograph the steam train that can be see below . it be a very noisy and windy bridge with heavy road and foot traffic , and it be high above the estuary . despite that , there be no zebra crossing or raise kerb , and the speed limit be 40 mph . understandably , local resident be really worried . they have try to lower the speed limit to 30 mph , but North Yorkshire council be not interested , so they have raise a petition themselves . do my hon . friend agree that this be exactly why parish and town council should be give road safety power , include the ability to introduce speed limit ? that be what I be call for tonight : for parish and town council to be able to decide the speed limit on the road within their boundary . they represent the voice of the people in those area . I will move on from the tour of my constituency — although you be all welcome to visit some of these lovely village sometime . by train . any way you want to come . for I , this start out as hear one anecdote , and then I would hear another and another , until it become obvious that this be a serious issue . it be about not just fatality — I accept that fatality be low , thank goodness — but the quality of people ' s life . it be about the fact that too many child be miss out on play , and that too many old people be miss out on social activity , because they do not feel safe cross their road . I have look at the regulation that these faceless bureaucrat be use when they so regularly say no to people , and it turn out that the Road Traffic Regulation Act come into effect in 1984 . that be the year I be bear , so it be as old as I , and it do not give power to parish and town council — they have no statutory role beyond advisory consultation . I thank my hon . friend for give way and echo the comment of other colleague : he be be very generous with his time . I thank he for call this debate and give we the opportunity to debate the role of parish council . it be something that we seldom do , but should do a lot more often . in my constituency , an issue that be frequently raise with I in the context of road safety be that of parking on double yellow line . in the face of completely absent enforcement , my local resident be always look for creative solution . in my home village of Norton Canes and the neighbouring village of Heath Hayes , both parish council have ask our highway authority , Staffordshire county council , to allow they to pay for extra enforcement activity . that pragmatic solution be repeatedly refuse by the previous conservative administration . I be encourage those parish council to try again now that we have a new Reform administration , to see whether the fresh thinking it keep promise we will extend to parking enforcement . do my hon . friend agree that whether it be traffic calm , speeding or parking , our parish and town council could play a much great role in keep their resident safe ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s extension of the debate to parking , which be also a road safety issue . I have lose track of how many time resident in the different village and town I represent have talk to I about ambulance that could not make their way up a street because there be no space give that people be not respect traffic rule . that be just another way in which people feel that they do not have control over the very street they live on . Parish and town council operate under the Local Government Act 1972 , and have no highway or transport power unless they be explicitly delegate , so power could be delegate to they . they can raise local issue , but can not initiate or enforce any regulatory change . as such , my ask of Government be simple : first , could we look at primary legislation to grant town and parish council the power to set enforceable speed limit ? if that be a step too far , could we at least provide strong statutory consultative power , so that they can force a review of speed limit , and strong power to appeal the bad decision that get make and demand proper explanation for the number of time that the computer say no ? my hon . friend have do tremendously well tonight , and he have be so generous with his time . I be fortunate enough to represent two parish council , one town council and numerous resident ’ group . across my constituency , I have get dozen of councillor in Gildersome , Drighlington and Morley who obviously have the expert knowledge — the street - by - street knowledge , and in some case the house - by - house knowledge — to make these decision for themselves . my hon . Friend agree that those council should have the power to change speed limit in their area , so perhaps he would like to comment on the mean average speed test that be often use to restrict speeding limit on certain road ? maybe when she sum up , the Minister would also like to comment on that issue . I be tired , as be my resident , of be tell that the mean average speed be too low to change thing , even though people on those road know through their live experience that the outlier be cause all the problem . do my hon . friend agree ? order . before we proceed , I think I be right in say that every Member present who be likely to want to intervene have do so ; well do . I would not wish hon . member to believe that ordinarily they be likely to get away with the length of intervention that they have get away with tonight . I understand that this be an important issue , and that there be constituency matter that need to be raise and place on the record , but do not take the lenience of the Chair for grant . member should bear in mind , as one hon . Lady have not , that if they intervene , they be expect to stay till the end of the debate to hear the Minister ' s response . thank you for your wisdom , Mr Deputy Speaker . I will move to the end of my speech . I have a simple ask . it be about the power that we give , but it be also about funding . I recognise that sometimes the reason the answer be no be that decision have to be take , and I have two thought on that . first , could we look at way to make the decision - make process less expensive ? one way of do so would simply be to trust local knowledge more than we do . if necessary , could we not also mandate that council put aside more funding for this area ? as we have hear from intervention , this be clearly and evidently one of the top issue that our constituent raise with we . resident have a right to know that when they speak with a collective voice , that voice get hear and respect at all level of government , from this place down to their parish council . council be democratically elect , accountable and rooted in their community . resident ' live experience offer well long - term insight than one - off traffic monitor snapshot . the current system prioritise administrative threshold over genuine local need . the Government ' s commitment to localism and community empowerment should apply to road safety too , and I genuinely welcome their commitment to give back control to the british people over many part of their life ; this be another area where people be ask to have more control . before I finish , it would be remiss of I not to put one more road safety issue on record , have unsuccessfully bob through two lot of Transport question and the spending review . that issue be the future of the A66 — an important piece of national infrastructure — and that future be decide not by parish council , but by the Treasury . I would be grateful to know the timeframe for get a response on that , because the dualling of the A66 be uncertain . it be an important piece of national infrastructure for the north of England — for people cross the Pennines from east to west . dualle would reduce the time it take to get to the Lake district and would mean far few road closure , which really impact on people ' s life . there have also be far too many fatality in the area . I want to steal those last few second to put that on the record . I thank member for their time this evening . I begin by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) on secure this debate and on make such incredibly good use of the extra time we have have . I thank he for speak so passionately about road safety . he be clearly a powerful advocate for his constituent . we really have a tour across the many village and community that he represent , and I enjoy his effort to namecheck they — every single one of they , I think . I be pleased to be back here for the second Adjournment debate about road safety in less than a week . I be happy to be discuss this important issue again , not just because I be Minister for the future of road — which should , of course , be a safe future — but because this issue matter to all of we . we , our family , our friend and our colleague all use our road , whether as driver , rider , pedestrian , cyclist , or passenger in bus or taxi , and we all deserve the right to go on our journey know that we will get home safely . unusually in an Adjournment debate , we hear from , I think , 19 member this evening — not only from my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland but from my hon . friend the Members for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) , for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) and for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) , for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) , for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) , for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) , for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) , for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) , for St Austell and Newquay ( Noah Law ) , for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) , for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) , for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) , for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) , and for Leeds South West and Morley ( Mark Sewards ) . I hope very much that I have not miss anyone out . we clearly all agree that no one should be kill or injure on our road , and improve road safety be one of my Department ' s high priority . in 2023 there be 1 , 624 fatality in report road collision in Great Britain , and more than 28 , 000 people be seriously injure . I have not work out the number , but I suspect that mean that in the time we have be debate this issue , someone will have be seriously injure somewhere on Great Britain ' s road . fatality and injury result from road collision be simply unacceptable , and this Government be work hard to prevent such tragedy for all road user . road safety be fundamental to everything that the Government stand for . safe road underpin our national mission : drive economic growth , enable greener journey through active travel , ease pressure on the national health service , and ensure that everyone can travel safely . that be why my Department be develop our road safety strategy , the first in over a decade . we will set out more detail in due course . member refer to the implementation of road safety at a local level . local government be the main delivery body for road safety . local authority have a statutory duty under section 39 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 to take step both to reduce and to prevent collision . it be for they to determine what measure be appropriate in individual case , because they have the local knowledge — many member mention the importance of that this evening — and it be right that they focus on the area of high risk , which may be place where tragic collision have occur . however , there be nothing to prevent they from implement road safety measure elsewhere . indeed , it be entirely right to consider what action can be take to prevent collision in the first place . although she live in Edinburgh South West , my constituent Amanda write to I about a power that english council do not have when it come to road safety , namely the power to deal with pavement parking . be that something that the Minister have consider ? I thank my hon . friend for , once again , raise the issue of pavement parking . as I hope he know , I be very keen for we to address that issue . it have be far too long since the 2020 consultation on the option , and I look forward to the opportunity to publish that consultation and set out the next step in due course . I hope that no local authority would claim that road measure can be consider only at location where there have be fatality , because that be simply not the case . I understand the importance of use resource effectively , where they be most need , but the use of such measure should never be arbitrary . this Government be commit to the devolution of power to local level , as we have show through the publication of the english devolution White Paper , but it be important that the right power be hold at the right level . responsibility for highway and traffic sit at county council or unitary level ; that enable local authority to deliver service in an efficient and consistent way across their area . we have no plan to devolve those power far to parish council , but it be nevertheless crucial that local highway authority engage with local partner , include parish and town council , when decide on the measure to take , as they can play an absolutely critical role in identify road safety issue in their area . they be often the first to hear about near miss or dangerous incident , and act as a vital link with local resident ' day - to - day experience . as we have hear time and again this evening , local parish and town council — as well as resident ’ association , as my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central say , and indeed schoolchildren , parent and a wide range of community group — have incredibly valuable local knowledge , and they need to be listen to and engage with . numerous hon . member have talk about the need for action to reduce speed , include by lower speed limit , and the need to enforce speed limit through police action and the introduction of speed camera . hon . member will know that the enforcement of road traffic law , and decision on how available police resource be deploy , be the responsibility of chief constable and police and crime commissioner , take into account the local problem and demand that they face . local highway authority have the power to set speed limit on their road , and it be important that this be do in partnership with town and parish council , and in consultation with the resident affect . I be really sorry to hear that in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland , Durham county council have not respond to local call for low speed limit on the stretch of road that he mention . I urge he , the town and parish council , and Durham county council to discuss this matter as a priority , and to try to find a way forward . as my hon . friend describe so vividly , dangerous road have very real impact on the life of his constituent , especially child , old people and disabled people . this debate will send a clear message to Durham county council , and perhaps to other highway authority , about the strength of feel not only among his constituent , but in his local community , about road safety issue , and about the need for highway authority to be accountable to local resident for decision that they take in fulfil their duty . local authority have a range of traffic management measure available to they to help improve safety in residential area and outside school , include pedestrian crossing , traffic - calm measure , school crossing patrol , and the introduction of a school street , where appropriate . good street design can help improve road safety , and the " Manual for Streets " be our key piece of street design guidance . it advocate for street to be design to support appropriate vehicle speed from the outset . let we build the right road to encourage appropriate speed , rather than have to deal with problem when they arise later . that will reduce the risk of collision , and reduce the severity of collision that do happen . we expect local authority to adopt the " Manual for Streets " when set their own design standard , but that be ultimately a choice for they . we be work to update the manual to ensure that it be still relevant and enable those design street to do so in a way that contribute to sustainable , healthy and active community . it be for local authority to determine what measure be appropriate in individual case , because they have local knowledge of their road , but any authority that wish to install scheme to improve safety have my Department ' s full backing . obviously , they will want to make those decision in consultation with local community and the local police . I welcome the support express by so many hon . member this evening , and agree that share local knowledge and work in partnership can be very helpful . my Department give council update guidance on set 20 mph speed limit in March 2024 , and remind they to reserve the low limit for appropriate location , such as outside school , with safety and local support at the heart of such decision . I want to emphasise that we support 20 mph speed limit in the right place . as well as improve safety , they can enhance quality of life , the environment and the local economy , but 20 mph zone and limit be well consider on a road - by - road basis , base on the safety case , to ensure local consent , rather than as blanket measure . as I say , local council will want to make decision about local implementation in consultation with local community and the local police . they know their road good , and I simply can not and should not dictate to they from Westminster . while local authority be free to make their own decision about the speed limit on the road in their care , provide they take account of the relevant legislation and guidance , they be rightly accountable to local people for those decision . my hon . friend and his constituent will rightly expect the county council not only to listen to their concern , but to be accountable for the decision it make , whether it decide to install traffic measure or decline to do so , and I think that apply to all hon . member who have make the powerful case for low speed limit . the " safe system " approach to road safety acknowledge that even careful driver can make mistake , but no one should be kill or seriously injure as a result of a mistake , and we know that collision at high speed be much more likely to have tragic outcome , which be why the argument hold for reduce speed limit in particular circumstance . the Department will look at what we can do to support local authority , and we stand ready to work with all those look to improve road safety locally . my Department recognise the excellent work that parish and town council do to improve the safety of local road , include through their involvement with community speedwatch scheme . I be grateful to my hon . friend the hon . member for Amber Valley for highlight that valuable volunteering . police - run community speedwatch scheme enable local volunteer to work with the police and other agency to address identify road policing issue in their locality . driver who be detect speed be send letter , and the police may take further action if a driver be detect multiple time . decision on when to adopt community speedwatch scheme be operational matter for police and crime commissioner and chief constable , work in conjunction with their local policing plan . the responsibility for keep for our road safe can not fall solely to central or local government ; all road user have a part to play , and they must all comply with road traffic law in the interest of their own safety and that of other road user . as set out in the highway code , the hierarchy of road user place those road user most at risk in the event of a collision right at the top of the hierarchy . the objective of the hierarchy of road user be not to give priority to pedestrian , cyclist and horse rider in every situation , but rather to ensure a more mutually respectful and considerate culture of safe and effective road use that benefit all user . this do not detract from the requirement for everyone to behave responsibly . there be both a legal and a moral duty for all road user to obey the law , both for safety and to create a culture of respect and consideration for all road user . there be law in place to ensure that unsafe and dangerous behaviour have no place on our road and be deal with appropriately , use the most effective sanction , include educational intervention . enforcement of the law be a matter for the police , who will decide on the evidence of each case whether an offence have be commit and the appropriate action to take . I conclude by again thank my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland for secure this timely and important debate . as I say at the start , the Government treat road safety with the utmost seriousness , and we be commit to reduce the number of those kill and injure on our road . my Department be develop our road safety strategy , which be vital . for too long , we have tolerate a lack of progress , and this Government be determined to act . I look forward to set out more detail in due course , as indeed we will on my hon . friend ' s ambition for the A66 . question put and agree to . House adjourn .