Oral Answers to Questions Wales the Secretary of State be ask — Employer National Insurance Contributions : impact on Employment what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the rise in employer national insurance contribution on employment in Wales . I be sure the whole House will wish to join I in send our deep sympathy to the family , friend and neighbour of Joanne Penney , who be callously murder in Talbot Green on Sunday . it be a shocking and horrific crime . we have protect the small business and more than double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 , mean that over half of small and micro business will pay less or no national insurance contribution at all . in Wales , small and medium - sized company account for 99 . 3 % of total enterprise . business across Wales , like those across my constituency of South West Devon , be be hit not only by Labour ' s job tax but by the increase minimum wage , rise cost and other business tax increase . each of those alone would force many to reduce their workforce , but the combination of all three mean that business be think twice about fill job vacancy or create new post . what reassurance can the Minister give to business across Wales , and to company such as Serpells in my constituency , that their business have a promising future between now and the next election , when the Labour Budget show they the complete opposite ? if the conservative party care so much about employment and business in Wales , perhaps the hon . Lady should explain why her colleague in the Senedd vote last week to block thousand of new apprenticeship and more than £ 300 million of support for business in Wales . her party vote against that . let we go to the shadow Front Bench . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Wales . who be the Secretary of State battle for , Kazakhstan or Wales ? labour ' s political choice mean countless job in Wales be at risk due to the national insurance rise . the damaging impact that be have in the Minister ' s back yard be clear , with more than 1 , 800 job reportedly at risk at Cardiff University — in one of the many sector that be desperately try to stay afloat due to the Welsh Government ' s job tax and the Labour Government ' s impact on the Welsh economy . with Cardiff University plough on with its Kazakhstan campus , can the right hon . Lady be happy with the offshoring of those role in that sector and many other because of the continue fallout from the autumn Budget ? I be not sure where the hon . Member have get the idea about outsource job . it be her party that tell our university across the country to go out and recruit international student , which they do . now , because of that and because of what happen under her Government ' s watch , those international student be not come any more . she should , again , look to her colleague in the Senedd . there be the education budget ; her party vote against it . she need to talk to her colleague in the Senedd . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the national insurance increase be set to hit high street in Wales hard , with many trader say that they will lay off staff as a result . last week , the Government announce £ 100 million of funding to be spend on reinvigorate Welsh high street , but no town in the Swansea , Neath or Amman valley be on that list . will the Secretary of State clarify the criterion use to select the successful town and whether area such as Ystalyfera can expect to benefit from future funding ? that be one high street that be certainly worth invest in . the criterion for the announcement last week be publicly available ; I suggest the hon . Gentleman have a look at it . Diolch yn fawr iawn , Lefarydd . I be sure the House will join I in remember the Llandow air disaster in which 80 people lose their life 75 year ago . Elaine ' s Hair and Beauty Salon in Llanrug , pitian Patian Nursery in Llanwnda and care home and GP surgery across Dwyfor Meirionnydd tell I that national insurance hike come in just a few week will stop they hire new staff . the Secretary of State ' s government say they be cut welfare to get people into job . what job ? Plaid Cymru ' s manifesto for the general election have £ 5 billion of unfunded commitment . if the right hon . Lady ' s party be in power , we would be face the same legacy that we have from the conservative party : a £ 22 billion black hole that have mean that we have have to take difficult decision . her constituent will want more investment in our NHS , more investment in our public service and more investment to support business ; her party vote against all that in the Welsh budget . if the government agree with the Secretary of State ' s counterpart in Cardiff , we would have the money from the Crown Estate as well . back in 2015 , the Secretary of State and I walk through the same Lobby to vote against what she then describe as despicable Tory welfare cut , and she dare the break the Labour Whip to do so . give the evidence of her strong conviction on the issue , how can she justify remain in a Cabinet that be intent on implement tory - style welfare cut ? we inherit a Tory welfare system that be the bad of all world : it have the wrong incentive ; it discourage people from work ; the people who really need a safety net be still not get the dignity and support that they need ; and the taxpayer be fund an ever - spiral bill . it be unsustainable , indefensible and unfair . our principle for reform be clear : support those who need support , restore trust and fairness in the system , fix that break assessment process and the disincentive and support people to start , stay and success in work . the right hon . Lady should support that . Crown Estate : devolution what recent discussion she have have with the Welsh Government on devolve the Crown Estate . I recently meet the Deputy First Minister to discuss a wide range of issue , include the Crown Estate . the UK and Welsh Governments be focus on take maximum advantage of the opportunity that float offshore wind in the Celtic sea present for Wales , which could create over 5 , 000 job and £ 1 . 4 billion of investment to the UK economy in the come year . in the 2011 Scottish National party manifesto , we commit to have the equivalent of 100 % of Scotland ' s electricity generate from renewable . the SNP meet that target and then some , thank to the devolution of the Crown Estate and to work with industry . it be now deliver job and clean , green energy to Scotland and throughout the UK . why should Wales not have the same opportunity ? I will not take any lecture on the Crown Estate from the hon . member , whose party ' s mismanagement of the scottish seabed result in scottish asset be sell off on the cheap . we be focus on do whatever it take to secure more than 5 , 000 job in Wales and the billion of pound of investment that the Crown Estate can unlock for Wales . do the Secretary of State agree that the Government ' s priority should be ensure that the Crown Estate can unlock thousand of new well - pay job in Wales that will come with float offshore wind , rather than be distract by call to devolve the organisation in the middle of this national mission , which would risk the investment , job and low energy bill that Wales desperately need ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . like she , I want people in Wales to benefit from those 5 , 300 new job , particularly young people , so that they do not have to leave Wales , where they have grow up , to earn or learn . I want that £ 1 . 4 billion boost to the economy . we be not prepared to put all that at risk of market fragmentation , undermine or potentially destroy developer confidence in flow , and have to watch that investment go elsewhere in the world . change to apr and BPR : number of Farms affect what estimate she have make with Cabinet colleague of the number of farm affect by change to agricultural property relief and business property relief in Wales . what estimate she have make with Cabinet colleague of the number of farm affect by change to agricultural property relief and business property relief in Wales . I have speak to the farming union in Wales , and I understand their strength of feeling . these change be expect to affect around 500 claim across the whole UK , with very few in Wales . meanwhile , most importantly , the Welsh Government and this Government have protect the farming budget at its current level , while the Welsh Conservatives try to block that money from reach farmer by vote against the Welsh Government ' s budget last week . the Scotland Office be conduct a series of agricultural roundtable , talk directly to farmer and put together statistic to push back against the orthodoxy that only a tiny number of very wealthy estate will be affect , which be simply not the case . this increasingly look like a war on farmer by the Treasury . what part be the Minister play in fight back against it ? the Treasury be confident in its figure . specific question on the methodology be a matter for the Treasury , but I repeat that the change to APR be expect to affect only 500 claim across the whole UK , with very few in Wales . as the hon . member know , we be committed to our farmer , through keep the £ 337 million block grant , which the Welsh Government have pass on to farmer directly . farmer across the UK have already be rock by the change to apr and BPR , and yesterday we have shock news that the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs will take no new sustainable farming incentive application in England . what reassurance can the Minister give farmer in Wales that the sustainable farming scheme will be deliver in full and on time on 1 January next year ? as the hon . Gentleman know , my good friend the Deputy First Minister of Wales have spend a lot of time talk to farmer . we have absolutely protect the budget for farmer , as have the Welsh Government , so the full £ 337 million will go directly to farmer , despite his colleague in the Senedd try to block it last week . I call the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee . the Welsh Affairs Committee be launch its inquiry into farming in Wales this week , because we know that farming be a cornerstone of the Welsh economy . the Welsh Government budget contain over £ 300 million to support Welsh farmer . do the Minister agree that it be a shame that the opposition party be play fast and loose with farmer ’ livelihood by vote against the Welsh Government budget last week ? indeed , my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be an utter disgrace that opposition party decide to vote against the budget last week . they be effectively try to block money go to farmer — what a disgrace . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Government have say that they be concern , as we all be , about our future security , so why be food security expendable in Wales and beyond ? that be the message from farmer Stella Owen of the National Farmers Union Cymru , who have say that the Government ' s action be " destructive " and " threaten the future of family farm " across Wales . how many of those family farm be the Minister prepare to see go under before she and the Secretary of State step up and act in the interest of that key sector by help the man and woman who be livid , worried and fear for their livelihood ? as I be sure the shadow Secretary of State have be remind many time , difficult decision have to be make to fund our public service , but the change still leave a significant amount of relief in place . farming parent will typically be able to pass on up to £ 3 million to their child without pay any inheritance tax at all , and above that amount inheritance tax will be pay at a reduce effective rate of up to 20 % , rather than the standard 40 % . estate have up to 10 year to pay any tax due , and it will be interest - free . those term be not available to other . that fair and balanced approach maintain support for family farm while also fix the public service on which we , include farmer , rely . Cancer Strategies whether she have have recent discussion with the Welsh Government on the implementation of cancer strategy . I have regular discussion with my Welsh Government colleague about health . I be pleased to see clear progress in cancer service in Wales . in December , performance against the 62 - day cancer target be the good we have see since August 2021 , but no one should ever be complacent about cancer , which be why our two government be commit to work closely on cancer , share good practice and deliver well outcome for patient across England and Wales . since August 2020 , not a single health board in Wales have meet its cancer target , leave patient waiting month for their referral to start treatment , and despite recommendation to implement screening programme properly , the standard for uptake be not be achieve , lead to poor health outcome . as the Department of Health and Social Care embark on develop a strategy for England , how will the Secretary of State for Wales ensure that those issue be not repeat there ? I can tell the hon . Gentleman that there be now positive progress on waiting list . both government be work together in a spirit of genuine collaboration to cut NHS waiting list and build an NHS fit for the future . the Welsh Government have commit more than £ 600 million in extra funding to health and social care in their budget for 2025 - 26 . they be also set up a national cancer leadership board to improve cancer care . thank to those investment , Welsh NHS service be improve , include for cancer , and waiting list be fall . will my hon . friend outline how she be work in partnership with the Welsh Government to improve cancer and health outcome ? could she try to help I understand why on earth , in the Welsh budget vote last week , the Conservatives and Plaid Cymru vote against £ 600 million more for our Welsh NHS ? I really can not explain why conservative colleague in the Senedd vote against that budget . not only be the Welsh Government deliver £ 600 million ; they be also deliver a specific package on cancer care . the initial phase , which be go to focus on breast , skin , gynaecological , low gastrointestinal and neurological cancer , will improve productivity and efficiency in how health board deliver care . this include send people straight to test without an out - patient appointment . alongside this , the Welsh Government be implement a wide range of service improvement , from reduce smoking and tackle obesity to HPV vaccination and diagnostic and generic strategy . Welsh Tourism Industry what discussion she have have with the Welsh Government on step to support the Welsh tourism industry . Wales have a world - class tourism offer . I fully support the Welsh Government ' s support for the tourism sector through Visit Wales and other initiative . last month , the UK Government announce a £ 15 million investment for Venue Cymru in Llandudno and the Newport transporter bridge . these be two key project that will help to boost the tourism and culture sector in Wales . the tourism and hospitality sector in the UK be one of the most heavily tax in Europe . will the Secretary of State press the Chancellor to reduce the tax burden in this area to help drive local economy that rely on tourism in Wales and in constituency such as mine on the Isle of Wight ? I would gently remind the hon . Gentleman that his party in government put the high tax burden in 70 year on the people and business of this country , leave a £ 22 billion black hole that we have have to try to sort out . More than 40 country and holiday destination around the world have introduce a form of visitor levy , include Greece , Amsterdam , Barcelona and California . what work be the Secretary of State do with the Welsh Government to support our vital tourism industry ? my hon . friend have one of the most beautiful constituency in Wales , and I know that tourism be critical to his local economy . indeed , tourism probably remain the only way to see a Conservative MP in Wales after the general election . the visitor levy be set to raise up to £ 33 million for the tourism sector across Wales . last week , conservative in the Senedd vote to block £ 15 . 6 million of support for Welsh tourism . I call the shadow Secretary of State , Mims Davies . sadly , there will be no more Easter family fun at Oakwood , which have make it clear that its final demise , after covid , be due to labour ' s loom tourism tax , the job tax and sky - high business rate from the Senedd , mean that it be all over . how many more tourist and hospitality business need to tell the UK Government that their " closed " sign will be go up and stay up due to decision make by the Treasury ? will the Secretary of State stand up for the business and job in Wales who know that they be be take for the bad ride possible — frankly , even more vomit - induce than Megafobia — by this Government of broken promise ? last week , the hon . Lady ' s colleague in the Senedd vote against extra money for tourism — [ interruption . ] they do ! maybe she should have a conversation with Darren Millar , her colleague in the Senedd , but I do not think they be have that sort of conversation at the moment because they be still argue about who be lead the Tories in Wales . NHS Waiting Lists what recent discussion she have have with the Welsh Government on NHS waiting list . I regularly meet the First Minister to discuss a wide range of matter , include NHS waiting list . the late datum show positive progress in reduce long waiting time and the size of the waiting list , thank to investment by both the UK and Welsh Governments . I be appalled to hear that Plaid Cymru vote against £ 600 million of extra investment to bring down NHS waiting list in Wales , but I be afraid that this be a familiar story for our Scottish Members . do the Secretary of State agree that nationalist party will always prioritise niche constitutional distraction over deliver priority for work family and what they need and deserve ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . Plaid Cymru Members will have to explain to their constituent why they vote against £ 600 million extra for the NHS last week , block crucial funding from reach our hospital , NHS staff and patient in Wales . one of the issue with waiting list in Wales , as be the case all across the United Kingdom , concern those who have be wait first for diabetes diagnosis and then for treatment . there use to be a strategy in Westminster that encompass not just England , but Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . would the Secretary of State support a similar strategy for the four region together to address diabete and what it be do to this country ? we be talk about nation and region , rather than just region , but I would be happy to have a discussion with the hon . Gentleman outside the Chamber about that matter . strength of the Union what recent assessment she have make of the strength of the Union . our United Kingdom be go from strength to strength and be underpin by a transformed relationship between the UK and devolve government . in Wales , that mean a partnership between our two government deliver on the issue that matter most to people : reform the NHS and public service , and attract investment and new job through freeport , investment zone and our industrial strategy . today the Senedd will vote on a motion to redesignate High Speed 2 as an England - only project . previous calculation suggest that Wales miss out on around £ 4 billion from the project . Welsh Ministers have now claim that the amount be £ 431 million — quite the difference . with the Welsh Government abandon their ambition and the UK Government refuse to budge on full consequential funding , be the Labour party now wave the white flag on Wales ' s miss billion ? the Government absolutely acknowledge that the previous Conservative Government short - change Wales for year on rail investment , include because of hs2 . one of our top priority be to reverse those year of historic underfunding in Wales ' s infrastructure . the Secretary of State meet the Transport Secretary and the Welsh Government Transport Minister Ken Skates immediately before Christmas , when they agree on a direction of travel that we hope will deliver new rail investment in Wales . the UK and Welsh Governments have agree a prioritisation of rail improvement project develop by the Wales Rail Board . that would inform our respective Departments ' work in the run - up to the spring spending review . investment in Wales by the UK Government demonstrate the strength of the Union . I be therefore delighted to see the UK Labour Government announce their plan for neighbourhood , which will see a £ 100 million investment in Welsh community , with £ 20 million of that go into my constituency , straight into vital local resource such as high street and youth club . do the Minister that this Labour Government be commit to bring growth to area of Wales that be previously ignore by the Conservatives ? indeed . with the UK and Welsh Governments work together , we have secure more than £ 1 . 5 billion in investment and hundred of job in Wales . of course , we have establish investment zone in Cardiff , Newport , Wrexham and Flintshire to provide a rocket - boost to sector strength , such as advanced manufacturing . School Standards in Wales what discussion she have have with the Welsh Government on school standard in Wales . the UK Government have deliver the big Budget settlement in the history of devolution , with £ 21 billion of new money for the Welsh Government . the Welsh Government be invest almost £ 200 million this year to support school standard across Wales , plus a far almost £ 170 million next year . the hon . member ' s Welsh conservative colleague try to block that funding by vote against the Welsh Government Budget last week . child in Wales have the low PISA — programme for international student assessment — score in the United Kingdom and be significantly below the OECD average . do the Minister believe that that could be relate to 26 year of labour government in Wales ? I will take no lecture from the Conservatives . their attack ring hollow give the chronic underfunding of education and public service over the 14 year they be in power . now , the UK and Welsh Governments be work together to ensure that every young person have the opportunity to succeed , by invest over £ 260 million extra in education and more than £ 260 million in local government , which set school budget in Wales . in spite of the shenanigan of Plaid and the Conservatives vote against the Welsh Government ' s Budget , Labour be get on and deliver certainty and support for teacher across Wales through increase to education and local authority budget . do my hon . friend welcome , as I do , the additional £ 20 million announce by the Welsh Government last week to improve education standard , on top of the £ 262 million extra in total for education in Wales ? be she as perplex as I be as to why the Conservatives and Plaid Cymru vote against extra money for education in the Welsh budget ? like my hon . friend , I be absolutely astounded by the way that Plaid Cymru and Conservative Senedd Members vote against the budget , but the important thing be that this year the Welsh Government will be invest an additional £ 1 . 1 million in literacy , numeracy and science support in school . the Welsh Government have also announce a £ 10 million investment package for literacy and numeracy in the come year , increase local capacity to support school , national support programme and intervention to support bud learner . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 12 March . I welcome the progress of talk between Ukraine and the United States . we must now redouble our effort to get a last , secure peace . on Saturday , I will convene international leader to discuss how we can make further progress . I pay tribute to the bravery and dedication of all those respond to the ship collision off the east Yorkshire coast . our thought and , I be sure , the thought of the whole House be with the family of the crew member who be sadly presume dead . this week we introduce landmark legislation to get Britain building , pave the way to restore the dream of home ownership for work people across the country . we be also drive forward our Employment Rights Bill , the big boost to worker ' right in a generation . that be our plan for change in action . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . Russia have abduct at least 19 , 000 ukrainian child and transfer they to Russia . they have be tell that their parent do not love they , place in russian home and be re - educate . for that despicable crime and other , the International Criminal Court have issue six arrest warrant for Vladimir Putin and his gang . I note the Prime Minister ' s previous fulsome support for the ICC and his comment just last night about the support that the UK will offer to Ukraine in achieve a just and last peace . will the Prime Minister confirm to the House that british peacekeeping troop will be deploy to Ukraine only if the peacekeeping deal include both the return of Ukraine ' s child and Putin ' s prosecution ? I thank the hon . member for raise that issue , because it be an absolutely terrible case of abduction and kidnapping . when we say a lasting , just settlement for peace in Ukraine , it must of course involve deal with that issue . as he would expect , we be raise it continually with our ally . Telford and Britain vote for change in July , yet this week we see the bizarre spectacle of the Conservatives attempt to bring back the Rwanda policy , cling on to a gimmick that cost british taxpayer £ 700 million yet send only four volunteer to Rwanda . as Labour work to secure our border through our plan for change , do the Prime Minister agree with I that it be quite clear that the conservative party have learn absolutely nothing ? my hon . friend be quite right . the Conservatives run an open border experiment that see number go up to almost 1 million , and the Leader of the Opposition be the cheerleader , thank herself for the lobbying that she do . the Rwanda scheme cost £ 700 million of taxpayer ' money to remove four volunteer . what a contrast : we have get the flight off and remove 19 , 000 people who should not be here . as with the NHS , prison , the economy and everything else , we be clear up the mess that they leave . I call the Leader of the Opposition . later today , the Prime Minister be meet the family of Sir David Amess . Sir David give this House and our country 40 year of service . I hope the Prime Minister will agree that get the response to his murder right be vital not just to his family but to our democracy . every week , I speak to business that be let go of staff or closing . have the Prime Minister be give an estimate of how many people will lose their job because of his Budget ? on the question of Sir David , he be a deeply love and respected colleague — behind I be his plaque , and there be the plaque in front of I for Jo Cox . I know that this be deeply feel by the House , but particularly , as I acknowledge at the time , by the Conservative party , which lose a colleague and a friend in the most awful of circumstance . I be meet the Amess family later on today , and I will make sure that they get answer to the question that they ask . in relation to business , I be really pleased to say that we have thousand of new job in the economy . we have get more investment in than in the last 20 year — an absolute record . wage be up high than price , and there have be three interest rate cut — the good boost for the cost of live for a very long time . the Prime Minister need to get out more . inflation be up , and estimate of job loss be between 130 , 000 and 300 , 000 . his tax rise be hurt every sector of the economy . thing be get bad for nursery , which be write to stress parent right now tell they that fee will go up because of his job tax . can he explain how more expensive childcare be good for the economy or for work family struggle to make end meet ? we be put in childcare — look at the breakfast club ; there be two in the right hon . Lady ' s constituency . she be rather forget the £ 22 billion black hole that the Conservatives leave , which we have to deal with . that be why we have to take the necessary but right measure that we do in the Budget . what be her response ? it be not that she would reverse they — oh no , she do not say that . she attack what we have do , but she do not say that she would reverse it , because she want all the benefit of our Budget in term of investment , but do not want to pay for it . that be how we get into the mess in the first place . the Prime Minister be out of touch . he should know that nursery be charge more than £ 2 , 000 for full - time care — that be £ 24 , 000 a year after tax — and he be talk about 60p breakfast club . he have no idea what people out there be experience . it be not just family : even council must pay the Prime Minister ' s job tax . to cope with that , the average council tax bill be increase by more than £ 100 in April , after he promise to freeze it . hard - work family ' money be go to the Chancellor instead of to social care and fix pothole . why should these family pay more for less ? the right hon . Lady really should not denigrate what I think she call " 60p breakfast club " . she should be welcome they . she ask about council tax . the Tories put up council tax every year for 12 year . their Local Government Association manifesto say that Government should : " remove the cap on Council Tax " . Hampshire county council , which be Tory , want a 15 % increase , and we say no . Slough borough council , which , again , be Tory , want 3 % , and we say no . Windsor and Maidenhead council , which be Tory and be now Lib Dem , want 25 % , and we say no . we be the one do the right thing to get this country on the right track . the point be that the Prime Minister promise to freeze council taxis , and they be go up . if he want to talk about council , let we look at Liverpool , or maybe Birmingham , where the rubbish be pile up so high . People vote labour , and all they get be trash — just like what he be say at the Dispatch Box . People all over the country be suffer , not just in Birmingham . million of elderly people have have their winter fuel payment snatch away . at the same time , care home fee be set to go up by a devastating £ 3 , 000 because of the Prime Minister ' s job tax . how do he expect pensioner on a fix income to make end meet ? this be why it be so important that wage be up high than price . it be why it be so important that interest rate be come down . this be the big boost for the cost of live for a very long time . what we be do be pick up and fix the mess that the Tories leave . the Prime Minister be not look at what be happen out there . every day , I speak to business that be tell we that they think they be go bust , and as if business and family do not have enough to worry about , supermarket say that food price will increase by over 4 % because of the job tax . that be before we get to the immoral family farm tax on the very farmer who work so hard to produce our food . what do the Prime Minister have against farmer , anyway ? do he not see that his Budget be kill farming in this country , and that he be make life so much hard for everyone else ? the Budget provide £ 5 billion for farming over the next two year — that be a record amount . we have set out a road map for farming , which have be welcome by farmer , and many thousand of farm have benefit from the farming scheme . the right hon . Lady talk about price ; wage be go up high than price . it be the first time in a long time that that have happen , so family across the country be well off under Labour . the Prime Minister have get no answer today . what the farmer be complain about be the sustainable farming incentive , which he have just scrap , or withdraw . the Government be make mistake with this Budget , which be why in two week , the Chancellor will come to this House to present an emergency Budget that the Prime Minister say we would not need . they will try to make out that it be because of global event , but the truth be that the Government trash the economy with their bad choice . they say that they would look after pensioner , then they snatch away winter fuel payment . they say that they would be pro - business , but they hike taxis on job , and the Prime Minister promise to freeze council tax , but it be go up by £ 100 . this be a high - tax , low - growth , job - kill Government . will he use the emergency Budget to fix the mess he have make ? under the Tories , inflation be 11 % , with a £ 22 billion black hole and a mini - Budget that make we the laugh stock of the world , and they want to give we lecture on the economy ? no , thank you very much . with one in eight young people across the country not in education , employment or training , people in Rugby be worried about a waste generation . too many people with disability and health condition be not get the help they need to get into work , so will the Prime Minister set out how this Government will give everyone who be able to work the support they need , provide compassion to those who can not work , and fix the broken welfare system leave behind by — you guess it — the Conservatives ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . I come from a family that deal with disability through my mother and brother over many year , so I understand the concern he have raise . we inherit a system that be break . it be indefensible , economically and morally , and we must and will reform it . we will have clear principle : we will protect those who need protect , and we will also support those who can work back to work . labour be the party of work , and we be also the party of equality and fairness . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I would like to begin by give a shout - out for Young Carers Action Day , which be today , but I promise the House that I will not sing . the Prime Minister have rightly speak about the need to get more people into work — he have repeat that today — so that people have more dignity , we can get the economy go , and we can cut the benefit bill after the disgraceful legacy leave by the Conservatives . do the Prime Minister recognise that the good way to help many disabled people into work be to support they properly , through more special equipment , training , well healthcare and so on ? will he also today calm anxiety that he himself have raise for many of we by say that disability benefit for people who simply can not work will not be cut ? as I have just say , we will support those who need support , but help those who can work into work . those will be the guide principle . what we have inherit be shocking — [ interruption ] — and those on the Opposition Benches ought to be silent . one in eight young people be not in education , work or training — that be a lost generation . that be the inheritance . [ interruption . ] they have plenty to say now , but they do nothing for 14 year , and that be a terrible inheritance . turn to international issue , can I congratulate the Prime Minister on help to secure the restoration of US military and intelligence support for Ukraine ? can I press he on progress to persuade President Trump against the damaging metal tariff that be already hit british industry ? the Prime Minister know that we on the Lib Dem Benches believe that we must be more robust with President Trump , like the Europeans and the Canadians . will the Prime Minister fly out to Canada as soon as possible to show its new Prime Minister and the canadian people that Britain stand with its Commonwealth ally against Trump ' s threat and trump ' s tariff ? Canada be an ally , and a very important ally , too . I have speak to our ally on many occasion about the situation in Canada . on the question of tariff , like everybody else , I be disappointed to see global tariff on steel and aluminium , but we will take a pragmatic approach . we be , as the right hon . Gentleman know , negotiate an economic deal , which cover and will include tariff , if we succeed , but we will keep all option on the table . l á Fh é ile P á draig shona daoibh agus Seachtain na Gaeilge daoibh . Deis len á r dteanga agus á r gcult ú r a cheili ú radh ar fud an domhain . Happy St Patrick ' s day , everybody , and happy Irish Language Week . it be an opportunity to use irish language and celebrate irish culture across the world . it be an increasingly turbulent world , and relationship and norm have be turn upside - down over recent week , which be why I congratulate the Prime Minister and the Taoiseach on re - establish a warm and firm relationship at their summit last week . it be reassure for all of we to know that whatever our constitutional future , that bond be last and refresh . will the Prime Minister join I in wish a happy St Patrick ' s day to all who value our share bond ? may I take this opportunity to invite he , in August 2027 , to Belfast , which be announce this week as the host of the Fleadh Cheoil na h É ireann for the first time ? I join the hon . Lady in wish everybody celebrate a very happy St Patrick ' s day . she be right that we need a strong and settle relationship between the United Kingdom and Ireland , and the need for that have never be great . that be why I be delighted to host the Taoiseach in Liverpool last week at our first annual UK - Ireland summit . we have turn the page and start a new era in our relationship with Ireland . I would be happy to go to Belfast in 2027 , but I want to go much soon than that . in just 20 day ' time , new sentencing guidance will come into effect that the Justice Secretary have already concede will be two - tier in its nature . it will mean that the colour of a person ' s skin or their religion can mean that they be view with leniency in the eye of the law . it will plunge public confidence in the judiciary into crisis , but it be avoidable . we conservative have table a Bill that , if back on Friday , can stop this guidance in its track . will the Prime Minister overrule his Justice Secretary , and confirm here and now that he will back that Bill , or will he simply step aside and prove that he have be two - tier Keir all along ? everyone should be equal before the law , and that be why the Lord Chancellor have take up the issue with the Sentencing Council , but the hon . Gentleman need to do his homework . the proposal that he complain about be draft in 2024 , and the last Government be consult . when they be consult , what do they say ? they say they welcome the proposal . I understand that the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , be take the Sentencing Council to court . perhaps he should add himself as a second defendant , so that he can get to the bottom of all this . I be proud to represent a constituency with eight synagogue , a thriving jewish population and the United Kingdom ' s large jewish cultural centre , JW3 , but this week , I be horrify to read report of rise antisemitism on NHS ward , and in particular about a shocking incident in which a jewish NHS staff member be call a baby killer by a colleague . the NHS that I know and love be open to everyone , regardless of background . what be the Prime Minister do to ensure that my jewish constituent can safely use our beloved national health service ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the subject of those deeply concern report . it be completely unacceptable for anyone to experience racism , discrimination or prejudice in the health service , and I know that my right hon . friend the Health Secretary take such report extremely seriously , because it be a fundamental principle that the NHS provide care and treatment for everyone , regardless of race , faith or background . but it ' s okay in the justice system ? this be a really serious issue . the hon . Gentleman have let himself down , and he know it . I expect all trust and healthcare provider to take necessary action against any staff who have express view that do not reflect the view and value of the NHS . durability of UK - US Relations if he will make an assessment of the durability of UK - US relation . as the hon . Gentleman know , and as the House know , I be committed to strengthen those relation . the United States be an indispensable ally , and we be work together to try to secure a just and last peace in Ukraine . I have speak to the President on a number of occasion , include this week . I agree with those sentiment . this week ' s ceasefire negotiation be a cause for great optimism , and I welcome the effort of the Prime Minister ' s national security adviser , Jonathan Powell , in lead on that priority . however , last week the Prime Minister say at the Dispatch Box , in answer to my right hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , that he have no knowledge of the United States ' plan to withdraw military aid from Ukraine , which the United States do the follow day . it be against that backdrop that I ask the Prime Minister — because I know he want a just and last peace in Ukraine that respect Ukraine ' s border and territorial integrity — what reassurance he can give the House that when he be impress that priority on the President of the United States , the President be actually listen . let I give this reassurance . as soon as that step be take , my team and I start work to try to ensure that we could return to a situation of full support for Ukraine . I will not detail everything that be involve over the last week , but I can assure the hon . Gentleman and the House that a huge amount of hard work , discussion and diplomacy be use with all our ally , and other , to ensure that we could get yesterday to go as well as we hope it would . I be pleased that we make progress — I think that be very important for Ukraine — and I be extremely pleased that support have be put in , back by the UK . so that be what I do once I understand what have happen . I be pleased with where we have get to , but , as ever , we must go far . engagement disabled people in my constituency be frightened because they be again hear politician use the language of " tough choice " . they know from bitter experience that when politician talk about tough choice , it mean the easy option of make the poor and vulnerable pay . instead of cut benefit for disabled people , would not the moral thing — the courageous thing — to do be to make a real tough choice , and introduce a wealth tax on the very wealthy people in our society ? the conservative party leave a broken welfare system that lock million out of work , and that , in my view , be indefensible , economically and morally . of course we must support people who need support ; we must help those who want to work to get back into work , and I think there be a moral imperative in that . my hon . friend talk about a wealth tax . we have raise money through the energy profit levy , tax non - dom and air passenger duty on private jet , but this be not a bottomless pit , and we must kick - start growth to secure the economic stability that we need . Most people would accept that we need more housing in this country , yet so often it be not accompany by the necessary infrastructure . in my constituency , thousand of house be propose , yet without £ 250 million to upgrade junction 12 of the M5 , the inspector be likely to rule our plan unsound . will the Prime Minister use his upcoming Planning and Infrastructure Bill to see how developer and landowner contribution can more effectively build this vital infrastructure , which would benefit community up and down the country ? the hon . Gentleman be right : we have to get the house that we need build in his constituency and elsewhere — something that the conservative party fail to do . that be why we have introduce the infrastructure Bill , which I think he welcome . that Bill will get Britain building , so that we can deliver on those 1 . 5 million new home through our plan for change . on the issue he raise , he and my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) have be work together to try to resolve this issue , as I understand it , and I be happy to ensure that he get a meeting with the relevant Minister , if that would help in take it far . may I commend this Labour Government ' s landmark reform to get Britain build through our plan for change ? I look forward to work with Ministers to ensure that developer deliver what they promise to local resident , so that those in new home have access to road , gp surgery and dentist , and do not create an extra burden for hospital such as the William Harvey hospital in my Ashford constituency . what be the Prime Minister ' s message to the blocker who be stand in the way of our build the home and vital infrastructure that our country need ? my hon . friend be a dedicated campaigner for his constituent . we know who have be stand in the way for the past 14 year : the Conservatives , and they have learn absolutely nothing . the Leader of the Opposition claim that she have never oppose growth or development , but that be not what she be tell her constituent . only last month , she write in her newsletter that she will " keep work with conservative colleague " to block a vital energy infrastructure project in her own backyard . she be not alone ; the shadow Foreign Secretary , the shadow Defence Secretary , the shadow Environment Secretary — they be all at it . what a bunch of blocker ! the Employment Rights Bill will grant union equality representative the right to pay time off work . will the Prime Minister grant special constable the right to take unpaid leave to perform their duty ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise the question of special constable , who play a very important role in our community in keep we safe . the number of special constable drop under the last government . we support the exist employer - support police scheme , and we will support our special constable , but the number drop under the last Government . I recently visit Middlesbrough ' s James Cook university hospital , and learn of the brilliant work in the neuroscience department for the survivor of stroke , brain and spinal injury , and many other condition . it have only 18 rehabilitation bed to serve a population of some 1 . 4 million people , whereas the guideline say it need 80 bed , mean that patient in the Tees valley do not get the rehabilitation they need . will the Government remedy the position by ensure that resource be allocate for meet the ambition of develop a world - class neuro - rehabilitation centre , serve the Tees valley and beyond ? I thank my hon . friend for his question ; it be important to hear about the important work that the James Cook hospital be do in his constituency . we be invest £ 350 , 000 in research on intervention that support people with functional neurological disorder , in order to rehabilitate they within the community . of course , our plan for change invest £ 25 billion to cut waiting list , speed up treatment and shift more care into the community . in relation to the hospital , I will make sure that he get a meeting with the Minister to see what far can be do . will the Prime Minister look at the case of my constituent Mr and Mrs Adrian Fenton , who return home from visit France in their motorhome to discover an illegal immigrant conceal in the bike rack ? they report the matter immediately to the police , only to receive a fine of £ 1 , 500 from Border Force . do he agree that my constituent ought to be thank , rather than punish , and do he accept that this action will deter anybody from act responsibly in the future ? I thank the right hon . member for raise this important case on behalf of his constituent . I have see some of the detail , and I be concerned about it . I do think it be important , as he say , that the Home Office look into it , and therefore we will do so . I will ensure that he be update in relation to that in due course . veteran in Sefton , one of the many remarkable charity in my constituency , state that " statistic can only partly measure the price pay by … servicemen and woman . incidence of break marriage , suicide , alcoholism , deep depression , and homelessness among veteran remain largely unquantified . " give that , will my right hon . friend restate Labour ' s commitment to provide our veteran with the holistic support they need and deserve ? we owe an extraordinary debt to our veteran . we be committed to renew the nation ' s contract with those who have serve , and that include the guarantee of home for hero for those who have serve , dedicated mental and physical healthcare pathway in the NHS and dedicated support to help those leave service use their skill to find new and fulfilling career . yesterday , with no notice , DEFRA close sustainable farming incentive application , leave thousand of farmer who want to deliver public good wait for a year without support . can the Prime Minister assure british farmer that they will not be leave stranded and unable to support environmental and food resilience goal due to lack of government support ? as the hon . member know , the SFI scheme have operate to provide quite considerable support so far . there have be a number of scheme : they have close and then a new scheme have be put in place . in 2022 and 2023 , the Conservatives close they without the six week ' notice . but we do support farmer and we will be put forward more detail at the spending review . the difference in this Government be that we be fund the farmer , whereas the Conservatives fail to spend part of the budget . in October 2023 in an interview with lbc , the Prime Minister say : " I think Israel do have that right " , when ask whether cut off power and water to Gaza be appropriate . for 11 day now , Israel have block the entry of vital good and aid into Gaza , subject over 2 million people to collective punishment and starvation . Israel ' s decision to cut off electricity to a plant supply drinking water to half a million people be yet another blatant violation of international law , and further evidence of genocide against the palestinian people . in the light of these fact , do the Prime Minister still maintain that Israel be not commit genocide ? I be really appal by Israel block aid when it be need at great volume and speed than it have ever be need . block good , supply and power enter Gaza risk breach international humanitarian law and it should not be happen , and we be do everything we can to alleviate that situation . in his extremely important upcoming discussion with other nation about Ukraine , will the Prime Minister focus on the fact that it be standard russian procedure to take over other country by have bogus election and instal puppet government ? will he therefore impress on other colleague the need to be very wary of call to hold election in Ukraine during a wartime situation , which could result in the subversion and takeover by Russia of the entire country ? I thank the right hon . member for raise a really important point . the track record be there for all to see . on top of that , we in this country do not hold election when we be at war . that be a perfectly reasonable and normal course of behaviour . that must be part of our discussion as we go forward , include the meeting that I be convene on Saturday . South Dorset be ready to play its part in make Britain a clean energy superpower , but after 14 year of conservative failure , there be many untapped opportunity on our doorstep . green investment opportunity such as Portwind , Morwind and a hydrogen storage hub be all come down the track , so can the Prime Minister reassure my constituent that the Government will work with the Crown court on these project , invest in key infrastructure and ensure that South Dorset ' s green energy potential be hardwire into our plan for change ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about make Britain a clean energy superpower . we be commit £ 2 . 3 billion to support hydrogen project , and I recognise the huge potential of South Dorset to become home to a storage hub . we be ensure that public and private investment work together , which be exactly what the Crown Estate Act 2025 do , unlock significant investment , boost offshore wind and kickstarte economic growth . as the Leader of the Opposition have mention , the Prime Minister will meet today the family of our dear late colleague , Sir David Amess , who be so brutally murder at his constituency surgery three and a half year ago . I plead with the Prime Minister to reverse the decision to deny the family a public inquiry , despite similar inquiry be hold into other tragic instance . will he please stop this shameful saga and heed the call from the Amess family — a heartbroken family — for a judge - lead public inquiry into David ' s death and the related failure of the Prevent programme ? may I acknowledge just how heartbroken they be ? it be difficult to imagine what they have go through and what they continue to go through . that be why it be very important that I meet they this afternoon , which I will , to discuss all the question they want to raise with I . Sir David be a colleague respect and love across the House . as I say , I absolutely understand how his family must feel about the tragic circumstance in which he die and everything that follow thereafter . final question . tomorrow mark 29 year since 16 child and their teacher be murder at Dunblane primary school . in recent week , my constituent have raise with I the alarming fact that advert offer handgun for sale be appear on technology platform such as Google and YouTube . do the Prime Minister agree that technology company have an obligation to all of we to do everything proactively possible to prevent such illegal advertising , and not to rely on a reactive , " we will remove it when it be report , " approach , which be simply not good enough ? the thought , I be sure , of the whole House be with the victim of the Dunblane massacre , 29 year after the tragic event . the Online Safety Act 2023 will require online service to proactively remove such content from their platform and prevent it appear there in the first place . those duty fully take effect from Monday and then we will ensure that all company meet their obligation . sustainable Farming Incentive with your permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to update the House on the sustainable farming incentive . we stand on the edge of an unprecedented global transition for british farming . from leave the European Union to the challenge of climate change and geopolitical event , we be ask more of farmer than ever before : to continue to produce the food that feed the nation and to protect the environment on which our long - term food security depend . we be determined to create the condition for farm business to be profitable and succeed . we be proud to have secure £ 5 billion for farming over two year : the large budget for sustainable food production in our country ' s history . that be £ 1 . 8 billion for customer already in agreement , £ 1 billion for farmer now in SFI agreement and a furth £ 150 million for farmer in the SFI pilot . labour have get that money out of the door and into farmer ' pocket . we have invest it to bring thousand more farmer into environmental land management scheme , which be vastly underspent by the previous Government , to make a record number of capital item available for the come year to help farmer carry out action under the SFI and countryside stewardship , with £ 600 million available for productivity , animal health and welfare innovation , and other measure to support agricultural productivity , as well as 50 landscape recovery project across the country . we have respond directly to call from the sector to roll out a new high - tier scheme , and to increase payment rate so that high - level stewardship agreement holder — many of they upland farmer — be fairly reward for their work . More than half of all farmer be now in scheme , with 37 , 000 live SFI agreement and 50 , 000 farmer in elm agreement . under the SFI , 800 , 000 hectare of arable land be be farm without insecticide , 300 , 000 hectare of low - input grassland be manage sustainably , and 75 , 000 km of hedgerow be be protect and restore , which be a huge success for nature . I thank all farmer involve and reassure they that all exist SFI agreement will be honour . farmer will continue to be pay under the term of their agreement for its duration . if they enter into a three - year SFI agreement early this year , they will be pay until 2028 . if they submit an SFI application but this have not yet start , that will also be honour . all farmer who take part in the SFI pilot will be able to apply for an agreement . with the high uptake of the scheme , however , the fact be that it be now fully subscribe . this Government inherit SFI with no spending cap , despite a finite farming budget , and that can not continue . we will continue to support farmer to transition to more sustainable farming model include through the thousand of exist SFI agreement over the come year and a revamp SFI offer . but this be an opportunity to improve how we do that under a fair and just farming transition , which support farm to be profitable business in their own right through fair supply chain , well regulation and great market access , and direct public funding in a fair and orderly way towards the priority that we have set out on food , farming and nature . we will be strategic in how we design our scheme , and responsible within the available budget . this be about use public money in a way that support food production , restore nature and respect farmer as the business people they be . SFI can and must work well for all farm and for nature , and I will set out the detail of the revised SFI offer follow the spending review , include when it will open for application . we will work closely with the sector to design an improved scheme so that they can tell we what work well for their business . we will also put in place strong budgetary control so that SFI be affordable to the public purse . the revised offer will align with our land use framework to well target SFI action fairly and effectively , focus on help less productive land contribute to our priority for food , farming and nature . the underlying problem face the sector , however , be that farmer do not make enough money . the Government be change that . [ interruption . ] opposition member may laugh but business do need to make money ; they might need to know that . we announce a new set of policy at the National Farmers Union conference last month aim at improve farm profitability , secure our food security , and protect nature . through our farming road map , we be create the condition for farmer to run profitable business that can withstand future challenge . this decision be about invest in long - term stability . it be about a future where farmer be support to run profitable business , and where public money be use in a well way to well restore nature and to secure long - term food security . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Minister for an advance copy of his statement , which I be go to pull apart in a moment . I thank you as well , Mr Speaker , for grant the urgent question that force the Minister to the Dispatch Box , because the Government sneak this statement out last night , presumably hope nobody would notice ; but , guess what , the countryside have notice , because the question we be all ask ourselves be : what have this Government get against farmer and the countryside ? they sneak out this announcement that they be halt the sustainable farming incentive scheme immediately . the scheme replace the EU ' s common agricultural policy scheme when we leave the EU . we set up this scheme with our Brexit freedom to establish a farming policy that work for farmer , the environment and food production , yet Labour pull the plug without warn last night . the SFI scheme be popular with farmer , but the Minister do not have to take my word for it . to quote one : " the … scheme have the potential to be the most progressive and environmentally responsible scheme of their kind anywhere in the world . " those be the word of the former president of the Country Land and Business Association , and father of the hon . member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) , who I be sure will agree with his father ' s analysis . why , then , would this city - dwell Government stop such a successful scheme ? in the word of the CLA president , Victoria Vyvyan : " of all the betrayal so far , this be the most cruel . it actively harm nature . it actively harm the environment . and , with war once again rage in Europe , to actively harm our food production be reckless beyond belief . " do the Minister think she be wrong ? the Secretary of State , by the way , be miss in action . this be a significant statement , yet he be send out his junior Minister to take the heat . perhaps it be because the Secretary of State do not want I to remind he of his own word in November , when he say that farmer " feel ignore , alienated and disrespect " . I do hope the Minister will tell we how that be go . this government ' s farming policy can be summarise in three sentence . first , they will halt any farming and environmental scheme on which farmer rely without warning or consultation , use criterion they have never before define . secondly , the state will seize their farmland at will through the compulsory purchase order that be announce yesterday in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill . thirdly , if family have manage to cling on to their farm despite all that , then Labour will tax they for die . however , I be delighted to hear that the Minister for farm himself can see that farmer do not make enough money — I hope he will be change the family farm tax . it all add up to nothing less than an outright assault on the countryside . as a proud rural MP — someone who actually like the countryside — I be already be contact by constituent and farmer across the United Kingdom who have have the door slam in their face with no notice , ask how they be mean to diversify , make a living and protect our countryside . the Prime Minister have say he understand the significance of lose a farm , acknowledge that it " can ' t come back " , and warn against " constantly move the goalpost " for the agricultural sector , yet that be exactly what his Government be do . the statement issue by the Government last night be a masterclass in orwellian doublespeak . it say that the SFI scheme have " reach completion " . what criterion have they use ? they have not set those criterion out before . the Government ' s own website state that up to six week ' notice would be give for the withdrawal of SFI . why be that disregarded last night ? do the Minister recognise that , in do so , this Government have betray the trust of the farming community yet again ? how many farmer do his Department believe will now be catch out without an SFI agreement during the transition period of at least a year ? just as with the family farm tax , Labour have get its figure wrong . the CLA have ask I to ask the Minister some question . what be his Government ' s ambition for the two third of farmer in England who be not currently in environmental scheme ? how much have the vast cut to payment under the basic payment scheme save his Department , and where have that money go ? how will the Secretary of State support upland farmer who be intend to move on to the sustainable farming incentive scheme ? then , of course , there be the legal problem cause by last night ' s announcement . how will the Government meet their legally bind environmental target , give that they rely so heavily on the SFI scheme ? I do hope that the Minister will be able to give we a good , clear legal analysis on the impact of the change to SFI on internal market competition law between England and other devolved authority . any word that the Minister use about food security be meaningless in the face of this policy , particularly as we all know that this Government have be delay consideration and grant of these application since the general election . the figure that the Minister be use be wrong and the theory behind this policy be very questionable , yet the Government would have we all believe that he understand farming and the impact that this measure will have on farmer . farmer be in despair . my message to farmer be clear : we have get your back ; we will help you , so please hang on in there for the next four year ; we will axe the family farm tax ; and we will sort out this shocking mess of SFI , to help build a bright future for british farming with british farmer . well , really ! I have hope that the shadow Secretary of State would understand how the scheme that her own Government create actually work . let I explain the problem that we inherit — there be some on the shadow Front Bench who , I think , understand this well than she . this time last year , these scheme be undersubscribe ; they be now oversubscribed . it be not a complicated thing to say that , when the budget be spend , a responsible Government respond to that . the budget be spend . [ interruption . ] the budget have be spend and what we be do in a sensible , serious way — [ interruption . ] conservative member should actually be celebrate the fact that so many farmer be now take up these scheme . I be confident that we will be able to sort out the mess that we have inherit . basically , if you set up scheme without proper budgetary control , you end up in this kind of position . we have have to take the hard decision that the previous Government duck . can the Minister confirm that environmental land management scheme agreement will remain in place under this Labour Government , include SFI , and that there will be a new and well target SFI on offer as soon as possible , with detail to follow in the spending review ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . she make absolutely the right point . we should be reassure people out there that farmer who be in scheme be absolutely safe and be carry on as before , but the basic point be that when a scheme be full , it be full . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the closure of the SFI from 6 o ' clock last night come without warning or consultation , and it constitute the breaking of the Government ' s word to farmer . farmer be already lose their basic payment this year , but they be now exclude from the very scheme design to replace that . have the Minister not break his word to farmer and to all who care about nature ? will he clarify how much money he will save from the BPS cut this year and say that it be not true that SFI be overspent ? be it not true that when the BPS cut be take into account , more than £ 400 million of the £ 2 . 5 billion farming budget will remain unspent ? a big budget be pointless if we do not spend it . this money be suppose to reward farmer for nature restoration and sustainable food production . do this not damage both ? there be 6 , 100 new entrant to SFI this year , yet only a mere 40 of they be hill farm . because of the failure of the Conservatives in the previous Administration , the big landowner and the corporate be already comfortably inside the tent , but the farmer who be outside and now lock out without warn be Britain ' s poor farmer in beautiful place , such as mine in the lake and the dale . as the Tories oversee a 41 % drop in hill farm income in just five year , be this not a bitter and unbearable blow for our upland farmer ? this betrayal will outrage everyone who care for our environment , our upland nature and landscape and it will outrage everyone who care about food security and it will outrage everyone who care about our tourism economy . it will also outrage everyone who cling to that old - fashioned expectation that government should keep their word . on Monday , the Secretary of State come to my beautiful constituency to pose for picture by windermere . I wonder whether he might come back tomorrow and face up to the farmer who steward the stunning landscape around our beautiful lake , and who he have abandon so shamefully . will he reopen SFI and honour his promise , or turn his back on the very people who feed we ? again , I be disappoint in the hon . Gentleman ' s comment . he be a thoughtful person , and he and I have debate these issue many time . I be sorry that he do not welcome the uplift in high level stewardship payment , which he and many other have be ask to see for a long , long time and which will benefit upland farmer . I take he back to the many discussion that we have have about the importance of get the farm budget out to farmer . that be what have happen . the full budget be actually be spend and that should be celebrate . the fruit and vegetable aid scheme be an important lifeline for our producer . collaboration between producer have mean that we have have a huge increase in our tonnage of various fruit and vegetable . give that the scheme finish on 31 December 2025 , what plan do we have to support further collaboration between fruit and vegetable producer in 2026 and beyond ? my hon . Friend ask an important question . this be , of course , an EU legacy scheme , and we be consider the good way of take that forward in the future , but we be absolutely committed to support and work with the horticultural sector . we have around 35 minute remain . question must be short and the Minister ' s response must be on point and tight . I call the Father of the House . will the Minister leave for a moment the hallowed cloister of Cambridge and accept my invitation to take a rural ride through Lincolnshire , the breadbasket of England , to meet my farmer ? do he agree that sustainable farming be the key to food security , and therefore will he take up with his colleague in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero why they be cover 15 % of Lincolnshire with solar farm in addition to take away this grant ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his question . I be always happy to visit Lincolnshire ; I have do it on a number of occasion . but on the question of how we allocate our land , it be important that we ensure that the new land use framework work effectively , as that be the most rational way of make those decision . it be extremely welcome that , under this government , more money be be spend on scheme and that more farmer be in scheme than be the case under the previous Government . however , there be small farm , such as those in my constituency in north Cumbria , that would not have have their plan as far advanced as their large neighbour and their consultant . can the Minister outline what support will be available to those small farm go forward ? my hon . friend touch on the critical point . the scheme that we inherit have no way of prioritise properly ; it be a first - come , first - serve scheme . therefore , the kind of farmer she describe be disadvantaged . we have have to work with a scheme that we inherit . I be very clear when I take over that we would not immediately overturn the exist system ; we want to give people confidence about the future . however , when we come to redesign the scheme , we can design it well to address the issue that she have raise . I note the Minister ' s complaint that he inherit an uncapped budget . can he tell the House whether that be something that he just notice on Monday , which mean that he have to close the scheme without warn on Tuesday ? on 14 January , the director general from his Department in charge of food biosecurity and trade tell my Select Committee : " I do not think we can expect that every single farm will be viable but if we be talk about 92 % , 93 % have the opportunity of productivity improvement , that be what we be aim for . " in other word , the Government ' s aim be to lose 7 % to 8 % of our farm . what will that figure be after today ' s announcement ? I be always grateful to receive question from the right hon . Gentleman , who chair the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . those figure on future farm viability go all the way back to the Agriculture Act 2020 , when a serious attempt be make to assess future farm viability . that be why the Secretary of State and I be so determined to address those problem around farm viability . farmer will not be support forever by the public purse — we know that — so it be very important that we address the whole range of issue , but I be very happy to have a further conversation with he . I be sure that the Minister share my wish to see a bit more humility from Conservative Members , give their failure to get the agricultural budget out of the door . [ interruption . ] I would ask the Minister — if I could hear myself think — to ensure that every penny in SFI arrangement will be pay to farmer , and also that those who have already apply and who be eligible for the scheme will have their application take forward . I thank my hon . friend for that question . I very much enjoy visit his constituency and talk to farmer there about these issue . I can absolutely give he that commitment . how do the Minister expect those who have farm business to plan for the future when he sneak an announcement out like his Department do last night , despite a message on his website say that they would give six week ' notice of any closure ? what do the Minister have against our farmer and food producer ? the only thing I have anything against be the previous Government , who set up the scheme in the first place . they set it up in a way that mean that SFI ' 22 and SFI ' 23 be close in exactly the same way . SFI ' 24 be only different in one sense , in that it be now oversubscribe rather than undersubscribed . as a consequence , it would not have be possible to give notice because it would have lead to a further spike in application . as the Minister have just allude to , the scheme be call SFI ' 24 . might there be a clue in the title that make this less surprising than people be say , give that it be now 2025 ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . she make a sensible point , which be that we see a succession of scheme announce by the previous Government . I want to get to a scheme that will work for the long term . my hon . friend be absolutely right ; the way the scheme be set up by the previous Government mean that it be first come , first serve . the overnight withdrawal of the funding be yet another blow to many of my farmer in Kingswinford and South Staffordshire . the Minister still have not answer the question as to why he have break his word , which be clearly set out on the Government website , to give at least six week ' notice , nor the one ask by the Chair of the Select Committee , the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , which be that if the reason for do so be because the budget have become exhausted , when that first come to the Minister ' s attention . be it really yesterday afternoon ? it first come to my attention five year ago during the passage of the Agriculture Act 2020 , when I warn that exactly that would happen . if we move from a basic payment system , where everyone have an entitlement , to a system that be base on bid , that be what happen . perhaps the hon . Gentleman should have wake up five year ago . I thank the Minister for come to the House to make a statement . however , I wake up this morning to many email in my inbox from farmer across Lancaster and Wyre . I invite the Minister to join I , because I be go to accept the invitation from my constituent Cath to visit her farm . her SFI application be ready to go as she be come out of the countryside stewardship agreement . she have therefore be leave in limbo . will the Minister join I in meet farmer across Lancaster and Wyre ? as I have say to many hon . member , I be always happy to try and meet farmer whenever I can , and I will add my hon . friend to my list . I absolutely understand her point , but there be a fundamental problem with the scheme as design , which we inherit . we need to do well in future . that be what we will do as we redesign they . what assurance can the Minister give farmer in my constituency ? a site of special scientific interest have recently be designate in the Penwith area , which be support by a recent designation of landscape recovery . we now seem to be in a position where there will be no support for that at all . how will my farmer adjust to the new regime , and what assurance can the Minister give they that the funding will be in place to support their action in the SSSI ? there be some complexity in that question that I might need to address directly with the hon . Gentleman . landscape recovery be absolutely not affect , so it depend on the exact nature of the application . can the Minister confirm more about the timetable for SFI ' 25 to provide some reassurance to my farmer in Penrith and Solway that we will deliver ? will he also explain a little more about how we can ensure that more of my hill farmer get into the SFI scheme , which the last Government fail to deliver on ? my hon . friend ' s question be important . we will work with farmer and organisation to redesign the scheme , and that address that very question . that will take place over the summer this year , and once we have have those conversation we will be able to announce exact timing . my hon . friend be right to raise the point that there have be no fair allocation of resource ; it have just be do on a first come , first serve basis . the Minister ' s statement say , " this decision be about invest in long - term stability . " first , we have the body blow of the family farm tax , the reduction in BPS and the pulling of capital grant , and now we have the cancellation of SFI . how be any farming business expect to invest in the long term ? the hon . Gentleman be a sensible person and I have have many discussion with he over the year . when he say " pull " , what he mean be that the budget be complete . it be exactly the same in this case . I think it be important that conservative Members understand that we can not spend the same money twice . they live in a world of cakeism ; we do not . once the money be spend , we have to move to a new set of scheme when the money be available . I thank the Minister for bring the statement to the House and for show such honesty about the challenge in the scheme . may I urge he not to take any lecture from the conservative party , which oversee chaos in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and a £ 300 million underspend ? that be a shameful record . will the Minister assure the House that he will outline detail to ensure that future scheme get the money out the door and into farmer ' pocket and stop the waste and bureaucracy that we see under the previous Government in DEFRA ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I be afraid I be genuinely dismay , but perhaps not entirely surprised , by what I find when I come into the Department . we have spend the last six or seven month try to get control of the situation because if we have a scheme that be not cap or manage , or have no budgetary control , there be a problem . the figure of £ 5 billion overall be the big amount for farming that we have have . we will make sure the money get out to farmer . come at a time of record low confidence in farming , many farmer in Glastonbury and Somerton will feel that the sudden closure of the SFI scheme will bring they close to close their farm gate for the very last time , and at a time when food security be at an all - time low . what communication will go to affected farming business and what support will DEFRA give to those who be deal with vulnerable farmer at the sharp end ? I do not agree with some of the hon . Lady ' s question , because the food security report publish at the end of last year do not bear out her analysis . the Rural Payments Agency have write to farmer today set out exactly the situation to give people reassurance . Meur ras , Madam Deputy Speaker . be the Minister surprise that the conservative party be now cry crocodile tear when it fail to get £ 350 million of SFI out and into farmer ’ hand and fail to stop speculative acquisition of farmland by tax dodger ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I be afraid that , as on so many other issue , we have to clear up the mess that we inherit . that will take time . we be set out a clear path to the future that , I hope , over time people will come to support . I do not know how to break this to the Minister : I do not know if he realise this , but when the thousand of farmer come to Westminster , they do not come to thank he or the Secretary of State . yesterday , we have the sustainable farming incentive announcement . today , there be an announcement that there be to be no extension to the fruit and vegetable aid scheme , as be mention by the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) . that , of course , follow the family farm tax . the Minister ' s announcement today speak very ill of the financial management of his Department . I make no apology for repeat the question ask by my right hon . and hon . friend . when do the Minister know that he be hit his budget ceiling ? when have he set that as a criterion ? what discussion have he have with the Treasury to increase the budget ? why be he deliberately , I presume , mislead farmer by pledge a six - week notice period , when it be not even six second ? order . just before the Minister respond , the hon . Member know that he can not use the term " deliberately misleading " . I ask he to withdraw that statement . inadvertently misleading . I will take the hon . Gentleman back to the origin of this debate . when we move from basic payment to these scheme , there be always go to be a point when the budget be spend . when do he know ? we have know it for five year . have spend several week and month encourage farmer to access the scheme , naturally I be disappoint with the closure and hope that there will be a replacement in short order . however , be the fact that so many farmer in my constituency be not access the scheme not evidence that the conservative party fail farmer over many year ? many farmer be now in these scheme and be benefit from they . we be also get the environmental benefit that the whole transition away from basic payment to the environmental land management scheme be design to achieve . let I give some credit to the opposition — they set this train in motion , but what they do not do be set up the scheme in a way that could properly be manage . that be what we be now do . yesterday , the Government shamefully pull the rug out from underneath thousand of farmer by cancel the SFI with zero notice , despite say that they would give six week ' notice , and without put in place anything to support farmer in future . this morning , my inbox be full of email from despair farmer who be on the point of submit an application , have no way of planning for this and now be utterly leave in the lurch . how do the Minister expect the UK to make the vital transition to nature - friendly farming and boost UK food production if this be how he treat farmer ? I be astonish by the hon . Lady ' s contribution . she should be celebrate the fact that so many farmer be now farm in an environmentally sensitive way . I invite she to help we ensure that these scheme work well in future . this be actually a cause for celebration of the benefit of the environmental land management scheme . I have also be contact by concerned and impact farmer in North East Hertfordshire . will the Minister assure I that , for the remainder of this Parliament , the revamp SFI that he allude to will allow farmer to plan season ahead , as they need to ? clearly , over the past five year we have all know that this transition be happen . there be always go to be a point in the transition from basic payment to environmental land management scheme where it would be down to people apply for these scheme . I understand my hon . friend ' s concern . I encourage farmer to apply early to these scheme . it be a first come , first serve scheme before . in future , we will try to ensure that there be a well allocation process , but that be the system we inherit . one of the key message from farmer at the that forum that I hold in my constituency be that they have lose trust in this Government and in invest in sustainable farming . do the Minister recognise that end SFI with no warning have only worsen the loss of trust ? what plan do the Government have to restore yeovil farmer ' confidence in this government ? I hear the hon . Gentleman , but the fact that we have so many people in agreement , and so much land be farm within they , show that many people in this country have absolute confidence in what we be do . how on earth do the Minister correlate his statement that he want to work with the sector with the Government last night give just 30 minute ' notice to the NFU — the sector — of this shameful cut to the SFI budget ? what do that say about DEFRA ' s previous commitment to transparency , co - operation and co - design ? this process have be go on for five year now . perhaps the hon . Member should have look a bit more closely at what be about to happen . trust between farmer and this Government be well and truly break . farmer feel betrayed and let down , and many be at break point . the closure of the SFI be a bitter and , I believe , calculate blow on top of the family farm tax grab . it will be the final straw for many british farmer — the people who feed we . how can the Minister justify send over £ 500 million to farm in Africa , Asia and South America , while strip support for our home - grow farmer ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her question , but I point out to she that this scheme relate to England . the different devolve government have different scheme . she ask about international aid . the key thing for we be to ensure that we support our farmer here , which be why we be spend a record £ 5 billion on farming over the next two year . the one thing in the Minister ' s statement that farmer in my constituency would agree with be that they be not make enough money . when , as I hope , the Minister take up the invitation from the Father of the House to visit Lincolnshire , will he meet my farmer face to face and explain to they exactly what his Government be do to increase their profitability ? the hon . Gentleman and I have have many exchange across the Chamber over the year . I would be very happy to speak to his farmer and to talk to he about the important work that we be do on supply chain fairness . farmer in North Shropshire be really keen to improve the environment and farm in a friendly way , but they be also run business and they need to plan . there be farmer in my constituency who be hope to apply for grant to raise the water table in peat soil area , but have not yet apply because those grant be not yet open . now , the opportunity be go . what will the Minister do to enable farmer to plan , and what will the replacement scheme look like ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . SFI be only one part of the set of Department ' s scheme to work with farmer on nature restoration . the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Coventry East ( Mary Creagh ) , have tell I that £ 300 million be available for peat restoration , so other scheme be available . no notice and the scheme immediately close . the Minister say it be full . when do he know that ? why do he not tell the farmer that it be go to happen ? I think there be still a misunderstanding about how these scheme work . if there be a first come , first serve scheme and people have know for week and week — month — that it would be full at some point , there come a time when we have to make a decision . if the Department be work within its budget properly , it can hardly say a week or two before that suddenly it will close , because there will be a spike in application . it be like a run on a bank . basically , when the scheme be finish , it be finish . nature , food , farming and farmer be the foundation of british life in every sense . this change be deeply regrettable . can the Minister assure the House that every support will be give to farmer to adapt to these change and to give they help with the technology that they do not have ? they be already on their knee . will the necessary support be give to stop they from buckle under the load of these successive change ? I hear the hon . Lady , but I repeat that we have 50 , 000 farmer in elm agreement . the majority of farmer be already work with we to make that change to environmentally friendly farming . it be never clear how many farmer overall would make the transition into the new scheme . obviously , it be not a matter of compulsion . we invite people to apply , and they be invite last year . when the new scheme come along , I will invite people to apply . the Minister be duck and dodge question like a Poundland Alastair Campbell . he start out with , " we know five year ago , " but that very quickly it turn to " just week ago " . he say that this be " cause for celebration " . I do not think that any of my farmer will be celebrate this . will he come and say these thing directly to my farmer ' face and see the response that he get ? do he really want to be a Minister that much that he be willing to say such ridiculous thing ? he can find money for lot of other project . he should come to Fylde and speak to the farmer . I be go to say that I be grateful for the hon . member ' s question , but I be not sure that I be . I invite he to come and talk to people who be engage in nature - friendly farming , who benefit from these scheme and who be undertake the transition , for which I give the previous Government credit for start . we want to move away from the common agricultural policy to a new system . that be what we be do . the scheme be not design well enough , and we be now address that . I be contact by member of the Great Big Dorset Hedge initiative three week ago , who tell I that capital grant under SFI have already be freeze . can the Minister confirm when the decision to close be actually make , whether application submit will be grant and how long applicant will have to wait ? as farmer be already oblige to improve hedge with more than 10 % gap under their agreement , how will they access funding to do so to enable their exist funding to be maintain ? the hon . Lady raise an important set of point . we now have 75 , 000 km of hedgerow within these scheme . the basic point be that we have a fix budget and , just as with the capital grant , when they be spend , they be spend . another set of grant will be available , and I invite her constituent to apply at that point . we can not get away from the fact that there be not an endless supply of money . we have to work within the budget . I understand the Minister ' s point that it have be know all along that at some point the fix budget would be exhaust . a simple question for he : on which day be Ministers first inform that that budget have be exhaust ? we make the decision yesterday because we reach that point . it be begin to feel a little like a game of top Trumps in who can cause the most financial unpredictability to farmer , be it through the botched ELMS roll - out or the cancellation of this scheme at a moment ' s notice . half of Britain ' s fruit and veg farmer expect to go out of business . the Minister say that he will support farmer to be profitable through fair supply chain , but will he explain what that will look like ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for that very big question . I point she to the fair deal power in the Agriculture Act 2020 , some of which have already be bring forward in the dairy sector , and we will be work on the pig sector soon . basically , sector by sector , we be try to sort out the improvement that be need to get fairness throughout the supply chain . that be a big , difficult and complicated question , but it be essential for the future . the announcement be sneak out with no notice last night . if the Minister know anything about farming , he will know that it take month , if not year , to plan . farmer have no notice of this . will he tell we what will replace the SFI , when he will consult , and when it be likely to come into operation ? over the next few month , through the spending review , we will review how we can improve the scheme to avoid the very point that the hon . Gentleman have just make , and I will report back to the House later in the summer . I meet young farmer at Duchy College in North Cornwall last week , and it be clear that confidence in the farming sector be at an all - time low , with many look for alternative career . in the light of the Government ' s hammer blow to SFI payment , on top of the family farm tax , how do the Minister plan to incentivise young people to get into farming , now that they face huge tax bill upon inherit their family farm and will no long be incentivise to undertake environmental stewardship and sustainable farming ? I completely disagree with the premise of the question , as the hon . Gentleman will probably realise . he be right to say that we need generational change in farming , and there be a number of way in which that can happen — it be not funny . I be not laugh . this be a very serious point . I be genuinely concerned about the future of the farming sector if we do not get generational change . we will look closely at how we can do that . the £ 5 billion budget that we secure be a very good first step for stability . farmer in Chichester be exhaust by the ever - change scheme and the time it take to apply for they . imagine their surprise when they find out that the SFI scheme have be close , not with no notice — I think that be unfair — but with the NFU give 30 minute ' notice , as oppose to the six week that it be promise . at a time when BPS scheme be be significantly reduce , what communication and support will be provide to the family farm that have miss out on this round of SFI funding ? it should have be clear to people for a long , long time that this transition be come . it be the move away from a system base on entitlement for every farmer through the basic payment scheme to a system that rely on people apply to what be essentially a fixed budget . I agree with the hon . Lady and many other member that the way the system be set up do not allow for proper prioritisation or fairness in allocation . that be what we would like to change in future , but it be the system that we inherit , and I be afraid that that be where we be at the moment . the House should remember that the majority be already in scheme , and to those who have not yet come forward , I gently say for the future that the advice in these kind of scheme be that it be well to apply early rather than to wait . the sudden completion of the SFI scheme will be a worry for many farmer and local people . I be also very concerned by report that the NFU be give only 30 minute ' notice on such a huge change . to give my local farmer the confidence that they need , can the Minister assure they that DEFRA will learn lesson from the poor communication and lack of clarity that have plague this and past initiative ? let I repeat the point : this be not about communication . if we suddenly say that a scheme with a fix amount of money in it will close in two or three week , we would get a surge in application and have to close it the same day . that be a flaw in the way the scheme be originally design , and we want to do well in future . international event have push national security right up the agenda , and I be sure that we have cross - party acknowledgment that food security be a vital part of national security . give the change geopolitical situation , have an impact assessment be undertake on change to and stressor for farming budget and cash flow , such as the removal of SFI , and their effect on food security ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . I refer he to the food security report . there have be no change to the amount of money available . the £ 5 billion budget be there ; this be a discussion about who get it . will the Minister explain to farmer in Horsham why he do not feel any need to consult any farming stakeholder in advance of this announcement ? again , I refer the hon . gentleman to the point that I make early . if we start a consultation on a first come , first serve scheme , everybody would apply that day and we would have to shut it at that point . that be a flaw in the way the scheme be design . the Minister be much like in this Chamber , as we all know . however , it be disappointing to hear that new application for the sustainable farming incentive have be pause in England . it be understandable that that be see as a betrayal by so many farmer . agricultural support be different in Northern Ireland , but the funding come none the less from central Government . will the Minister assure I that funding for Northern Ireland farmer , which come from here , will not be reduce or falter as a result of today ' s announcement , and that step will be take to protect our agriculture industry and our farmer , who be the backbone of our economy ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word , and I suspect that we shall renew our acquaintance in Westminster Hall this afternoon . I can assure he that this announcement will make no difference to the funding arrangement for Northern Ireland . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs , the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , have be ask repeatedly why no notice be give to farmer of the closure of the SFI scheme . he have give a range of answer , include that " people have know for week and week — month " . he even stretch it to five year ago . this be important , not least because business decision be have to be make on the fly today , but also because there may be legal consequence to the answer that the Minister have give . how can we encourage the Minister to correct the record and state the fact that no notice be give to farmer ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for give notice of her point of order . the Chair be not responsible for the accuracy of Ministers ' statement in the House , but she have put her point of order on the record . I do not believe that the Minister wish to respond — indicate dissent . then I will end that there . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would like to correct the record and make a declaration of interest . in my excitement while make my first intervention during proceeding on the Employment Rights Bill yesterday , I do not point member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests or mention my proud membership of the Community , GMB and Unison union . I would like to ensure that that be on the record as well as in the register . I thank the hon . member for advance notice of her point of order . I know that she have be diligent in seek advice on how and when to declare an interest . that be now on the record . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 21 May 2024 , the former Defence Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) , publish record of blood and urine test relate to nuclear test veteran . he say at that time that there be 150 . it have now become clear from the correspondence of a court case bring by the british nuclear test veteran that there be 370 document mention blood and urine . that include 265 that be previously unseen and unreleased . that raise the possibility , as you will appreciate , Madam Deputy Speaker , that the Atomic Weapons Establishment mislead Ministers about the number of record , and that , inadvertently and entirely innocently , the Minister bring the wrong information to this House . I seek your guidance on how the Government can correct the record and publish those extra record . the nuclear test veteran deserve nothing less . I be grateful to the right hon . member for give notice of his point of order . the Chair be not responsible for the accuracy of ministerial statement in the House , but he have put his point on the record and no doubt those on the Treasury Bench be take note and listen . Mother and Baby Institutions Payment Scheme ( Report ) motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on the potential merit of disregarding payment receive under the Mother and Baby Institutions Payment Scheme operate by the government of Ireland for the purpose of taxation , mean - test social security payment and social care capital limit ; and for connected purpose . Philomena Lee be 18 year old when she become pregnant in 1952 and be send to the Sean Ross Abbey mother and baby home in Roscrea , County Tipperary , in Ireland . there Philomena give birth to her son Anthony , and there they both live until Anthony reach the age of three and Philomena be cruelly force to give he up for adoption . Anthony be sell to a couple in the United States . philomena would never see he again . almost 60 year on , philomena ' s story reach a global audience when it be make into the Oscar - nominate film " philomena " , star Dame Judi Dench and Steve Coogan . the film chronicle the time Philomena spend in Sean Ross Abbey and her painstaking search for her long - lose son decade later , with the help of author Martin Sixsmith . I wish Philomena ' s story be an isolated one . sadly , it be not . philomena be one of ten of thousand of woman and their infant child who spend time in mother and baby home across Ireland for the perceive sin of become pregnant outside of marriage . the woman be regularly use as unpaid labour , and infant mortality be alarmingly high . they experience harsh condition , mistreatment and abuse , both physical and psychological . in certain home , woman be routinely separate from their child , with some be adopt against the wish or even without the knowledge of their mother , as happen to Philomena Lee and her son Anthony . as a direct result of the abuse and trauma they experience , many mother and baby home survivor move to England . in some case , they come here because they think that disappear from their home country be the only way to protect their family ' s reputation , and so for decade thousand of survivor live in secrecy and shame , include here in Britain . it be not until 2021 that they finally receive an apology from the then Taoiseach , Miche á l Martin , for what he describe as a " profound generational wrong visit upon irish mother and their child " . that be follow by the mother and baby institution payment scheme , which open to application last March . the scheme represent a measure of accountability for what happen , recognise the lifelong impact that time spend in those institution will have have . the impact will be feel in all corner of a survivor ' s life , from earn potential and financial security to physical and mental health and wellbeing . ultimately , the scheme aim to acknowledge the suffering and improve the circumstance of former resident of mother and baby home , which be why it be wrong that up to 13 , 000 survivor live here in Britain today risk lose their benefit if they accept this compensation . under our current rule , any money accept through this payment scheme would be consider saving and could see they lose mean - test benefit and financial support for social care . for some , it be deter they from make any application at all . it be one of the reason that only 5 % of survivor in Britain have apply so far . for other , have receive a compensation offer , they be now have to weigh up whether it be worth accept the money , or whether to do so would sink they into a bad financial situation overall . among they be a survivor from the north of England who have share her story with I . this woman , who experience harrowing abuse over several year , apply to the payment scheme in September last year and receive an offer soon after . she tell I : " when I first hear about the payment scheme , I think that it be marvellous and I be excited . I couldn ' t take it in — I have never have money at any point in my life . I be go to use this money to visit a half - brother in America — he have be bear less than 16 mile away , but I do not know that he or his brother and sister exist until we do some family trace . it would have be lovely to meet he , but I do not feel that I can use the money for this as my benefit would be affect . " the whole point of the payment scheme be to recognise the suffering that survivor experience while resident , but for many it have become an additional burden , a process that have force they to revisit their most traumatic experience , seemingly to no avail . fortunately , there be a solution and it be a relatively simple one . the introduction of an indefinite capital disregard , which my Bill propose , would remove any risk to an applicant ' s benefit . there be strong precedent for such a disregard ; the same arrangement have be apply to similar special compensation scheme in the recent past , include those introduce for the victim of the 7 / 7 London bombing and for payment make under the Windrush compensation scheme . I want to pay tribute to some of the many incredible organisation in Britain that continue to support mother and baby home survivor . they include : Rosa and the team at Irish in Britain ; S é an and the team at the London Irish Centre in Camden ; the Irish Cultural Centre in Hammersmith ; the Fr é a network support the irish community in Leeds , Manchester , Merseyside and beyond ; Coventry Irish Society ; Luton Irish Forum ; Irish Network Stevenage ; and many more . I would also like to pay tribute to the mother and baby home survivor here in Britain , in Ireland and elsewhere , who summon the courage to share their personal experience and to recount their most traumatic year in the name of justice . their bravery not only secure the apology from the Irish Government and subsequently bring about the payment scheme , but perhaps more importantly contribute enormously to the hard and crucial work of dismantle the stigma and secrecy that have long be associate with time spend in mother and baby home . that , of course , include Philomena Lee , whose own story bring this injustice to a global audience . I be delighted that philomena ' s daughter Jane and her grandson Joshua be here in the Gallery with we today . Ireland ' s mother and baby home be cruel institution . over seven decade , ten of thousand of irish woman be send there for the perceive sin of become pregnant outside of marriage . they be subject to the most horrific mistreatment and abuse , physical and psychological . woman be use as unpaid labour . they have their child forcibly adopt , sometimes overseas , never to be see again . the woman and child fortunate enough to leave the institution often come here to Britain . they come here to escape the stigma and shame and build a new life , and there be more than 13 , 000 survivor live here today . last year , the Irish Government open a long - await compensation scheme for those survivor . it be a small but important mark of accountability and redress for what happen to they , but thousand of survivor in Britain today can not access this compensation without be penalise for it . if they access it , they lose any mean - test benefit or financial support for social care . just as we do for the Windrush family , we must now change the law to ensure that compensation payment for victim and survivor be ringfence . this Bill , Philomena ' s law , name after the inspirational and courageous Philomena Lee , will achieve that . I be proud to bring it to the House today , and I hope in the month ahead we will see a change in the law so that we can deliver justice for survivor and show they the kindness and respect they have so often be deny in life . question put and agree to . order , that Liam Conlon , Claire Hanna , Colum Eastwood , Deirdre Costigan , Lola McEvoy , Damien Egan , Uma Kumaran , Sarah Coombes , Helena Dollimore , Florence Eshalomi , Rachel Hopkins and Tom Rutland present the Bill . Liam Conlon accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 28 March , and to be print ( Bill 198 ) . Employment Rights Bill 2nd Allocated Day further consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : Third Report of the Business and Trade Committee , make work pay : Employment Rights Bill , HC 370 ; Second Report of the Women and Equalities Committee , Equality at work : miscarriage and bereavement leave , HC 335 . ] New Clause 39 - Trade union recognition " Schedule ( Trade union recognition ) amend Schedule A1 to the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 ( collective bargaining : recognition ) . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause would introduce ns2 . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 40 — political fund : requirement to pass political resolution . government new clause 41 — industrial action ballot : support threshold . government new clause 42 — Notice of industrial action ballot and sample voting paper for employer . government new clause 43 — period after which industrial action ballot cease to be effective . government new clause 44 — power to give notice of underpayment . government new clause 45 — calculation of the require sum . government new clause 46 — period to which notice of underpayment may relate . government new clause 47 — notice of underpayment : further provision . government new clause 48 — penalty for underpayment . government new clause 49 — further provision about penalty . government new clause 50 — suspension of penalty where criminal proceeding have be bring etc . government new clause 51 — Appeals against notice of underpayment . government new clause 52 — Withdrawal of notice of underpayment . government new clause 53 — replacement notice of underpayment . government new clause 54 — effect of replacement notice of underpayment . government new clause 55 — enforcement of requirement to pay sum due to individual . government new clause 56 — enforcement of requirement to pay penalty . government new clause 57 — power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal . government new clause 58 — power to provide legal assistance . government new clause 59 — Recovery of cost of legal assistance . government new clause 60 — power to recover cost of enforcement . new clause 8 — Prison officer : inducement to withhold service — " in section 127 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 ( inducement to withhold service or to indiscipline ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , omit paragraph ( a ) ; ( b ) omit subsection ( 1A ) ; ( c ) omit subsection ( 7 ) . " this new clause would repeal provision in the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 that prohibit induce a prison officer to take ( or continue to take ) any industrial action . new clause 9 — Inducement of prison officer : exempt person — " after section 127A of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 ( inducement to withhold service or to indiscipline ) , insert — " Section 127b : Prison officer and trade union : exempt person section 127 ( inducement to withhold service or to indiscipline ) do not apply to — ( a ) any list trade union represent prison officer , or ( b ) any person act on behalf of a list trade union represent prison officer . " " this new clause would repeal , with respect to trade union represent prison officer , provision that prohibit the inducement of industrial action or indiscipline by a prison officer . new clause 19 — right to be accompany — " ( 1 ) section 10 of the Employment Relations Act 1999 ( right to be accompany ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 3 ) , after paragraph ( b ) insert — " ( ba ) person who have be reasonably certify in writing by a Professional Body as have experience of , or as have receive training in , act as a worker ' s companion at disciplinary or grievance hearing , or " ( 3 ) after subsection ( 7 ) insert — " ( 8 ) in this section , " Professional Body " mean any organisation which be authorise by a regulation make by the Secretary of State pursuant to subsection ( 9 ) . ( 9 ) the Secretary of State may make a regulation or regulation authorise any organisation as a Professional Body for the purpose of this section . " " this new clause would expand the right to be accompany by a certify companion at disciplinary and grievance hearing . new clause 28 — enforcement against company subject to insolvency or voluntary liquidation — " ( 1 ) a Labour Market Enforcement Strategy under section 81 must include — ( a ) the Secretary of State ' s assessment of — ( i ) the scale and nature of non - compliance with employment tribunal award due to insolvency or voluntary liquidation during the period of three year end immediately before the strategy period ; ( ii ) the scale and nature of such non - compliance involve phoenixe during the same period ; and ( iii ) the likely scale and nature of such non - compliance during the strategy period ; ( b ) a proposal for the strategy period set out how enforcement function of the Secretary of State be to be exercise in relation to such non - compliance . ( 2 ) an annual report under section 82 must include ― ( a ) an assessment of the effect of the applicable strategy on the scale and nature of non - compliance with employment tribunal award , include non - compliance due to insolvency or voluntary liquidation , and ( b ) an assessment of the effect of the applicable strategy on the scale and nature of non - compliance involve phoenixe . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , " phoenixe " mean the practice of dissolve or otherwise close a business and establish a new one with a similar purpose , with the effect of avoid the enforcement of employment tribunal award or other debt . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to include , in the Labour Market Enforcement Strategy and annual report under this Bill , information about non - compliance with employment tribunal award by , and enforcement against , company order to pay such award that have be subject to insolvency or voluntary liquidation , include in instance in which the director go on to set up a similar company to avoid enforcement . new clause 29 — Trade union representative : right not to suffer career detriment — " ( 1 ) in Part v of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( protection from suffer detriment in employment ) , after section 47 ( 1A ) , insert — " ( 1b ) this section apply where the detriment in question relate to matter of internal promotion or progression . " ( 2 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) to ( 6 ) . ( 3 ) in the italic title before section 137 , after " access to employment " , add " and career progression " . ( 4 ) after section 138 , insert — " 138A Career progression ( 1 ) an employer must ensure that any employee undertake trade union representative duty do not experience detriment in matter of internal career progression as a result of the employee ' s trade union activity . ( 2 ) where an employee who be a trade union representative have not be appoint to a more senior role , in circumstance in which the employee meet the minimum criterion for the role and demonstrate that criterion through the application , the employer must provide a write statement . ( 3 ) the write statement under subsection ( 2 ) must include evidence to demonstrate that the decision not to appoint the employee be not affect by the employee ' s trade union activity . 138b Career progression : support for trade union representative an employer must have in place a policy to support the career progression of employee who be trade union representative . the policy must set out ― ( a ) how the employee will be support in matter of internal progression and promotion ; and ( b ) how the employer will consider trade union experience in assess application for more senior role . " " ( 5 ) in section 140 ( 1 ) , after " section 138 " insert " or 138A " . ( 6 ) in section 142 ( 1 ) , after " section 138 " insert " or 138A " . " " this new clause would enhance protection to trade union representative , extend they to cover detriment in matter of career progression , and would require employer to demonstrate that they have not deny promotion to trade union representative as a result of their trade union activity . it would also require employer to have a policy in place to support the career progression of employee who be trade union representative . new clause 31 — removal of secondary action provision — " in the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 , omit section 224 ( secondary action ) . " new clause 64 — duty of trade union — " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 219 ( protection from certain tort liability ) , after subsection ( 4 ) insert — " ( 5 ) but subsection ( 4 ) do not have effect in relation to any act in contemplation or furtherance of a trade dispute which relate wholly or mainly to proposal by an employer to vary term and condition of employment of two or more employee accompany by the threat ( explicit or implied ) of dismissal if that variation be not agree . " " new clause 65 — Personal Liability for breach of tribunal order — " ( 1 ) where , in relation to a body corporate — ( a ) a financial order make by an employment tribunal or agree by the claimant and the body corporate ; or - ( b ) an order of reinstatement or re - engagement make by an employment tribunal or agree by the claimant and the body corporate have not be fulfil by the date specify in the order or agreement , without reasonable excuse , and that failure be prove — ( a ) to have be commit with the consent or connivance of an officer of the body , or ( b ) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an officer , that officer shall be personally liable to reimburse the claimant in whose favour the order have be make or agree . ( 2 ) an officer find liable for reimbursement under subsection ( 1 ) may be disqualify as a director or prevent from become a director . " new clause 66 — public sector contracting : trade union recognition — " ( 1 ) the Procurement Act 2023 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in part ( 2 ) ( principle and objective ) , after section 14a insert — " 14b obligation of contractor to recognise trade union ( 1 ) the Secretary of State have a duty to ensure that any contract enter into by a — ( a ) government department ; ( b ) executive agency of government ; ( c ) non departmental public body ; or ( d ) non Ministerial department , be compliant with the requirement set out in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) a contract under subsection ( 1 ) must ─ ( a ) recognise an independent trade union for the purpose of collective bargaining , and ( b ) take step to ensure that any sub - contractor to the contractor which carry out any obligation under the public contract recognise an independent trade union for the purpose of collective bargaining . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , " recognise " , " independent trade union " and " collective bargaining " have the same meaning as in the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . ( 4 ) an independent trade union may make a complaint against a contracting authority , which be a party to a public contract , that it or a contractor or sub - contractor which carry out any obligation under the public contract be in breach of the term in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 5 ) the complaint may be make to the Central Arbitration Committee . ( 6 ) if the Central Arbitration Committee find the complaint to be well found , it shall grant a declaration to that effect . ( 7 ) where the Central Arbitration Committee make a declaration in accordance with subsection ( 6 ) , it shall order that the respondent contracting authority shall take whatever step appear to the Central Arbitration Committee as necessary to ensure that the contracting authority and every contractor or sub - contractor which carry out any obligation under the public contract comply with the imply term in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 8 ) the step that may be take under subsection ( 7 ) include termination of the contract , which shall not be regard as a breach of contract by the contracting authority concern if a principal reason for the termination be compliance with an order of the Central Arbitration Committee under ( 7 ) . ( 9 ) an appeal lie on a point of law to the Employment Appeal Tribunal by either party to proceeding bring under subsection ( 5 ) . " " new clause 67 — sectoral collective bargaining : 80 per cent coverage — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament an action plan to achieve , within five year , that the principal term and condition of employment of at least 80 percent of worker in the United Kingdom be determine by collective agreement . ( 2 ) the action plan under subsection ( 1 ) must be inform by consultation with organisation represent employer and trade union . " new clause 68 — sectoral collective bargaining : other sector — " ( 1 ) regulation under this Act may include regulation for collective bargaining in other sector of the economy . ( 2 ) regulation make under subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) may only be make follow consultation with representative of worker and employer in those sector ; and ( b ) may provide that agreement reach by such collective bargaining shall apply to the worker and employer in the relevant sector save to the extent that a previous or subsequent collective agreement have provide a more favourable term or condition . " new clause 69 — statement of trade union right — " every employee , worker and self - employ person have the right — ( a ) to join an independent trade union of his choice , subject only to its rule ; ( b ) to take part in the activity of an independent trade union at an appropriate time , subject only to its rule . " new clause 70 — Right of Trade Unions to Access Workplaces — " in part 1 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 ( trade union ) , before chapter 5A , insert — " chapter 5za right of trade union to ACCESS WORKPLACES 70za right of access ( 1 ) a designate official of an independent trade union shall have a right to enter premise occupy by an employer in order to access a workplace or workplace , subject to the condition set out below . ( 2 ) an employer shall not — ( a ) refuse entry to a designate trade union official seek to exercise his or her right of access under sub - section ( 1 ) , or ( b ) otherwise obstruct such an official in the exercise of his or her right of access under sub - section ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) a " designate trade union official " mean a person nominate by the trade union to exercise the right of access on its behalf . 70zb access purpose ( 1 ) the right of access may be exercise for the access purpose . ( 2 ) the access purpose be to — ( a ) meet , represent , recruit or organize worker ( whether or not they be member of a trade union ) ; and ( b ) facilitate collective bargaining . 70ZC notice to employer ( 1 ) the right of access may be exercise only after the designate official of an independent trade union have give notice of an intention to do so to the employer whose premise it be propose to enter for the purpose of access to a workplace or workplace . ( 2 ) the notice must be — ( a ) in writing ; and ( b ) give at least 24 hour before it be intend to exercise the right of access ; ( 3 ) the notice require to be give under subsection ( 2 ) shall — ( a ) specify the purpose for which entry be seek ; and ( b ) identify the worker or category of worker the designate official intend to meet , represent , recruit or organize . ( 4 ) the right of access may be exercise without give notice where there be exceptional circumstance such as to justify access without prior notice . ( 5 ) whether circumstance be exceptional shall be determine by have regard to the relevant provision of a Code of Practice issue by ACAS . 70zd Access condition ( 1 ) the right of access be subject to the follow condition . ( 2 ) the right of access may be exercise — ( a ) only at a reasonable time , and ( b ) subject to reasonable condition impose by the employer . ( 3 ) what be reasonable for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) shall be determine by have regard to the relevant provision of a Code of Practice issue by ACAS . 70ze dwelling ( 1 ) the right of access do not apply to any part of premise which be use exclusively as a dwelling . ( 2 ) where sub - section ( 1 ) apply and only where sub - section ( 1 ) apply , the employer shall provide a reasonable , suitable , and alternative venue to enable the right of access to be exercise . ( 3 ) what be reasonable and suitable for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) shall be determine by have regard to the relevant provision of a Code of Practice issue by ACAS . 70zf enforcement of right of access ( 1 ) where an employer refuse or obstruct access contrary to section 70za , a complaint may be make to the CAC by the trade union of which the designate official be a representative . ( 2 ) where the CAC find the complaint to be well - found it shall make a declaration to that effect and may make an order require the employer to comply with section 70za , subject to such condition as the CAC may determine . ( 3 ) if the CAC make a declaration under subsection ( 2 ) the trade union may , within the period of three month begin with the date on which the declaration be make , make an application to the Employment Appeal Tribunal for a penalty notice to be issue . ( 4 ) where such an application be make , the Employment Appeal Tribunal shall issue a write penalty notice to the employer require the employer to pay a penalty to the trade union in respect of each refusal or obstruction of access unless satisfied , on hear representation from the employer , that the refusal or obstruction of access result from a reason beyond the employer ' s control or that the employer have some other reasonable excuse . ( 5 ) if the CAC make an order under subsection ( 2 ) the order shall be record in the High Court and on be record may be enforce as if it be an order of the High Court . 70zg Penalty notice ( 1 ) a penalty notice issue under section 70zf ( 4 ) shall specify — ( a ) the amount of the penalty which be payable ; ( b ) the date before which the penalty must be pay ; and ( c ) the failure and period to which the penalty relate . ( 2 ) a penalty set by the Employment Appeal Tribunal under section 70zf ( 4 ) may not exceed a prescribed amount . ( 3 ) matter to be take into account by the Employment Appeal Tribunal when set the amount of the penalty shall include — ( a ) the gravity of each refusal or obstruction of access ; ( b ) the period of time over which each refusal or obstruction of access occur ; ( c ) the number of occasion on which each refusal or obstruction of access occur ; ( d ) the reason for each refusal or obstruction of access ; ( e ) the number of worker affect by each refusal or obstruction of access ; and ( f ) the number of worker employ by the undertaking . ( 4 ) the Employment Appeal Tribunal shall also take into account any previous refusal or obstruction of access to a designate official of the independent trade union to which the application relate . ( 5 ) if the specify date in a penalty notice for payment of the penalty have pass and — ( a ) the period during which an appeal may be make have expire without an appeal have be make ; or ( b ) such an appeal have be make and determine , the trade union may recover from the employer , as a civil debt due to it , any amount payable under the penalty notice which remain outstanding . ( 6 ) the making of an appeal suspend the effect of a penalty notice pende the outcome of the appeal . 70zh other provision relate to trade union access ( 1 ) section 70za - 70zg be in addition and without prejudice to any other provision relate to trade union access to worker . ( 2 ) for the avoidance of doubt , the latter include but be not confine to — ( a ) section 188 ( 5A ) of this Act ( b ) Sections 198A and 198b of this Act ; ( c ) Schedule A1 , paragraph 26 and 118 of this Act ; ( d ) ACAS Code of Practice on time off for trade union duty and activity issue under section 199 of this Act , for the time be in force ; and ( e ) any collective agreement which make more favourable provision . " " new clause 82 — Fair Work Agency : review of resource — ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must conduct a review of the resource available to the Fair Work Agency . ( 2 ) the review must be publish and lay before Parliament within six month of this section come into force . " this new clause ask the Secretary of State to review the resource available to the Fair Work Agency to ensure that enforcement of provision in the Act be effective . new clause 88 — rule as to political fund — ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) of section 84 ( contribution to political fund from member of the union ) , after subsection ( 1 ) , insert — " ( 1A ) an opt - in notice under subsection ( 1 ) must include the member of the trade union ' s consent to annual renewal of the contribution to the political fund ( a " renewal opt - in " ) . ( 1b ) the renewal opt - in must be send by the member of the trade union ─ ( a ) within six month of the initial opt - in and every six month thereafter , or ( b ) each time payment be due , at least 28 day before payment be take , whichever be long . ( 1C ) if the member of the trade union do not provide a renewal opt - in , the trade union must provide a date by which the member must notify the trade union of their consent to continue contribution towards the political fund , which must be no early than 28 day before the next payment to the political fund be due . ( 1d ) if the member have not — ( a ) opt into an arrangement under subsection ( 1A ) or ( 1b ) , or ( b ) give notification of their consent to continue contribution by the date specify under subsection ( 1C ) , their payment to the political fund must cease before the renewal date . " " this new clause will ensure that trade union member be ask whether they wish their contribution to the political fund to renew automatically and would require that , if the member do not wish to renew their contribution , the union must provide a date by which the member have to confirm they wish to continue to contribute . new clause 89 — Certification Officer : growth duty — " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 254 ( the Certification Officer ) , after subsection ( 2 ) , insert — " ( 2A ) in discharge the function of the Certification Office , the Certification Officer must , so far as reasonably possible , act in such a way as to advance the follow objective — ( a ) the international competitiveness of the economy of the United Kingdom ; and ( b ) economic growth of the United Kingdom in the medium to long term . " " this new clause would require the Certification Officer to advance the objective of the international competitiveness of the economy and its growth in the medium to long term . new clause 90 — Regulations under Part 4 — " when make regulation under Part 4 of this Act , the Secretary of State must have regard to the follow objective — ( a ) the international competitiveness of the economy of the United Kingdom ; and ( b ) the economic growth of the United Kingdom in the medium to long term . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State , when make regulation under Part 4 of the Bill , to have regard to the objective of the international competitiveness of the economy and its growth in the medium to long term . new clause 98 — pressure to impose union recognition requirement — " in the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 , omit section 225 ( pressure to impose union recognition requirement ) . " this new clause would remove section 225 from the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 on pressure to impose union recognition requirement . new clause 99 — electronic balloting — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a statutory instrument contain an order under section 54 of the Employment Relations Act 2004 . ( 2 ) that order must specify that — ( a ) permissible mean may , in the case of any description of ballot or election , include ( or consist of ) electronic voting ; and ( b ) any ballot or election include ( or consist of ) electronic voting must be conduct pursuant to section 230 ( conduct of ballot ) of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must not make an order under this section until a consultation with the Trades Union Congress and the Certification Officer have be conduct . ( 4 ) an order under this section may not be make unless a draft have be lay before and approve by resolution of each House of Parliament . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to make an order for electronic voting in a ballot or election pursuant to section 54 of the Employment Relations Act 2004 within six month of the passing of this Act , and follow consultation with the TUC . new clause 100 — notice to employer of industrial action : amendment — " in section 234A of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 , omit subsection ( 3 ) to ( 9 ) and insert — - " ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section a relevant notice be one in writing which — ( a ) identifie — ( i ) the day or the first of the day on which , at the time of the service of the relevant notice , the union propose to call industrial action ; and ( ii ) the category of employee the union intend to call on to take industrial action ; and ( b ) must be provide to the employer as early as practicable after the ballot result be know and the decision to take industrial action in furtherance of it have be take . ( 4 ) if the industrial action relate to an event which have already take place , no relevant notice shall be require . " " this new clause replace the provision in section 234A of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 to define a relevant notice for industrial action , when one must be provide and when one be not require . new clause 103 — public sector contracting : trade union recognition — " ( 1 ) the Procurement Act 2023 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in part ( 2 ) ( principle and objective ) , after section 14a insert — " 14b obligation of contractor to recognise trade union ( 1 ) the Secretary of State have a duty to ensure that any contract enter into after the come into force of this Act by a — ( a ) government department ; ( b ) executive agency of government ; ( c ) non departmental public body ; or ( d ) non Ministerial department , be compliant with the requirement set out in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) a contract under subsection ( 1 ) must require the contractor to such a contracting authority to — ( a ) recognise an independent trade union for the purpose of collective bargaining , and ( b ) take step to ensure that any sub - contractor to the contractor which carry out any obligation under the public contract recognise an independent trade union for the purpose of collective bargaining . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , " recognise " , " independent trade union " and " collective bargaining " have the same meaning as in the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . ( 4 ) an independent trade union may make a complaint against a contracting authority , which be a party to a public contract , that it or a contractor or sub - contractor which carry out any obligation under the public contract be in breach of the term in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 5 ) the complaint may be make to the Central Arbitration Committee . ( 6 ) if the Central Arbitration Committee find the complaint to be well found , it shall grant a declaration to that effect . ( 7 ) where the Central Arbitration Committee make a declaration in accordance with subsection ( 6 ) , it shall order that the respondent contracting authority shall take whatever step appear to the Central Arbitration Committee as necessary to ensure that the contracting authority and every contractor or sub - contractor which carry out any obligation under the public contract comply with the imply term in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 8 ) the step that may be take under subsection ( 7 ) include termination of the contract , which shall not be regard as a breach of contract by the contracting authority concern if a principal reason for the termination be compliance with an order of the Central Arbitration Committee under subsection ( 7 ) . ( 9 ) an appeal lie on a point of law to the Employment Appeal Tribunal by either party to proceeding bring under subsection ( 5 ) . " " this new clause be design to ensure that all public contractor comply with the duty to recognise a trade union for the purpose of collective bargaining and that such contractor take step to ensure that any sub - contractor do the same . the term " contracting authority " and " public contract " be define in section 2 and 3 of the Procurement Act . new clause 106 — collective bargaining — " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 209 , after " industrial relation " insert — " and in particular to encourage the extension of collective bargaining and the development and , where necessary , reform of collective bargaining machinery . " " this would add duty around collective bargaining to the general duty of ACAS . new clause 107 — whether agreement intend to be a legally enforceable contract — " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for section 179 , substitute — " 179 whether agreement intend to be a legally enforceable contract ( 1 ) a collective agreement shall be conclusively presume to have be intend by the party to be a legally enforceable contract unless the agreement — ( a ) be in writing , and ( b ) contain a provision which ( however express ) state that the party do not intend that the agreement shall be a legally enforceable contract . ( 2 ) a collective agreement which satisfy those condition shall be conclusively presume not to have be intend by the party to be a legally enforceable contract . ( 3 ) if a collective agreement be in writing and contain a provision which ( however express ) state that the party intend that one or more part of the agreement specify in that provision , but not the whole of the agreement , shall not be a legally enforceable contract , then — ( a ) the specified part or part shall be conclusively presume not to have be intend by the party to be a legally enforceable contract , and ( b ) the remainder of the agreement shall be conclusively presume to have be intend by the party to be such a contract . ( 4 ) a part of a collective agreement which by virtue of subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) be not a legally enforceable contract may be refer to for the purpose of interpret a part of the agreement which be such a contract . " " this new clause replace section 179 on whether agreement intend to be a legally enforceable contract in the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 New clause 108 — industrial action : worker ' right — " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 219 , insert — " 219A Right to strike every worker shall have the right to take industrial action , whether or not in breach of any contract , subject to the provision of this Part . " ( 3 ) omit section 223 ( action take because of dismissal for take unofficial action ) . " this new clause would establish a clear right to strike and remove provision from the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 that make strike action unlawful on the ground that it turn out ( retrospectively ) that the action the worker take be unofficial . new clause 109 — industrial action and ballot — " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) omit — ( a ) section 224 ( secondary action ) ( b ) 225 ( pressure to impose union recognition requirement ) ( c ) 226a ( notice of ballot and sample voting paper for employer ) ( d ) 228 ( separate workplace ballot ) , and ( e ) 228A ( separate workplace : single and aggregate ballot ) . ( 3 ) in section 234 ( period after which ballot cease to be effective ) , omit subsection ( 1 ) to ( 5 ) and substitute : " ( 1 ) industrial action that be regard as have the support of a ballot shall cease to be so regard when ─ ( a ) the dispute which give rise to it cease , or ( b ) the union have take no step to pursue the dispute for a period of six month . " ( 4 ) in subsection ( 1 ) of section 244 , ( meaning of " trade dispute " in Part V ) — ( a ) omit " a dispute between worker and their employer " and substitute " a dispute between worker and one or more employer " . ( b ) omit " which relate wholly or mainly to " and substitute " connect with " . ( 5 ) in subsection ( 5 ) of section 244 , omit " a worker employ by that employer " and substitute " a worker employ by an employer " . " this new clause would remove provision that ban all form of secondary action ; make change to the definition of " trade dispute " ; enable industrial action to be take to achieve recognition for collective bargaining ; remove obligation on a TU to provide a ballot paper to the employer ; give tu more freedom to choose which constituency they will ballot ; and remove an obligation on the union in a long run dispute to re - run the ballot every six month . new clause 110 — review into the impact on small business — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passage of this Act , lie before Parliament a review on the impact of Part 4 ( Trade Unions and Industrial Action , etc ) of this Act on small and medium - sized enterprise . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must have regard to — ( a ) administrative cost ; ( b ) legal cost ; and ( c ) tax change affect small and medium - sized enterprise take effect from the 2025 - 26 financial year . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , small and medium - sized enterprise be business employ 250 or few employee . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish a review on the impact of Part 4 of this Bill , on Trade Unions and Industrial Action , on sme within 3 month of the passage of this Act . new clause 111 — legal aid in employment tribunal — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passage of this Act , lie before Parliament a report on the option for expand the right to legal aid in employment tribunal . ( 2 ) the report under subsection ( 1 ) must consider — ( a ) the impact employer ' compliance with measure contain within this Act ; and ( b ) the impact on employee ' personal finance . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to report on the impact of expand the right to legal aid in employment tribunal within 3 month of the passage of this Act . new clause 112 — Review of single enforcement body — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passage of this Act , lie before Parliament a review on the impact of a single enforcement body as provide for under Part 5 . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must assess the impact of the single enforcement body with the impact between 2019 and 2025 of the follow four enforcement body — ( a ) Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority ( GLAA ) ( b ) Employment Agencies Standards Inspectorate ( EAS ) ( c ) his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs ( HMRC ) ( d ) Health and Safety Executive ( HSE ) ( 3 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must have regard to — ( a ) business compliance cost ( b ) Employers ' compliance with employment law ( c ) the number of employee seek support in relation to employment dispute . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to review the impact of a single enforcement body compare with separate enforcement body within 3 month of the passage of this Act . amendment 270 , page 61 , line 14 leave out clause 50 . new clause 70 be intend to replace clause 50 . government amendment 162 to 164 . Amendment 282 , clause 50 , page 61 , line 31 , after " workplace " insert , or " ( b ) the right to use to any digital communication tool use by worker in the workplace . " this amendment aim to ensure that access for union to workplace include digital mean of communication with worker . government amendment 165 to 185 . amendment 271 , clause 51 , page 69 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) in paragraph 22 ( collective bargaining : recognition ) — ( a ) leave out sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) and insert — " the CAC have evidence , which it consider to be credible , that a majority of worker constitute the bargaining unit want the union ( or union ) to conduct collective bargaining on their behalf ' . " ( b ) leave out subparagraph ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) . ( 2b ) in paragraph 25 ( collective bargaining : recognition ) — ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( a ) leave out " 20 work day " and substitute " 10 working day " , and ( b ) leave out sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( b ) . ( c ) after sub - paragraph ( 4 ) ( a ) insert " ( aa ) by secure electronic voting , " ( d ) in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) ( c ) leave out " and b " and substitute " to ( c ) " ( e ) after sub - paragraph ( 4 ) ( c ) insert — " ( d ) only amongst those who be employ in the propose bargaining unit and be so employ at the time the application be make " . ( 2C ) in paragraph 26 after sub - paragraph ( 4 ) insert — " ( 3A ) in the event that the union ( or union ) consider that such access have be unreasonably refuse , it ( or they ) may apply to the CAC for a declaration and order that access be grant and in the event that such a declaration or order be make and the union ( or union ) consider that such a declaration or order have be breach it ( or they ) may apply to the High Court for relief . " ( 2D ) in paragraph 26 after sub - paragraph ( 4b ) insert — " ( 4ba ) the sixth duty be to refrain from any act or omission , direct or indirect , likely to encourage a union member or member to resign from union membership or likely to discourage a person from join a union or any particular union . ( 4bb ) it shall be unlawful to compel a worker or worker by threat of detriment or dismissal to attend any meeting in which the employer , its servant or agent express the view directly or indirectly that — ( a ) membership of a union or any union ; or ( b ) recognition for the purpose of collective bargaining of a union or any union by the employer , be undesirable . " ( 2e ) in paragraph 27b ( 2 ) leave out " must be make on or before the first work day after " and substitute " must be make within 20 working day after " . ( 2f ) in paragraph 29 ( collective bargaining : recognition ) leave out sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( b ) . ( 2 g ) in paragraph 35 ( 1 ) leave out " a collective agreement under which a union ( or union ) be recognise as entitle to conduct collective bargaining " and substitute " a collective agreement under which an independent union ( or independent union ) be recognise as entitle to conduct collective bargaining " . ( 2H ) in paragraph 35 ( 1 ) after " in the rule " insert " ' in relation to all pay , hour and holiday " . ( 2i ) in paragraph 39 ( 2 ) ( a ) leave out " year " and substitute " month " . ( 2J ) in paragraph 40 ( 2 ) ( a ) leave out " year " and substitute " month " . ( 2 k ) in paragraph 41 ( 2 ) ( a ) leave out " year " and substitute " month " . this amendment make change to the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 regard union recognition and balloting . amendment 291 , page 71 , line 1 , leave out clause 52 . amendment 292 , clause 52 , page 71 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) in subsection ( 1 ) of section 82 ( rule as to political fund ) , after paragraph ( d ) insert — " ( e ) that trade union member who have not opt out of the political fund must signal , in writing , their agreement to continue contribute to the fund at the end of a period of 12 month after last opt into the fund , and ( f ) that trade union member must be give an annual notice about their right to opt out of the political fund . ( 1b ) a notice under subsection ( 1 ) ( f ) must include a form that enable the member to opt out of the fund . " " this amendment would require trade union to notify their member every year of their right to opt out of the political fund , and to obtain an annual opt - in to the political fund from their member . government amendment 186 to 191 . amendment 293 , page 73 , line 6 , leave out clause 54 . amendment 294 , page 74 , line 14 , leave out clause 55 . amendment 296 , clause 55 , page 75 , line 3 , after " employee " , insert — " , and ( c ) in relation to a public sector employer , the performance condition be meet . ( 3A ) the performance condition be meet if the Secretary of State be satisfied that the public sector employer be meet any performance standard set out in a relevant enactment . " this amendment prevent facility time for equality representative from be provide unless the relevant public sector organisation be meet its statutory target for performance . amendment 295 , page 78 , line 5 , leave out clause 56 . amendment 299 , page 78 , line 30 , leave out clause 58 . government amendment 192 to 199 . amendment 315 , page 79 , line 28 , leave out clause 60 . this amendment would leave out Clause 60 on electronic balloting for industrial action . NC99 be intend to replace clause 60 . government amendment 200 to 201 . amendment 297 , clause 61 , page 80 , line 6 , leave out " seventh " and insert " fourteenth " . this amendment would increase , from seven to 14 day , the notice period that trade union be require to adhere to when notify employer that they plan to take industrial action . government amendment 202 . amendment 348 , page 80 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be also amend as follow . ( 4 ) in section 231 ( information as to result of ballot ) , omit from " shall " to after " tell " and insert — " display , reasonably prominently on its website , on a webpage reasonably easy to find and which be freely accessible to the general public — " ( 5 ) omit section 231A . " this amendment would change the requirement for notification about the result of a union ballot . amendment 346 , clause 62 , page 80 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) in section 220 ( peaceful picketing ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , after " attend " , insert " a place of work " ; ( b ) omit subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) and ( 1 ) ( b ) ; and ( c ) omit subsection ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) . " this amendment , along with amendment 348 , would remove the restriction confine picket to a worker ' s place of work . amendment 300 , clause 63 , page 83 , line 9 , at end insert — " 236E Actions short of a strike : exemption ( 1 ) the right of a worker not to be subject to detriment under section 236A do not apply in case where the worker be involve in one or more of the follow activity — ( a ) intimidation at picket line ; ( b ) protest organise by trade union in furtherance of a dispute — ( i ) at the premise of a company ; ( ii ) at the private residence of senior manager ; or ( iii ) at the premise of other organisation that be connect with the dispute ; ( c ) harassment or bullying of non - striking worker , or those who be cover for strike worker ; ( d ) victimisation or harassment of senior manager ; or ( e ) action aim at damage property or disrupt business contingency planning . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that the circumstance under subsection ( 1 ) , in which the right of a worker not to be subject to detriment do not apply , be set out in a code of practice . " this amendment would disapply the right not to suffer detriment as a result of industrial action in certain circumstance . government amendment 203 to 226 and 236 to 239 . government new schedule 2 — Trade union recognition . government amendment 247 , 249 , 251 to 261 . new clause 77 — Employment Law : Scotland Act — " ( 1 ) the Scotland Act 1998 be amend as follow — ( 2 ) in Schedule 5 of the Scotland Act 1998 , omit section H1 ( Employment and industrial relation ) . " this new clause would remove matter relate to employment from the list of the reserved matter that remain the responsibility of the UK Parliament alone and would enable the Scottish Parliament to legislate on those matter . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and declare my membership and financial interest in trade union , as I have do throughout the passage of the Bill . I thank member from both side of the House for their contribution to yesterday ' s debate . I look forward to another good debate today as we work together to ensure that the Bill work in practice for worker and business of all size across the whole country . similarly to yesterday , I will use my opening remark to explain to the House the amendment put forward by the Government in part 4 and 5 of the Bill . the Government be move a number of amendment that represent a significant step forward in modernise our industrial framework . amendment to clause 50 will strengthen the provision of trade union access right . they will ensure that the framework function effectively and deliver on our commitment to modernise working practice . they will streamline access provision by allow a single Central Arbitration Committee member to make a fast - track decision on whether access should take place . in make a decision about whether it be a single person or a panel that will consider the application , the CAC will be require to have regard to the complexity of the case , as well as whether the propose term of the agreement be model term . various criterion will be prescribe in secondary legislation follow consultation . the amendment will also clarify that support a worker be a legitimate purpose for access , and they will provide a power to bring forward secondary legislation to make further provision as to how the CAC be to determine the level of penalty fine for non - compliance with access agreement . they will expand access right , enable access agreement to cover communicating with worker in way that do not involve enter premise — for example , connect digitally use technology — therefore modernise our antiquated industrial relation framework . new clause 39 , new schedule 2 and associate amendment insert new provision into the Bill , replace clause 51 , and will address unfair practice and access arrangement in the recognition and derecognition process . the amendment will extend the application of unfair practice protection to the point at which the CAC accept an application for recognition or derecognition , and will ensure that employer can not increase the size of the bargaining unit for the purpose of the recognition application after the application be make . that will end the deliberate gaming of the system that we have see in recent year . the amendment will also delete the second test for determine an unfair practice complaint , which currently require the CAC to consider how an alleged unfair practice may have affect worker ’ vote in the recognition , or derecognition , ballot . they will extend the time limit in which unfair practice can be report after the ballot close to five work day . they will ensure that an employer can not recognise a non - independent trade union after receive a request for voluntary recognition from an independent trade union as a means of thwart the independent trade union ' s subsequent application to the CAC for statutory recognition . we will bring forward and formalise the process for agree access arrangement between the employer and the union during the recognition and derecognition process . these amendment will streamline the recognition process , reduce opportunity for unfair practice to occur , and ensure that union that seek recognition have a fair and transparent statutory route to enable they to do so . today ' s amendment on industrial action rule will reduce the costly , complex and bureaucratic requirement on union in relation to industrial action and ballot notice , while ensure that employer have the necessary notice and information to prepare for industrial action . new clause 42 will simplify notice to employer of industrial action ballot and industrial action , reduce the chance of spurious challenge and make the information require more proportionate . new clause 43 will extend industrial action mandate from six to 12 month , reduce the need for repeat ballot . amendment to clause 61 will mean that the notice period for industrial action will be set at 10 day , give business time to prepare and safeguard worker ’ right . amendment to clause 58 will mean that the 50 % ballot turnout threshold repeal will be subject to commencement on a date to be set in secondary legislation . turn to political fund ballot , new clause 40 and associated amendment remove the requirement for union to hold a ballot every 10 year on maintain a political fund . instead , union will provide reminder about member ' right to opt out every 10 year , ensure transparency without impose costly and time - consume ballot . the Bill will bring together the various agency and enforcement body that enforce employment right in the new Fair Work Agency , so that where employer be not do what be right , a simplified and strengthen enforcement system will protect worker and ensure justice in the workplace . the Fair Work Agency need the right tool to do the job . a series of amendment form a package that will give the Fair Work Agency the tool that it need to hold all employer to account more effectively . that be fair for worker and business . the Government be move amendment to introduce new power that be key to the Fair Work Agency ' s core enforcement role . new clause 44 to 56 create a civil penalty regime . under the regime , enforcement officer will be able to issue notice of underpayment , and impose a penalty on employer who have underpaid individual , in breach of statutory pay right that be within the remit of the Fair Work Agency . as a result , the agency may be able to help worker get the money they be owe more quickly than if they have to go through an employment tribunal . where proceeding before the tribunal be necessary , we want the Fair Work Agency to be able to support individual and ensure that the tribunal ' s time be use as effectively as possible . new clause 57 do that by enable the agency to bring proceeding before the employment tribunal if individual be unwilling or unable to . under clause 58 , the agency can also offer advice and assistance to individual bring employment - relate case before the court or tribunal . the Government be also move amendment to upgrade the power that the Fair Work Agency will need to tackle labour abuse effectively . the Bill Committee hear from stakeholder , include Eleanor Lyons , the UK Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner , about bad practice in the social care sector . the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority be prevent from investigate many case because they do not meet the modern slavery threshold . the Fraud Act 2006 cover situation that amount to labour abuse but fall short of be modern slavery . today we be bring forward two amendment that will deliver the Government ' s commitment to give the Fair Work Agency the strong power that it need to tackle labour exploitation . we will enable Fair Work Agency enforcement officer to use their power to investigate such case , help the agency to protect the most vulnerable in the workforce . we will also give enforcement officer the ability to issue special warning follow arrest . in practice , that mean tell suspect that if they refuse to answer question about certain item or their whereabouts , that could be use against they in court . only 21 employer have be prosecute for national minimum wage violation since 2007 . the measure that the Minister be bring forward will improve enforcement . he touch on the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , but he do not address the point make in the debate yesterday . will he use this opportunity to say more about the Government ' s intention to update the Modern Slavery Act ? I be grateful for the Chair of the Select Committee ' s intervention . we accept that there be gap between the modern slavery network enforcement process and current employment right enforcement . we be work with the Home Office and the GLAA to improve that . these be thing we can continue to work on as we develop the scope and remit of the Fair Work Agency . as well as reform and strengthen the power , the Government be move amendment to expand the remit of the Fair Work Agency to ensure effective enforcement of statutory sick pay and holiday pay . today ' s amendment will bring Northern Ireland SSP legislation into the scope of the Fair Work Agency , and will introduce a requirement for the Secretary of State to obtain the consent of the Northern Ireland Executive before bring any far devolve legislation in scope . further amendment will bring within the agency ' s scope the duty in the working time regulation for employer to retain record relate to holiday pay and annual leave for six year . it be the Government ' s intention for the Fair Work Agency to take on enforcement of new protection relate to zero - hour contract . that be subject to a consultation on the detail , and to the outcome of the spending review . new clause 60 give the Fair Work Agency the power to recover the cost of take enforcement action from business that be find to be non - compliant with the law . that be in recognition of the " polluter pay " principle . it be similar to how other regulator operate , such as the Health and Safety Executive . we will consider carefully and discuss the matter with business as appropriate before exercise that power , but it be an important principle that where there be wrong , the person in the wrong make some contribution towards the cost to the taxpayer of enforce the law . to sum up — I know many people be eager to speak in the debate — the Bill will ensure that workplace right be fit for a modern economy , empower work people and contribute to economic growth . I urge hon . member to support the Bill and the amendment that we be move today , which show that we be pro - business , pro - worker , pro - family and pro - growth . I call the shadow Minister . ahead of get into the detail of the many amendment before we , which the Minister rattle through in just 10 minute , let I say that overnight we learn that the Government be move the responsibility of one quango to another . they be move the responsibility of the Payment Systems Regulator to the Financial Conduct Authority , put one quango into another . conveniently , they already share a building . the Prime Minister have hail that as " the late step " in the Government ' s attempt to " kick - start economic growth " , though the amendment we be discuss do the very opposite . the Chancellor say : " the regulatory system have become burdensome to the point of choke off innovation , investment and growth " , but that be precisely what the Bill do . I do not know how the Government can say that with a straight face when , as we stand here today , block regulatory burden cost every business in the land — small , medium or large — £ 5 billion . in the Chamber yesterday , it be quite clear that the Minister and his team do not fully understand the definition of a small business . I be sure that my hon . friend the shadow Minister do understand it . do he agree that that be fundamental to understand why the balance of this legislation be wrong ? my right hon . friend make a superb point , as she always do . every single small business that I have talk to in my constituency be very concerned about the measure in this — on that point , will the shadow Minister give way ? I will if , 24 hour on , he can name a small business that support the Bill . I be ask the shadow Minister to give way , but the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) could have intervene on I during my speech . one of the reason why there be so much confusion about the definition of a small business be that the shadow Minister move an amendment in Committee that say that a small business " mean an organisation or person employ 500 or few employee " . – – [ Official Report , Employment Rights Public Bill Committee , 3 December 2024 ; c . 177 . ] so if there be any confusion , it be on the Conservative Benches . twenty - four hour later , the Minister still can not name a small business that support the Bill . that show how out of their depth this trade union Government be when it come to support business in this land . in the word of the Chancellor , this Bill be " choke off innovation , investment and growth . " to pretend otherwise would be take the public for fool . on new clause 89 and 90 , almost everything this Government have do be contradictory to the objective of growth , if that remain their objective this week . whether it be the national insurance job tax , the change to business rate or this Bill , everything they do seemingly go against grow the economy . it be little surprise that , under Labour , the economy be flatline . the Prime Minister say early this year that everything the Government do will be subject to a " growth test " . however , the detail of that test have be sparse , at good — so sparse , in fact , that people may well think it do not exist . could the shadow Minister describe Liz Truss ' s growth test ? well , cut red tape for a start . we see from Lib Dem Members that " the Orange Book " tradition of the Liberal Democrats be well and truly dead ; they now position themselves firmly to the left of the Labour party . there be no great evidence that the growth test do not exist than the Bill , because if such a test do exist , this Bill would fall at the first hurdle , but today I come with good news : I have two amendment that the Government can back this afternoon to help they to grow the economy . those amendment be , of course , new clause 89 and new clause 90 . new clause 89 would require the certification officer to advance the objective of the international competitiveness of the economy , and new clause 90 would require the Secretary of State , who be again not in his place , to have regard to international competitiveness when pass regulation under part 4 of the Bill concern the trade union . the Government have be ask regulator for idea to boost growth — it be a contradiction in term to ask the regulator to boost growth — but we be happy to help they with their quest . the Government should be able to support these amendment . if they can not , it show that they be not serious about economic growth and , more tellingly , that they do not intend to use the power in part 4 of the Bill to achieve growth or international economic competitiveness , because they do not intend to exercise they in a way that be compatible with those objective . new clause 88 on trade union political fund will , I be sure , get the Government a little bit hot under the collar . this be a " Labour party first , country second " Government . nowhere be that clear than in the change that the Government be make to the political fund through the Bill . let we be in no doubt that the change have one simple purpose : to bolster the coffer of the Labour party . clause 52 will mean that member of trade union will automatically contribute to their trade union ' s political fund without be ask about it first . member will have to opt out , rather than opt in , as they do at present . [ interruption . ] do someone want to try to defend that ? no ? okay . if trade union subscription be to be use for party political campaigning , it should be a conscious decision of the trade union member to endorse such campaigning . the shadow Minister may recall that in Committee , every single labour member of the Committee declare sponsorship by the trade union movement . do he agree with I that this clause be simply payback for the trade union movement , after its financial support for the Labour party ? my hon . friend serve assiduously on the Committee , raise many good point , include the one that he just make , which I absolutely agree with . the public will be ask serious question about this . rise — if the hon . Gentleman want to try to defend that , I will give he the opportunity . I be happy to declare my interest as a member of three trade union , but I get less from they than the shadow Minister get from a small business — I think his declaration be £ 12 , 500 . do he feel the need to declare that , give that he be now make a case against legislation that would impact that company ? I be make a point about the trade union movement , which I have never be a part of , and certainly never receive any money from . I be happy for the hon . gentleman to look at all my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . be it really a point of order ? we can find out , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I believe it be . can you advise whether Conservative Members who receive money from business affect by this legislation should make a declaration in the same way that we trade unionist do ? this be go to end up in a back and forth on thing that be not a matter for the Chair . declaration be the responsibility of individual member to make appropriately through the right process . for the avoidance of all doubt and in all transparency , I declare all my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests for all to look at . they be all there for anybody to see . this argument about opt in and opt out of trade union levy go back to at least the 1970 — probably beyond — when I remember argue about it as an undergraduate . if there be to be levy that people have to opt out of , a defensible case can be make for they provide that the process of opt out be easy and advertise to every member . do my hon . friend know whether the Government propose to institute mechanism to make it know to every member how easily they can opt out ? my right hon . friend make an incredibly important point . if we look at the detail of this Bill , it be very clear and obvious that the Government be try to make it as difficult as possible for people to opt out of the trade union political fund . that be the very point of they change this legislation . will the shadow Minister give way ? I will make a bit of progress , then I will come to the hon . Lady . an opt - in be the default under consumer protection law and information law . combine with the 10 - year reminder change , it be highly likely that many trade union member will not be aware that their subscription be be use in this way or that they be eligible to save money on their trade union fee by not be a member of the political fund . despite all the talk of support work people , it be clear that that concern simply do not apply when work people ' s money be be take to fund the Labour party and other political cause . we have table amendment 291 because we believe fundamentally that people should consent explicitly to what be , in effect , a subscription trap . amendment 291 would simply maintain the status quo ; it be the right thing to do . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be a member of Community and the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers . can the hon . Gentleman tell we how many time such a ballot have actually result in the closure of a political fund ? I think he will find that the answer be none . the hon . Lady be put up a smoke - and - mirror argument to try to cover the fact that the Government be change the status quo from an opt - in system to an opt - out system . to I , it be just straightforward common sense that people would expect to have to opt in rather than , in this particularly egregious case , be casually remind every 10 year that they could save a bit of money by opt out of a cause that they perhaps do not even agree with in the first place . in fact , the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the right hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , pledge to end auto - renewal subscription . when the Conservatives be in government , we pass the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 , which contain two significant proposal on subscription contract that be notable here . one of those be reminder notice . business need to provide notice to consumer to remind they that their subscription contract will renew and payment will be due unless the consumer cancel . the second proposal be to allow consumer to be able to exit a subscription contract in a straightforward , cost - effective and timely way . business need to ensure that the process for terminate be not unduly onerous and that consumer can signal their intent to end the contract through a single communication . the Labour party , which be then in opposition , support those aim — in fact , the Bill do not go far enough for Labour at the time . on Report , the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) table new clause 29 , which the Labour party vote to add to the Bill . the new clause have a two - pronged approach . it require trader to ask consumer whether they wish to opt into subscription renew automatically either " after a period of six month and every six month thereafter , or … if the period between the consumer be charge for the first and second time be long than six month , each time payment be due . " the second aim of the new clause , which the Labour party use to support , would have require that if the consumer do not opt into the arrangement describe , the trader have to " provide a date by which the consumer must notify the trader of the consumer ' s intention to renew the contract , which must be no early than 28 day before the renewal date . " if the consumer do not provide a notification , the subscription contract could not renew . where be I go with this ? [ interruption . ] government Members be chuntere too early , because there have be a considerable shift in the Labour party ' s policy position on subscription trap . it seem to believe that consumer should be give every possible opportunity to cancel subscription contract with business , but that it should be as hard as possible to cancel a subscription to the trade union political fund . under amendment 292 and new clause 88 , trade union member would have the same right , push for by Labour , as other individual with a subscription . new schedule 2 could be use to give sweeping power to labour ' s trade union paymaster , as the Secretary of State could reduce the threshold for trade union recognition to as little as 2 % of the workforce . trade union could easily be impose on workplace across the country , with small employer be particularly vulnerable . in a workplace of 200 worker , few than five of they would be require for workplace recognition . pair with the other measure in this Bill , that will strike fear into business owner across Britain , who could now be force to deal with all - powerful trade union as part of labour ' s return to the 1970 . the way in which Labour have go about this be just another example of the shoddy nature of this Bill and of Labour ' s approach to workplace regulation . the Attorney General have say that " excessive reliance on delegate power , Henry VIII clause , or skeleton legislation , upset the proper balance between Parliament and the executive . this not only strike at the rule of law value I have already outline , " — I be quote he — " but also at the cardinal principle of accessibility and legal certainty . " on facility time , amendment 293 and 295 would remove clause 54 , " facility provide to trade union official and learn representative " , and clause 55 , " facility for equality representative " . they would remove the requirement to provide reasonable time off for facility time , the creation of facility time for equality representative and clause that will reduce transparency requirement over facility time , respectively . together with amendment 296 , they would prevent facility time for equality representative from be provide unless the relevant public sector organisation be meet its statutory target for performance . trade union facility time already cost the Government nearly £ 100 million a year . under the last Labour Government , the civil service spend 0 . 26 % of its annual pay bill on facility time , compare with 0 . 04 % in the private sector . under the last Conservative Government , in 2022 - 23 , the average for the civil service be 0 . 05 % . labour council be still the bad culprit . the transparency datum collect by the Government in ' 22 - 23 show that Transport for London under the Mayor of London , Sadiq Khan , have 881 full - time equivalent union official on the book , cost £ 8 million a year . bankrupt , labour - run Birmingham city council have 30 full - time equivalent union official on its central book , cost £ 1 . 2 million — no wonder that it go bankrupt . furthermore , the council have 12 full - time equivalent in its maintain school , cost £ 583 , 000 . clause 54 and 55 will increase that cost by give more time off to public sector union official at the taxpayer ' s expense . that be not right when the Chancellor be ask Ministers to make cut to their department across the board . public service will be bad and the taxpayer will be expect to contribute more . furthermore , the Bill extend the right to facility time to equality representative , who will now be allow pay time off work to carry out activity for the purpose of " promote the value of equality in the workplace … arrange learn or training on matter relate to equality in the workplace … provide information , advice or support to qualify member of the trade union in relation to matter relate to equality in the workplace … consult with the employer on matter relate to equality in the workplace " and " obtain and analyse information relate to equality in the workplace " . those be all noble goal , but that should not be do at the taxpayer ' s expense . do the shadow Minister agree that the only job that will be create by these Bills be for people employ by trade union ? before Mr Smith respond to that intervention , I must add that we have just shy of 40 people hope to contribute to this debate , and I want to get they all in . as ever , Madam Deputy Speaker , I take your advice and will speed up . [ interruption . ] the Minister urge I to carry on , but of course I would not ignore your advice — never say never again . I make no comment on the value that those activity will add to public sector employer and their productivity . what I will say be that we have already see this Government be happy to hand over large pay increase to trade union with no guarantee of anything in return . that be why we have table amendment 293 , 295 and 296 , in an attempt to ensure that the taxpayer get something out of this late concession to the trade union . on amendment 297 , trade union can create significant disruption in the economy , whether by stop work from take place or prevent people from get to work , school , hospital appointment or many other activity . we must strike a fair balance between the ability of trade union to strike and the public whom we all serve . our amendment 297 will mean that vital public service such as the NHS can well plan and prepare for strike . it simply seek to keep the status quo of two week ' notice . without adequate warning , constituent of member from across the House be more likely to miss hospital appointment , not be able to travel to see love one or get to work , or suffer great disruption when school close due to strike . that be part of the reason why , in the consultation on threshold , 58 % of those who respond support retain the 14 - day period as it currently be , with 7 % prefer a long period . two third of respondent therefore want the period to stay the same or be long . Labour promise that it would work with business on this Bill , but its response to that consultation be just another example of the Government have their finger in their ear and simply not listen . the reduction to 10 day be against the wish of business and will do harm to all our constituent . that be why we have table amendment 297 to retain the notice period of 14 day . on amendment 299 , strike should only take place when there be a clear mandate for they , but clause 58 will mean that strike can happen with low threshold by remove the 50 % turnout requirement and the 40 % support requirement . combine with Government amendment to extend the mandate for strike from six month to 12 month , this Bill allow union to unleash wave of low - support , roll strike . those cost will come on top of the national insurance job tax and change to business rate — mistake that the Government be already make — make it more difficult to run a business . that be why we have table amendment 299 , which will remove clause 58 . there be much in this Bill to speak to , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I will not test your patience or the patience of the House far by go into those thing . I look forward to a thorough debate that will far point out — not least through conservative Members ' contribution — why the amendment to this Bill that the Government have table this afternoon will harm our economy , destroy job , and just give more power to the trade union . rise — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . be it pertinent to the actual debate ? yes , Madam Deputy Speaker . as we all know , member be require to draw attention to any potential conflict of interest prior to speak , in order to avoid any impression of , among other thing , pay advocacy . give that clause 52 will lead directly to increase payment of money from union to Labour Members of Parliament , I ask for guidance on the proper declaration of interest . Most Labour Members due to speak this afternoon have receive thousand of pound from the union — tot up , I make it £ 283 , 974 . 86 . in addition to a general reference to their entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , in this instance , where there be a direct link , should they not also set out the actual amount of money they have receive ? obviously , further clarity on this issue be require , as it be raise early . it be the responsibility of individual member to ensure that they declare their interest properly . the procedure for raise a complaint of this sort be by write to the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards . the guide to the rule set out the rule relate to the declaration of interest in debate . this be not otherwise a matter for the Chair . I hope that bring some further clarity to the issue . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will start with my declaration of interest , as a former member of the Confederation of British Industry and a current member of the trade union Unison . I will try to introduce a few point of consensus to the debate . I be old enough to remember when Conservative member such as the former Member for Harlow be write pamphlet for think - tank such as Demos with title like " stop the union - bash ; why conservative should embrace the trade union movement " . of course , that be an echo of something that Harold Macmillan famously use to say in the 1950 : " we use to think that we could not have a modern industrial society without trade union . I still think that . " I think we would all benefit from a little acknowledgment that industrial relation in this country have not be in a good place . in 2023 more day be lose to strike than at any point in the past 30 year , and the Office for National Statistics calculate at the back end of 2022 that 2 . 5 million day have be lose to strike action . that be not a record that any one of we in this House should be proud of . it be incumbent on all of we to modernise industrial relation in this country , so that we be not divide in the workplace in this way . as such , I welcome the measure in this Bill . I hope that the Minister will seize the moment — not only the fact that we have the Bill , but the advent of an industrial strategy that will introduce governance arrangement that get business and union around the table to talk about economic growth in our country . that be a big opportunity ; it be a big moment in which we can bring our country together around a modern industrial strategy . I hope that once the Minister have get this Bill do and have have a little bit of a rest — maybe go on holiday for a bit — he will think about how the Government will then publish a modern industrial strategy for the future , back by the restoration of some of the datum that we use to have in this country , such as the workplace employee survey . we have that until about 2012 , when it be stop . we need to be more thoughtful about harmony in the workplace , because that be in the interest of the constituent we serve . the right hon . Member use the term " modernise industrial relation " , which sound a little like a euphemism . take he at his word , however , be he not therefore surprised that the pay rise that have be give to doctor , train driver and a number of other union since this government come in have not be accompany by any requirement for increase productivity ? if we be to have modernise industrial relation , surely the increase pay that union want should be combine with the productivity gain that this country need . the hon . member will no doubt have hear the remark make by the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster at the weekend . I suspect that the hon . member , like every member of this House , will see some pretty radical step take in the comprehensive spending review to improve the efficiency of the civil service . of course , the civil service grow very significantly in the year after covid , and now it have to be reinvent for new time . I be confident that those productivity gain will come . my second point be to draw the House ' s attention to some of the evidence take by our Select Committee . that evidence be contain in our report , which I commend to all hon . member . what strike I about the evidence we hear from the most productive firm in the country , such as Jaguar Land Rover , Rolls - Royce and BAE Systems , be that those be world - beat company — some of the most productive company in our country — and what characterise the workplace arrangement of all of those company be that they have very long - stand , robust and deep partnership with good trade union . those trade union help make decision , help de - conflict thing and help business thrive and succeed . that be why strong collective right be important . we also take evidence from company where , I be afraid to say , there be not that harmony , such as Amazon . it have have to call ambulance to its warehouse 1 , 400 time in just five year . we on the Committee receive whistleblow evidence from worker who be literally have to urinate into bottle because they do not dare take time out from their task to go to the bathroom and back . we hear all kind of whistleblow complaint about injury be sustain , and pay be rise much more slowly than sale . when we have executive from that company in front of we , they could not — or would not — tell the Committee why strike action have be take by worker in their firm . if a company executive can not explain to a Select Committee of this House why so many of their worker be on strike , that be not a story of harmony or a recipe for success . that be why the measure that the Minister have bring forward in this Bill to improve the opportunity for trade union to organise — in a way that be recommend by the former Member for Harlow , actually — be a good thing . the Minister have go some way in recognise recommendation make by our Committee , such as improve the window in which complaint can be hear beyond 24 hour , bring in template access agreement and strengthen the role of the Central Arbitration Committee in dispute resolution . there be just one further step that I suggest , which be the subject of amendment 282 . we suggest that access right for trade union should include digital access right , because in the modern workplace , of which Amazon be a case in point , there simply be not an opportunity for worker to get information about the opportunity to join a trade union and make a fair choice one way or the other in the way that there could be in the modern economy . my final point be about enforcement . the first factory Act pass by this House be the Health and Morals of Apprentices Act 1802 . it be celebrate in parliamentary history as an Act that fail because there be no enforcement attach to it . enforcement of this Bill be essential if it be to succeed , but labour market enforcement today be much too weak . just 21 employer have be prosecute for minimum wage enforcement since 2007 , despite the fact that we all know that abuse of this sort be take place in our constituency . spend on labour market enforcement have be flat since 2014 , and we be well off the International Labour Organisation target of one labour market inspector for every 10 , 000 worker . new clause 82 in my name would require the Secretary of State to set out a road map for reach that ILO target , for ensure there be great use of penalty where appropriate , and for much strong partnership between the Home Office , the police and the Fair Work Agency . we can not have a situation in this country where the good of british firm be be undercut by the bad labour market practice . in conclusion , I welcome this Bill . some of the amendment that have be table would improve it , but ultimately we have to remember that if we want to create a genuinely pro - business , pro - worker economy , the measure in this Bill be long overdue . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I rise to speak to part 4 and 5 of the Bill , and specifically to new clause 19 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , and new clause 110 , 111 and 112 , which stand in my name . I wish to put on record my thank to my two Liberal Democrat colleague , my hon . friend the Members for Torbay and for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) , for their work in the Public Bill Committee , alongside many other member of the House . overall , throughout its passage , we Liberal Democrats have indicate our support for many aspect of the Employment Rights Bill , such as those we debate yesterday , include boost statutory sick pay , strengthen parental pay and leave , and give people on zero - hour and low - hour contract more certainty . however , a lot of crucial detail have be leave to secondary legislation , to lot of new Government amendment and to continue consultation , which make it impossible to explicitly endorse the Bill as a whole at this stage . even with 264 amendment in Committee and 457 Government amendment on Report , major issue be still yet to be determine , especially in part 4 . even after all those amendment , the Government say that they intend to " consult far on modernise the trade union landscape follow Royal Assent " of this Bill , include on admissibility requirement , a code of practice and secondary legislation . it be therefore clear that part 4 , which we be debate today , be still far from finalised . we Liberal Democrats believe that employee participation in the workplace be vital , but we also believe that it should go hand in hand with wide employee ownership . that be so important for diffuse economic power , promote enterprise , increase job satisfaction , improve service to customer and get long - term economic stability and growth . the Government ' s proposal on trade union be aim at strengthen employee right in what can often be a combative and confrontational working environment , and we Liberal Democrats see this Bill as a miss opportunity to improve employee engagement and ownership to provide collaborative working environment and long - term growth , whether by reform company purpose rule or put a duty on employer to encourage employee ownership in large list company . however , give what we have before we , we have table a few amendment . first , new clause 19 be about the right to be accompany , and it do what it say on the tin . it would expand the right for staff to be accompany by a certify companion at disciplinary and grievance hearing . that be a long - stand Liberal Democrat policy , and I hope it be not too controversial , as it simply rectify an anomaly . the current law allow only trade union representative or colleague to accompany an employee , and that leave many without proper support . some sector , such as the medical profession , already allow accompaniment by non - union companion , yet that be not reflect in law . our target amendment would fix that anomaly , and I urge the Government to accept it . new clause 110 simply request that the Government conduct a review on the impact on small business . throughout the Bill ' s passage , we have express concern about the cumulative impact of all the Government ' s work in this area and the impact it will have on small business in particular . just the other day , the Federation of Small Businesses tell I that it spend thousand and thousand of hour give advice to small business on employment matter , and these new obligation will create a huge amount of extra law for they to understand , interpret and apply . small business do not have the same resource as big business . they often have no legal department , no compliance team and perhaps no human resource specialist . because small business be often root in their community , they be conscious of their reputation . they know their employee and they want to get thing right . that mean it will take extra time , effort and cost for they to navigate and comply with this part of the Bill , and that be before we get to everything else that the Government be seek to introduce . small business be tell I that , take the measure of the employment Bill together with the change to national insurance and business rate and everything else , they feel overwhelmed . all that new clause 110 do be ask the Government to conduct an impact assessment . we know that small business be passionate about their employee . small business be often the one to give people their first job . they be often the company that give people a second chance . they provide part - time , flexible working and opportunity to return to work , so I encourage the Government to look at the impact of part 4 on small business . new clause 111 be about introduce legal aid in employment tribunal . when legal aid be first introduce , the intention be for it to become the NHS of the justice system , but we know that today legal aid be far from that . our amendment would require the Secretary of State to report on option for expand the right to legal aid in employment tribunal . we already know that many employee can not afford legal representation , and that create an imbalance of power when face well - resource employer . the amendment simply ask the Government to look at the option that might be available in that regard . new clause 112 ask for a review of the single enforcement body . we Liberal Democrats positively support the Government ' s effort to create a single point of contact , rather than four . a similar measure be in our manifesto , where we call for a powerful new worker protection enforcement authority . as a matter of good practice , when put different organisation together , it be important to make sure that no gap be create in that protection . the review we ask for be not just a formality , but an important safeguard to ensure that employment right enforcement be effective , fair and fit for purpose . there be much in the Bill that we liberal Democrats welcome , but there be many part of it that we simply can not support because it be not yet clear what the Government ' s intention be . we urge the Government , in the strong possible term , to look at the impact on small business , as it be an area about which we be deeply concerned . it be a pleasure to speak in the debate , follow the speech from the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) . I have to remind he that trade unionist be the bedrock of our community . they be the producer of the wealth in this country . they be taxpayer , and they be ordinary , hard - work people . they should not be describe as , basically , the dirt on the shoe of other people . the shadow Minister could hardly hide his disdain for ordinary work people ; he could not hold himself back from oppose everything in the Bill . I begin by declare my interest as a proud trade union member — a member of the National Union of Mineworkers and unite the union , and an honorary member of the Prison Officers Association — and as the chair of the trade union group of Labour MPs . it be a pleasure to speak about a piece of legislation that turn the tide on decade of anti - trade union law — law that have restrict the power of worker and see the wealth of those at the top grow exponentially . on a personal note , let I say that it be fitting that the Bill should be before the House this week . last Wednesday mark 40 year since I — along with my father , who have sadly pass on , my brother and thousand of my colleague — march back to work at the end of the miner ' strike . the fact that , although bruised and batter , I be still here today speak about the Bill prove that while the party of vulture capital may have win a victory in 1985 , they do not win the war . this be a good Bill , but it could have be a lot well . through further time , further discussion and further legislation , it will prove to be a great Bill , and I believe that the new clause and amendment that I have table would strengthen and enhance it . worker in the UK have never , ever have the right to strike , but since 1906 their union have have protection against common - law liability , subject to the meeting of statutory condition . new clause 108 would establish a positive right to strike , bring the UK into line with most of the democratic world . it would also remove provision that make strike action unlawful if it turn out , retrospectively , that the action the worker take be unofficial . that be important , because worker currently have to take it in good faith that the union have manage to navigate the bureaucracy of take action , and that unscrupulous boss can not summarily dismiss they if it have not . new clause 109 be wide - ranging . the UK ' s ban on secondary action be almost unique in the world , condemn on every occasion when the International Labour Organisation have consider the position since 1989 . when P & O Ferries flout its legal obligation by not consult over mass dismissal and by dismiss people unfairly , the union be unable to react by call on dock worker , lorry driver and worker in other industry on the dockside to boycott the vessel in dispute . that be outrageous : we need to bring back solidarity action . I want to support people in industrial dispute , and new clause 109 would put situation like that right by end the ban on secondary action . it would remove the need to provide a ballot paper to the employer , remove the obligation on union in long - run dispute to rerun the ballot every six month , and enable industrial action to achieve recognition for collective bargaining . amendment 347 and 348 would change the requirement for notification about the result of a union ballot , mean that they could be display online with easy access for the public . amendment 345 and 346 would remove the restriction confine picket to the worker ' s workplace . the reason secondary picketing be ban in the first place be the fact that it be a tool that benefit worker and advance their cause . solidarity action should be an important part of seek the resolution of dispute . the Bill bring measure that aim to end discrimination and place equality at the heart of the workplace . it give key worker in social care and school support more say in pay and condition through their union . it bring measure to tackle exploitative zero - hour contract , give protection against unfair dismissal from day one , and extend sick pay right . it repeal minimum service level law and the majority of the reactionary Trade Union Act 2016 , provide great right for worker to organise collectively through their trade union , and reduce bureaucracy affect trade union during industrial action process . the howl of derision from Opposition Members show that the Labour Government be do the right thing . this be a good Bill that should mark the start of a process . I hope that my hon . friend the Minister , who have do a fantastic job , understand that we be all just try to strengthen the Bill through our amendment . while we accept those howl of derision from the Conservatives , it be worth remind the House , and indeed the country , that the turquoise Trumpian Tories in Reform have also oppose the Bill at every step of the way . perhaps it be because , as a company — for that be what they be — they want to ensure that their worker , such as the hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) , be limit in how they can address workplace bully by the owner ; or perhaps it be because , while they masquerade as a party for the ordinary man and woman of this country , in reality they be simply a Margaret Thatcher tribute act with a sprinkle of bigotry , determine to advance her destructive agenda at all cost , regardless of its impact on work people across our country . rise — order . More than 30 member wish to speak . I do not want to set a time limit , but if member can police themselves and keep their speech to just shy of eight minute , everyone will definitely get in . I wish to develop some of the detailed and eloquent argument advance by my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , and to speak in particular about the amendment relate to part 4 of the Bill and the trade union movement . before he leave , let I thank the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) for his very measure comment . I enjoy his referral back to the industrial relation of the 1950 , although I should point out that we have move on a little since then ; I will say more about that shortly . I also think that he simplify the opposition ' s position . we be not here to bash the union . we support a progressive , modern trade union movement in which the balance be strike correctly between employer and employee . union should not and do not run business , but they be an important part of our industrial relation landscape . there can be little doubt that this be , unfortunately , a Bill draft by the few to the detriment of the many , and the numerous provision that will largely abolish the Trade Union Act 2016 threaten to drag the country back to the dark day of the 1970 . the very enjoyable speech that we have just hear from the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) perhaps illustrate that return to the 1970 . I be pleased to see a number of his friend from the rebellious left on the Government Benches , and I look forward to hear their comment in due course . the Trade Union Act 2016 be bring in by the last Conservative Government to reflect the modern british economy and workplace . it move the trade union movement into the 21st century and ensure that hard - work people be not disrupt by little - support strike action . in my constituency of Congleton , we have be blight by approximately seven year of strike action by Northern . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the key to modern industrial relation be to have good industrial relation , not to pull apart Bills that make thing well ? I think the good solution would be proper privatisation of our railway , include nationalise service like Northern , which be constantly on strike . I would use Hull train , which serve a lot of constituent in my area and be very rarely , if at all , on strike , as an example of an excellent , private open - access firm . rail franchise that have be nationalise have a far great problem with strike action than those that have not . I wish to go back briefly to the ' 70 — the height of the trade union movement . the number of trade union member peak in 1979 , at around 14 million . since then , the number have decline considerably to around 6 million , the majority of whom be in the public sector . it be often for good reason that people in the public sector be member of a union , but it mean that the landscape have change . we have move away from be a society and an economy of heavy industry and large manufacturing , and of town that may have be build on one or two industry , or one or two factory , where everybody in that area be largely employ , either directly or indirectly , in those place . that be where the trade union movement be require , where it be strong and where it be need . the modern workplace be very different . we be now largely a service - base economy , and the relationship between employer and employee be much more modern and much more flexible . we have hear about the need for the traditional trade union movement , and about a return to secondary action , fly picket and so forth . clearly , there be no place at all for that in the UK now . the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) suggest that we should have a return to secondary action . what be my hon . friend ' s view ? I do not want to speak on behalf of the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) , but he make his view very clear . I be sure that we will hear more in that tone as we go through the afternoon . it be really important that the Bill do not take we back to a place where growth be stifle . the Government talk about the importance of growth but , take together , this Bill and the Budget will cause we a very severe problem , because there be very little point in have extra trade union representation if unemployment be go through the roof . those who be unemployed will not be represent . my big fear be that , overall , this Bill be an act of economic sabotage . it protect the dinosaur from extinction , it damage the UK economy and it ensure only that trade union donation continue to flow into the Labour party . my membership of Unison , and of the national executive of Unison prior to my election , be well document . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . what people on this side of the House probably do not know be that I be also an associate member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development , the professional body for the people profession , and I have spend over 20 year as a manager and an employer . I have therefore spend most of my career work with people , manage people and employ people . I have ensure that staffing level be maintain on the hour that people be contract and available to work , and I have manage their flexibility without have to resort to bank or agency staff every week . however , as a trade union rep , I have prepare for and work on consultative ballot , statutory industrial action ballot and — oh yeah — political fund ballot . I have do the hard yard : I have walk the ward at 3 o ' clock in the morning to speak to the night shift , and I have go out to remote workplace to engage with people . but I have also meet management to agree on what essential level of service be . I pay tribute to all of those who have work on this Bill to get it to the place where it be today , and I welcome its come back to the House . I believe in fair work ; a relationship between the employer and the worker that be base on equality ; a fair day ' s pay for a fair day ' s work ; and the right of an individual to withdraw their labour should worker collectively vote to do so . we discuss yesterday what a healthy employment relationship look like , and it be about more than just pay . it be about how people be treat at work , and it be about ensure that work pay and that people have not only a job but guarantee hour , if that be what they want . if someone want to work full time , they should not have to work two or maybe three contract with the same employer to make up those hour , or to work the same excess hour every week for month and month — until they want to take an annual leave day , when they lose their entitlement to that . today ' s amendment focus on two main aspect of the Bill : the right of trade union to organise in a way that we recognise in the 21st century , and how this vital piece of legislation be enforce . as we have be remind , the world of work have change fundamentally in the last 20 year , and so have the world of trade union . I listen very carefully , and with great respect , to the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , who speak of the combative and adversarial nature of trade union , but that be not the world that I recognise . I be grateful to the hon . member for address some of my concern , and I look forward to hear what she say . just to be clear , I be talk about what can be a combative work environment for employee and employer , and I say there be a miss opportunity to create more collaborative environment . I be not necessarily accuse the trade union , but working environment can be combative . thank you very much for your intervention . I have 20 year ' experience of work in a partnership arrangement , and staff - side trade union have be the agree and recognise body for staff in the NHS . it be natural to sit down together and say , " these be our issue . how do we resolve they ? " it be a lot more financially advantageous if we do not end up in a situation that be adversarial . electronic balloting have long be common practice , but not for statutory trade union ballot . this be not just about public vote on " strictly come dancing " or " I ' m a celebrity … get I out of here ! " I notice that the conservative leadership election in 2024 make great use of electronic balloting . it be absolutely time for trade union ballot to be bring into line with society , so I welcome the measure in the Bill to widen the method of voting in industrial action ballot . while I be on the subject of balloting , let I also say that I support the extension of the period of time before a re - ballot take place to extend the mandate for strike action . the ultimate aim of any form of industrial action be for dispute to be resolve by all of the party involve , ideally before any action be take , before labour be withdraw , before individual lose their money and before the public be affect . the role of the Government should be to ensure that intransigent party get round the table and talk in order to resolve any issue . conservative Members have remind we that when face with that opportunity , they do exactly the opposite . they introduce the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 , a piece of legislation that be so useless that it have stop precisely zero strike . it be use precisely zero time and be rightly be repeal as part of this legislation . what Conservative member do not recognise be that trade union and trade union member do not take action lightly . I do wonder what the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , be think , because he have obviously never talk to trade union member . People know their right , they want to belong to thing and they want to be involve . People collectively make such decision , and they individually make decision about their subscription — and by golly they know , because they have tell I . these provision have not be bring in with business kick and scream . Most business that work well with people know exactly what be go on . in the interest of time , let I say that I completely endorse this Bill and every aspect of its enforcement . everybody know somebody who be be exploit at work . the Bill will prevent that happen . it be time to rebalance the employment relationship . Miss Murray , you use the term " you " . if it make it easy , you can speak focus on the Chair , and that way you will not make such a mistake . say " thank you " mean thank I , and it get very complicated for Hansard , so it be good not to do that . just focus on the Chair , and that will help . I need to make a correction . I should draw member ' attention to a printing error in Government new clause 52 as it appear in the print version of today ' s amendment paper . the closing word at the end of subsection ( 1 ) should read : " the Secretary of State may withdraw it by give a notice of withdrawal to the person . " a correct version of the amendment paper be available online . this be a chaotic mess of a Bill , cobble together in 100 day to satisfy a press release . we have the unedifye spectacle of an amendment paper that be 274 page long , as the Government try to correct their many mistake . the main thing that I want to address in my short speech be the idea that Labour be beholden to the union . that be often suggest , but let we just look at the fact , because we need to put this to bed . between 2019 and 2024 , Labour receive only £ 31 , 314 , 589 from the union , and in this Parliament more than 200 Labour mp have be pay directly by the union . the Ministers in the Department for Business and Trade have collectively receive about £ 120 , 000 from union . what be the union pay for ? whatever it be , they have be handsomely repay in the drafting of this Bill . to make it easy for Labour Members , who be all here to hear my point of order , perhaps they could put their hand up if they have not receive any cash from the union — oh dear , oh dear ! clause 52 suggest that there should be a requirement to contribute to political fund when people join a union . it change the rule on how union member should donate and how they should contribute political fund to the Labour party . clause 52 ( 2 ) change subscription from an opt - in to an opt - out . that raise the question : why do we need this clause ? what be the problem that the Labour party be try to fix ? be £ 31 million just not enough ? this clause encourage union , when sign up member , to take advantage of their distraction , because member will not be focus on that and they will fall into what be in effect a subscription trap . in other circumstance , the Labour party do not think that subscription trap be a very good idea . in fact , the Government send out a press release on 18 November 2024 entitle , " new measure unveil to crack down on subscription trap " . that sound good so far . it say : " consultation launch on measure to crack down on ' subscription trap ' and well protect shopper … unwanted subscription cost family £ 14 per month per subscription and £ 1 . 6 billion a year in total " . it go on : " new proposal to crack down on subscription trap have be unveil today … ' subscription trap ' be instance where consumer be frequently mislead into sign up for a subscription … it come as new figure reveal consumer be spend billion of pound each year on unwanted subscription due to unclear term and condition and complicated cancellation route . " the Business Secretary say : " our mission be to put more money back into people ' s pocket and improve living standard across this country , tackle subscription trap that rip people ' s earning away be an important part of that . " clause 52 fly in the face of that press release . do the hon . Gentleman agree that there be a massive difference between major corporation want to take money out of people ' s bank account every month and trade union want to represent people as effectively as possible in the workplace ? I do not accept that difference . take advantage of people ' s inattention , as this clause expressly set out to do , be take advantage of people for financial gain . the difference be that the people who gain in this instance be Labour Members . that beg the question : why have they draft this clause and why , shamingly , will they vote for it later ? will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will in a moment . here we have it : a clause of direct financial interest to Labour Members . we have so far have two speaker who have both receive very significant sum from the union , to which they do not directly refer . the first be the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) , who have receive £ 20 , 000 from the union , accord to his entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the second be the hon . member for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) , who have receive £ 14 , 000 directly from the union . this be germane to this debate . as have be say already in this debate , trade union donation have be declare , but donation from employer who have a direct private interest in particular sector that we have debate in this place have not be declare . if any of the hon . member ' s colleague have not draw attention to such an interest , will he encourage they to do so ? do he agree with we on the Labour Benches that they be wrong not to make such a declaration ? order . there be two point of order on declaration early , and I think I make the situation quite clear . I just wish to let Mr Mayhew know that , if he be refer to member directly with any form of criticism , he be mean to give they prior warning , so he should be mindful of that for what come next in his speech . the intervention from the hon . member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) be a classic distraction technique . this Bill address the union and union membership , and clause 52 move money from unsuspecting union joiner directly to the Labour party . there be no other explanation for the clause . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way to the hon . Lady , and then I will make some progress . the hon . Member be work incredibly hard to try to make a case for vested interest in relation to this Bill . those vested interest be in the work people of this country . nevertheless , I appreciate his effort , and he certainly have earn his afternoon snack today . this precede my time in this Chamber , and my hon . friend may be able to help I , but be he as vociferous during the pandemic — a time of national crisis — when close relationship with senior Government figure secure contract that produce no personal protective equipment when the country be in such desperate need ? I do not follow that , so I will just have to move on . the hon . member for Clwyd East ( Becky Gittins ) have just make a point suggest that work people be not impact by the behaviour of trade union , but do my hon . friend agree that it be the work people of this country who be hammer the most when Labour Members ’ paymaster , the trade union , go on strike ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . I can not add any more to that . he have hit the nail on the head . I support amendment 291 , in the name of the Opposition , which would remove clause 52 . at the moment , this be a circular bill of self - interest : Labour member get money from the union , the Bill increase union power and that clause increase the amount of money from the union . the clause be brazen and shame , and it should be remove . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and to my proud trade union membership — I be a member of the Communication Workers Union and the GMB . for too long , work family in Paisley and Renfrewshire South have be let down by outdated employment law unfit for a modern economy , leave too many worker trap in insecure , low - pay job . when the Conservatives crash the economy , who bear the brunt ? not they . People in insecure , low - pay role be leave to bear the brunt of their economic incompetence . everyone watch this debate will remember , on the previous Government ' s watch , the dread of open their bill and mortgage statement , and see just how much their cost have skyrocket . they will remember be at the supermarket check - out and be force to put essential back on the shelf because they cost much more than they do the week before . some parent will remember sit at the dinner table and watch their child eat while they go without . for too long , too many people in our community have go to work not to build a well future , but simply to scrape by . they work very hard for the poverty they then experience . as a former trade union negotiator , I spend more than 20 year of my work life stand up for people in low - pay job . as a former head of local government for UNISON Scotland , I be proud to represent the bin collector , the carer and the school support worker , all of whom be the bedrock and the backbone of our local community , and on whom we rely so much during the covid pandemic . when their bill go up , they turn to their trade union , ask we to negotiate for nothing more than a fair day ' s wage for a fair day ' s work . yet under law introduce by the previous Government , fight for those worker too often feel like fight with one arm tie behind our back , within a legal framework that allow bad business to ignore trade union and the voice of worker ; allow business to flood a bargaining group to prevent trade union recognition and weaken worker ' voice ; and allow employer to impose minimum service level — an attack on worker ’ right that do nothing to address the reason why our public service be struggle . let I be clear : Labour member have no problem with business . the problem be that the previous Government allow exploitation to thrive . Most business want to do right by their worker . they know that fair pay and good condition lead to happy worker and a more productive economy . they know that treat worker fairly be not a burden , but a benefit . that be why the Bill be so important . it fix these issue . it expand statutory sick pay to help people improve their health and wellbeing and get back to work . it improve industrial relation and will give worker strong protection with regard to their holiday pay . it introduce a new Fair Work Agency to enforce those new right , because , frankly , there be no point in have those right unless they can be enforce . what the conservative party just do not get be that be pro - worker be be pro - business and pro - growth . when they introduce burdensome red tape on trade union , they introduce burdensome red tape on business and their ability to engage in the bargaining and negotiation process that settle dispute quickly . negotiation with trade union mean few dispute , few day lose to industrial action , and great economic stability . at the general election , Labour pledge to make the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation , restore dignity to work and put more money in family ' pocket . today , we take another step towards deliver that promise . I want we to be more ambitious — we on the Labour Benches be always ambitious — and draw the Minister ' s attention to the potential issue in the Bill regard the low earning limit for statutory sick pay . I hope that can be resolve when the Bill go to the other place . I finish with a quote from Paisley ' s own Robert Tannahill : " through summer and winter so dreary I cheerily toil ' d on the farm , nor ever once dream ' d grow weary , for love give my labour its charm . " good work be good for people . it provide dignity . work should provide security , not uncertainty . it should be a source of pride , not precarity . it should be a means of build a good life ; it should not just allow people to scrape by . that be what the Bill stand for , and what this Labour Government stand for and will fight for , and I be proud to support it . I would like to address the hon . Lady ' s point that be pro - worker be pro - business . we Conservative Members believe that . the only problem be that this legislation be not pro - worker or pro - business . it will drive up unemployment and the regulation of business . the worker whom she purport to represent and support be exactly the people who will suffer as a result of this legislation . we Conservative Members absolutely get that . I will talk in favour of amendment on the political fund , new clause 88 and amendment 291 and 299 , and will refer to access to the workplace . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , not least because I work in a small family business and retain an interest in the family business . also , before be elect , I be president of the Greater Birmingham chamber of commerce , one of the large and old chamber of commerce in the country and the world , represent thousand of small business . let we be in no doubt : this be a terrible piece of legislation . it be a love letter from the Labour Government to trade union , and it will lead to a trail of socialist carnage and destruction that will leave the country reel for many , many year to come . it harm business , undermine employment , will drive up unemployment and will do nothing to increase growth or investment in the United Kingdom , the purport aim of the Government . in fact , the Government ' s original impact assessment , when the Bill be first introduce , talk about the cost to business be about £ 4 . 5 billion , reach almost £ 5 billion . we be yet to see the impact of the new amendment — a further move to a more socialist version of the Bill — and their cost to business . the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , who be a friend and neighbour , talk about the modern workplace . I agree that the workplace have change since the 1950 and even the 1970 , but the Bill will take the workplace back to the 1970 . it fail to achieve a balance between work people and business , and a relationship between trade union and business . in fact , it go way , way down the line in favour trade union , and it make it much hard for people to run business . when I be president of the chamber of commerce , I be perfectly fine with trade union and have good relationship with they . I have friend who join trade union , even though they be not in a unionised workplace . I encourage it . they need representation , and I think it be a good thing to do . I have no problem with trade union relationship in the modern workplace , but a balance must be achieve . a comment be make about economic unit . economic unit be the business that create economic growth . of course worker be really important . my employee be really important to I , because my business could not run without they . the majority of business owner recognise that . conservative Members recognise that there be a symbiotic relationship between the people who run business and the employee who work in they . those individual run business be driver of economic change . they be innovator who come up with the idea . they be the risk taker who turn a profit , which pay the taxis that fund our public service . unfortunately , the Bill do not recognise any of that . in fact , business be anxious and be worried about what it be introduce . no , they be not . they be absolutely be . the Deputy Prime Minister , when challenge to name a business that support the Bill , could not do so . [ interruption . ] I be sure the hon . Member will have an opportunity to speak on the matter in his own way . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill be also badly draft ? even if member support the content , it be a badly draft Bill that be bring before the House far too quickly . such a huge bill of this nature should have have time . it be hardly surprising that the Government be table so many amendment , because they be still write it . I could not have make the point well . the number of amendment , and the cost and regulatory burden be place on business , large , medium and small , have worry many business , not just in my constituency but across the country . this will do immense harm , and it will take a long time to fix the mess that have be create . there be 24 member sit on the Government Benches . would my hon . friend like to issue an open invitation to they to name a single small business that have be in touch to say that it support this legislation ? I be more than happy to extend that invitation . Madam Deputy Speaker may get annoy with I if I take 24 intervention , although I do not see anyone jump to their foot , so we will take that for what it be . there be also anxiety about the clause on access to the workplace . the Government have now go far and talk about digital access . this be a huge burden to put on small business , and it be shameful of the Government wilfully and blindly to ignore their concern . Labour Members will have to answer many question from business in their community . those same business contribute to the Treasury coffer and pay for the public service that Labour Members champion . this will be really important , and the burden will of course increase . before — and after — the election , and during the passage of this legislation , Labour have say time and again that it be listen to business . clearly that be not the case . business continue to feel that they have be lead up the garden path by this damaging Labour Government . we in Labour have listen to business . Ann Francke of the Chartered Management Institute have go on record as say : " the Employment Rights Bill represent a significant step forward in improve condition for the UK ' s workforce . " the hon . Lady should speak to the Deputy Prime Minister , who fail to name a single supportive business when challenge to do so . in the short time I have leave , I will make a couple of quick point . Labour member keep say that the Bill will lead to few strike . it will not ; it make it easy to strike . in fact , the Transport Secretary today say that strike will be necessary in the area cover by her portfolio . the Bill will make it easy to strike , not hard . [ interruption . ] Labour member be exercise ; I be sure that they will get a chance to comment . the country be at risk of be turn into a 1970s - style strike country . this Bill should be a wake - up call for all work people and business that will be undermine . as we have hear from member from across the House , only the Conservatives will stand up for business . I have question for all Labour Members . People ask what this Labour Government stand for . they undermine business and work people , so that be a legitimate question . I fail to see who , other than trade union , the Labour party now stand for . when people ask what we conservative stand for , Margaret Thatcher have a very good answer . she say that the Labour party — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) , who speak before I , read out a quote ; I think I should do so as well . Margaret Thatcher say : " the Labour Party believe in turn worker against owner ; we believe in turn worker into owner . " I proudly draw attention to my membership of the Unite union and my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and I thank my friend at the GMB and ASLEF for their support of my election campaign . I be in this place to stand up for work people , and that be what I will do . the good protection anyone can have at work be the support of their workmate , organise together in a union , and bargaining with management , sit down with they as equal at the table , and make sure that the business grow and thrive , and that everyone take home a fair wage . this Bill and the Government amendment will make it easy for work people to choose their union , be represent by their union , and get all the benefit of be in a recognised union , so that we have an economy where well term and condition at work go hand in hand with the growth that we need . let we be clear : this Bill support growth . it could add £ 13 billion to the economy through improvement to employee wellbeing , reduce stress , improve national minimum wage compliance , reduce workplace conflict , and increase labour market participation . that be the type of growth that we want . I invite the hon . Lady to acknowledge the £ 5 billion cost to business that the Government ' s own analysis say will be cause by the Bill . I do acknowledge that , every single of which will go into the pocket of a work person in improve right and high wage , alongside £ 13 billion of increase productivity , reduce stress , well employee wellbee and reduce conflict in the workplace . on the amendment , I will start with access to workplace , which be the key to get more worker into union . I strongly welcome provision to give union the right to access workplace for meeting , represent , organise , recruiting and collective bargaining . I be glad the Government amend the rule to ensure they cover digital as well as physical access , and I be glad to see the Central Arbitration Committee oversight and penalty when employer do not comply , as be sometimes the case . once a union have establish membership in a workplace , it will want to seek recognition . Most employer do not have to be force to recognise a union — it be just what they do as a responsible employer — but where employer refuse , statutory recognition can be trigger . until now that process have be absolutely mad and totally dysfunctional , and the card be stack against the work people and their union at every turn . the bad example of this in recent year be at BHX4 in Coventry where a company dedicate to keep union out of its warehouse bring its US - style industrial relation to the UK , and take on its own worker who want no more and no less than for management to have to sit down and negotiate with their union , the GMB . Amazon be a £ 27 billion company in the UK yet its sale be grow three time high than its frontline worker ’ wage and it have have 1 , 400 ambulance call - out in just five year . BHX4 in Coventry be not a safe workplace , with fulfilment centre worker get injure , be ask to pick up too much , to load from the back of vehicle on their own , and to lift heavy weight above their head . those worker at that Amazon plant be force to take 37 day of industrial action over poverty pay . at the Select Committee , the company ' s badly brief , evasive executive could not bring themselves to acknowledge that . recognise the GMB be a modest request , something 1 , 000 company would have accept without question , but not Amazon . at the Select Committee , the GMB organiser , Amanda Gearing , tell we that Amazon flood the bargaining unit ; there be 1 , 400 worker when the GMB first seek statutory recognition but , strangely , just 27 day after that application go in the number go up to 2 , 749 . Amanda tell we how Amazon delay the access agreement — 52 day to agree access to the workplace , a chance for the company to swamp the worker with anti - union propaganda . all the screen in the warehouse and the app use for work allocation be anti - union , threaten to close the site if worker unionise . when the access scheme be finally agree , the GMB get a tiny number of screen and one 45 - minute session with each worker , while Amazon have five one - hour session and screen everywhere . it induce GMB member to leave the union and in every way impede access . I pay tribute to the GMB leader at Amazon in Coventry : Ceferina Floresca , Garfield Hylton , Paramanathan Pradeep and Mohammednur Mohammed — hero , all of they . stand up to huge intimidation and under huge pressure , they run a brilliant campaign , but the deck be stack against they , and they lose the ballot by a heartbreaking 29 vote . the GMB ' s general secretary , my friend Gary Smith , be clear : if the legislation we be debate today have be in place , the GMB member at Amazon would have win their fight . the hon . Lady be a fearsome campaigner on the Business and Trade Committee . she talk about intimidation and paint a lovely picture of union work actively for their worker , but how can we square that with the version of intimidation that the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) seem to be refer to with the return of fly picket ? before the hon . Lady respond , she will no doubt realise that she be close to eight minute . I know she will want to speak for a little while , but not too much long . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank my fellow member of the Business and Trade Committee for his intervention . as he will have see from the amendment paper , the Government be not propose the return of secondary picketing . new schedule 2 will give union great protection from unfair practice during a recognition process and make win it more likely . I wish that Ministers have go the whole hog and delete the three - year lockout ; perhaps there will be an opportunity to take that forward . in conclusion , as a whole , this package of modern industrial relation will lead to more sit roundtable sort out issue , few picket line , few strike , more productive relationship , more long - termism across our industrial base , well job , high wage , high skill and high productivity . that be why the change in this Bill to both collective right and individual right be so crucial , and so oppose by the Tories and the absent Reform party . this be the type of growth that my party stand for — the type of growth where proceed be share by all . it be time to make work pay . it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) . she be such a compelling advocate that I be tempt to go on strike myself . I do sense a certain amount of antipathy between the two side of the House , so , before I come on to make a fair point in support of amendment 292 , I want to prepare the ground by do two thing . first , I want to try to convince Labour Members that they miss an opportunity , because I be , at heart , a rabble - rouse potential motivator of people . when , about three christmas ago , the ambulance driver go on strike , it irk I that the soldier who be go to stand in for they at no notice would have their Christmas ruin , so I start a campaign to try to get they an additional £ 20 for every day they stand in for the ambulance driver . this plan be — the Chancellor would have love this — net positive to the Treasury . of course , the department that employ the ambulance driver and the arm ' s length body do not pay they on strike day , and the pay differential between they and the £ 20 bung to the soldier mean that the Government still save money . I manage to get the Sun on board and get a letter into the paper , and do a bit of television . be the hon . Gentleman not ashame that , under his government , hard - work ambulance driver feel they have to go on strike ? I think the hon . Lady have slightly miss the point of what I be say . read the body language of member on the Government Benches , I think they all want to hear how this story end up . it do help that the then Secretary of State for Defence be a friend of mine , with whom I serve in the Scots Guards . we do get the £ 20 bung for all the service personnel who stand in — regardless of the fact , interestingly , that all the general , air marshal and admiral be against it , as be all the official . there you go — I very much have the same value at heart . secondly , to win over the other side of the House to the very fair point I will come on to make , let I pay tribute to the remark of the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , in respect of union membership , that he want people to " make a fair choice one way or the other " . I note that the hon . member for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) also refer to fair work . I want to come back to that theme of fairness in address amendment 292 . the Bill be , to put it politely , something of a cat ' s cradle of clause , so I will briefly remind the House that the Bill seek to place on employer an obligation to give their worker a write statement that they have the right to join a union , and , if they do join , to contribute to the political fund . amendment 292 would simply inject a bit of balance into the legislation by require trade union to notify their member annually that they have a right to opt out of the political fund and to obtain an annual opt - in from their member . this all put I in mind of November 1988 , when Mrs Thatcher be about to visit Poland . at Prime Minister ' s question , just prior to her go , an Opposition Member stand up and ask whether she would raise with Lech wa ł ę sa the right to join a trade union . there may be some member present who be there — I will not be so ungallant as to ask . a roar go up from the Labour Benches , and the redoubtable Mrs Thatcher reply that she would raise with the Poles the right to join a trade union , but that she would also raise the right not to be a member . the Bill seek to whack the pendulum pretty hard in favour of union power ; our amendment would bring it back into balance somewhat . we all know someone , after all , who have fall prey to one of those charity mugger who stop people in the street and try to sign they up to whichever charity they be be pay by that day . I have know people who have do that job , and it be not an easy one . similarly , any Member of this House who stand in a precinct and try to sell their political brand and get people to sign up will attest to that completely . sometimes , the charity collector be successful , and the all - important direct debit detail be extract . in fact , I remember hear a number of Labour Members rail against this practice in the previous Parliament . amendment 292 would remind worker that they still have an off - ramp , if they want one — they still have agency , and they still have freedom of choice . we have hear Member after Member stand up over the past two day of debate and declare — in some case sheepishly , in some case more proudly — the money they receive from the trade union . this be only right and proper . the public can make up their own mind as to whether this money have colour the judgment of Labour Members , or whether it be simply support from an organisation that share their value . but to turn down amendment 292 would , in my view , be a dreadful look . this be a totally measure , balance amendment and , if Labour Members vote against it , the public would be right to conclude that the Government be be motivate not by a sense of equality , fairness and justice , but instead by something else . I urge hon . member to vote for amendment 292 and to give power to the people . it be a pleasure to be call to speak for a second time on Report . I proudly refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a member of Unite the union . much have be say about trade union and strike action , as if the only purpose of a trade union be to get worker out on strike . it be a mischaracterisation of union , as be so eloquently describe by my hon . friend the Member for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) . it be also a mischaracterisation of corporate Britain to think that everyone be exploitative and abusive . the majority of company in our country adhere to environmental , social and governance principle , and they make that commitment ; they want to demonstrate that they be responsible people . they want that for their investor and for long - term sustained investment , so we have to draw back on those view and step away from the disdain and the contempt for work people and for trade union , which be not helpful . I shall now move on to the substantive issue . on Government amendment 250 , I wish to express my support for the strengthening of the role of the Fair Work Agency , enforce the decision on pay by the new negotiating body for social care . adult social care be the sector uppermost in our thinking when consider the concept of fair pay agreement negotiate through sectoral collective bargaining , as express in the new deal for work people . I note during the Bill ' s Committee stage that the TUC General Secretary , Paul Nowak , say : " body as disparate as the International Monetary Fund and the OECD have talk about the benefit of union and collective bargaining in modern economy — benefit in term of improve productivity and business performance , but also benefit for worker in term of increase pay . " – – [ Official Report , Employment Rights Public Bill Committee , 26 November 2024 ; c . 67 , Q63 . ] the TUC have say : " we would like the Bill to include power to extend Fair Pay agreement to other sector . " I wholeheartedly agree with that , but fpa of themselves do not remedy the broad need for much great sectoral collective bargaining . unite the union have say that " we would like to see further measure in the Bill to extend collective bargaining " . – – [ Official Report , Employment Rights Public Bill Committee , 26 November 2024 ; c . 70 , Q66 . ] the general secretary of the National Union of Rail , Maritime and Transport Workers say that " we would like it very straightforward that there be go to be provision — an amendment — for sectoral collective bargaining . " – – [ Official Report , Employment Rights Public Bill Committee , 26 November 2024 ; c . 66 , Q62 . ] to ensure that the Government can establish new negotiating body support fair pay agreement elsewhere in the economy , I have table new clause 68 . a good starting point for the Government to demonstrate the benefit of sectoral collective bargaining would be in the civil service , and I hope that the plan to modernise the civil service will end the inefficient situation of hundred of separate pay bargaining unit and negotiation each year . I wish now to consider private sector contracting . the Deputy Prime Minister and the Chancellor be among those who have commit to the big wave of insource in a generation , and I look forward to the national procurement policy set that out . in the meantime , we have see picket line at Government Departments for month , as G4S , ISS and ocs security fail to meet with representative of the Public and Commercial Services Union to resolve pay and condition dispute . under my new clause 66 , the Secretary of State would have a duty to ensure that any Government Department contract , or similar public contract , recognise an independent trade union for the purpose of collective bargaining . I hope the Government will be address this issue outwith the Bill in the near future . with regard to the right of access , a number of new Government amendment clarify the process relate to access , include the right to communicate with worker , include digital communication . but I remain concerned that the process create a complicated framework that risk employer slow the process , rather than provide for effective union access , and that the propose model of financial penalty do not provide any remedy for the union . I remain of the opinion that union should always have a simple right of access to their member . my new clause 70 set out how an " official of an independent trade union shall have a right to enter premise , meet , represent , recruit or organise worker and facilitate collective bargaining " . I be clear that such access require prior notification in writing , set out the purpose of a meeting and which employee would join such a meeting . I fear the process set out may not work effectively and I hope the Government will be open to further simplification in the future . on recognition , I note that the Government ' s new schedule 2 update the original clause 51 , with additional and welcome provision on union recognition process , include prevent an employer inflate the bargaining unit with transfer employee à la Amazon , where worker ascribe to that bargaining unit have no connection with it whatsoever . this be to prevent employer reach a recognition agreement with a non - independent union to prevent recognition with an independent one . the Government have be absolutely right to close off the sweetheart deal arrangement . More can be do regard recognition , however , which be why I have table amendment 271 , which seek to reduce the need for a ballot and ensure that the Central Arbitration Committee grant automatic recognition in certain circumstance , or a simple majority of those vote in other circumstance . I have also seek to lengthen the period for make a complaint about unfair practice in connection with the ballot from one to 20 working day — I know the Government have shift that from one to five , but that be as many union and the TUC have set out — and to remove the three - year barrier to a union that have lose an application for recognition , replace three year with three month . it be unjust , particularly give the anti - union measure deploy , that the GMB can not quickly pursue a recognition process at Amazon ' s Coventry warehouse , where the union lose , as we previously hear , by just 29 vote . it be unjust that they should be push out for such a long period , and I hope the Government will remain alive to the need to update that . in conclusion , I be pleased to have be afford the opportunity to speak for a second time on Report . we have , in this Employment Rights Bill , a momentous uplift in worker ’ right and protection , which address the balance that have swing far too far in the opposite direction . however , the appetite remain for yet further improvement . I commend the Government for their work in bring forward the legislation , which I wholeheartedly support . I look forward to work together far on the journey to deliver well - pay , secure and unionised employment . although I have broadly welcome the Bill as it have progress through the House , I have caveate that by state that the Labour Government should be bold and must go far in future for the right and protection to become entrenched rather than roll back . indeed , on Second Reading I quote the Scottish Trades Union Congress general Secretary , Roz Foyer , who summarise the Bill by say : " the Employment Rights Bill isn ' t the terminus . it ' s the first stop . this can be the foundation on which we can build . " I agree . the hon . member may not have have a chance to look at the Government website and encounter the document entitle " next step to make work pay " , which set out a programme of continue work to improve right at work and parental leave and the review of employment status to come . I be sure he will be glad to hear that . no , I have not have the chance to look at the Government website , but I thank the hon . member for raise that . as I have broadly say , I support the Bill , but there be reason why I be contribute to the debate , not least because of a lack of devolution to the Scottish Parliament , which I will come to shortly . on Second Reading , the shadow Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and local Government , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , make it explicitly clear that the foundation will not be build upon in the long term , as a future Conservative Government would simply repeal protection . he declare that " many of the measure will be bring in through secondary legislation , therefore make it easy for a future government to reverse some of the catastrophic change . " — [ Official Report , 21 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 58 . ] employment right for worker in Scotland can not be dependent on the merry - go - round of Westminster politic . they have see their right attack and diminish by year of conservative Governments , and where the Bill reverse some of the bad excess of those government ' policy , that must be protect and strengthen in the long term . Westminster can not guarantee that for the people in Scotland , so I have table new clause 77 , which would amend the Scotland Act 1998 to devolve employment and industrial relation to the Scottish Parliament . back in 2014 , all unionist party , include the Labour party , promise maximum devolution for Scotland , as display on the front page of a national newspaper day before the independence referendum , in which Scotland vote no . this Labour Government have fail to devolve a single power to Holyrood since come to power in July — not a single one — despite the Scottish Parliament vote for employment right to be devolve . in November , the STUC call on the UK Government to " end the excuse and devolve power over taxation , migration and , importantly , employment law from Westminster to Holyrood . " moreover , Scottish Labour ' s 2021 election manifesto state : " we support further devolution of power to Holyrood include borrowing and employment right " . here be a question for Scottish Labour MPs : will they respect the wish of the Scottish Parliament ? indicate dissent . the hon . member shake her head , but I be speak to Scottish Labour MPs . I care about the people of Scotland . I care about the people of Scotland and what they say . will Scottish Labour mps listen to trade union and deliver on the promise make by their party by support the new clause , or will they continue to follow instruction hand to they from no . 10 ? silence . I think so . they be too scared to stand up for the people of Scotland . the hon . Gentleman say that he be a big supporter of worker ’ right . would he like to comment on the fact that for every year of the last nine year that I be lead negotiator for local government worker in Scotland , they have to have consultative ballot for industrial action just to get a decent pay rise out of the Scottish Government ? do that really mean stand up for worker in Scotland ? I think I be ask a question of the Scottish Labour mp , only to be ask another question . the hon . Lady will be well aware that the Scottish Government have work collectively with both union and other body to ensure that the living wage in Scotland be high than in any other part of the UK . I remind she that it be Scottish Labour in November 2023 that vote with the SNP for employment right to be evolve through the Scottish Parliament . throughout its existence , when power be devolve to the Scottish Parliament , decision be take in the interest of the people of Scotland and outcome improve : publicly own rail and water , high per - head education and health spend , free prescription , free tuition , a more humane welfare system and a progressive taxation system . fair work practice be be deliver already by the SNP Scottish Government , such as support collective bargaining , achieve real living wage employer status and close the gender pay gap fast than anywhere in the rest of the UK . do the hon . Member agree that it be an absolute failure of collective bargaining for the Scottish Government to have walk away from the commitment they make in a deal with health service union two year ago on the reduction of the work week ? they be fail to go through with reduce the work week by half an hour as of 1 April 2025 . I listen to the hon . member with interest , but I suggest that she have that debate in the Scottish Parliament . after all , we be talk about the devolution of power here in the UK Parliament . a framework for collective bargaining in the adult care sector have be develop by the scottish care union — Unison , the GMB and Unite — along with the Scottish Government and care provider , with a scottish social care joint council propose . the scottish care union have intimate that the constitution , composition , remit and function of the scottish social care joint council be preferable and should assume the role of the Adult Social Care Negotiating Body for England . Scotland already have a 10 - year history of joint commitment to fair work , whereas England be only embark on that journey . furthermore , there be a need to extend sectoral bargaining to all sector of the economy , not just adult social care . measure such as create a single status of worker for all but the genuinely self - employ , strengthen protection for those with unfair contract and increase the minimum wage to at least the national living wage , and then in line with inflation , be all miss from the Bill . the SNP Scottish Government would support those measure if employment law be devolve , and they would be deliver if this Government respect the vote of the Scottish Parliament and the scottish Labour manifesto . just as the Bill should be the first stop rather than the terminus , devolution be a process , not an event . not only have devolution move at a glacial pace , but we live in the world ' s most asymmetrical political union , where each nation have differ devolve power . why be it that employment law be devolve in Northern Ireland but not in Scotland ? I want to see employment right strengthen continually rather than in a cycle of piecemeal progress when Labour be in power , only to be reverse when the Tories next get their turn . the gain for worker ’ right in the Bill must therefore be protect . that be why the SNP remain committed to advocate for , at a minimum , the urgent devolution of employment power . that be the good way , short of independence , of protect worker ' right in Scotland . I , too , refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I have be a proud member of Unite the Union for over 35 year , although many member may find that hard to believe give my youthful look . a member since you be five year old ! absolutely . I welcome the measure in the Bill , which I know will make a real difference to the life of work people and their family in Derby and across the UK . I will focus on how the Bill will , through Government amendment 163 , transform employee access to trade union , empower more employee to act as a collective so that they can secure well pay and condition . when I speak to business leader in small and large employer , they all say that their big asset be their people . the Conservatives can harp on about trade union as much as they want , but in practice the good solution be for employer to work with employee and trade union rep to create the good working condition for business and individual to succeed . I know about the importance of union membership from first - hand experience . when I leave school at the age of 16 and begin work as an engineering apprentice , I join the union on day two . I know how important that would be in support I and my colleague at work . much later on , when campaign to save Alstom in Derby last year , I see how hard Unite and other trade union fight to secure job at the Litchurch Lane facility . they stand up for work people in our local community when it matter most . however , employee can not access the benefit that union membership can bring if they do not know about the support offer by trade union in the first place . I congratulate my hon . friend on his youthful appearance . do he agree that , just as business be about the employee , trade union be about their membership and give individual member their right ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . this be about individual member come together to do what be right for themselves , for their trade union , and for the company and business that they work for . I welcome the Bill ' s introduction of a right of access for union to meet with worker . government amendment 163 expand union access agreement , so that union can communicate with worker digitally as well as by enter the workplace . I urge meaningful implementation of those digital access right to enable direct conversation between union and worker , as would take place during in - person meeting in the workplace . when we work together , we get more do . it be important that worker have access to union representative and know how join a union can support they in the workplace . I welcome the measure in the Bill to expand that access , which will far strengthen the right of work people in Derby and beyond . there be 5 , 310 business register in my constituency of South Northamptonshire . of those , 99 . 6 % — or specifically 5 , 245 — be small business . this Bill , among many of the Government ' s policy , be a calamity for those small business . not only be many of they rural , mean that they will be affect by the family farm tax and now by the removal of the sustainable farming incentive , but as the chair of the Federation of Small Businesses have say , these small and medium - sized enterprise will struggle to adapt to the 28 major change that the Bill make to employment law . first , it be the Government ' s job tax , then it be their cut to rate relief for hospitality business , and now they be smother sme with red tape . analysis publish by the Department for Business and Trade say that this will impose a cost on business in the low billion of pound per year , but that be not money that many of my small business can afford right now . this be why the opposition have call for small business to be exempt from the part of the Bill that would heap unsustainable cost on they . why do the Government seem to hate small business so much ? perhaps it be because the majority of the Cabinet have spend their career in the public sector and have zero understanding of what life be like for the many entrepreneur with sme across the UK , include in my constituency . we learn this week that , for the first time since record begin in 2012 , the number of company register at Companies House have fall . growth forecast have be downgrade and the number of vacancy have decline . all this be a result of the choice the Government have make and continue to make in this Bill . with all of this , the UK risk become a globally uncompetitive economy , particularly when other country such as the United States be slash regulation and unleash their business to grow their economy . the Opposition have table new clause 90 for exactly this reason . it would ensure that when the Secretary of State make regulation under part 4 of the Bill , he have to have regard to growth in the medium to long term . I join the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , in call on the Government to support new clause 89 and 90 to ensure that growth happen . our economy be already struggle under the weight of Labour ' s tax rise . why be the Government oppose our effort to ensure that they consider how burdensome regulation might impact on business ? a lot of people outside this place might feel that the answer to that question be that the trade union have fund Labour Members — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) , who be talk from a sedentary position , receive more than £ 27 , 000 from two union in the late year of declaration and do not think it appropriate in this debate even to mention that number , which may well have influence his thinking and lead to the dire outcome that my hon . friend be explain to the House . my right hon . friend make a powerful point , and I think all Labour Members must reflect on this because we need the public to understand truly why this legislation be go through . that the Government have see fit to table 87 of their own amendment at this stage alone be indicative of how uneasy they must feel about the Bill . we be even tell by the medium that the Treasury have warn the Deputy Prime Minister and the Secretary of State about the consequence for the economy of enact these law , yet they seem to have see fit to plough they through anyway . as per usual , Labour be pay lip service to growth while stick true to form with their socialist ideology . I be not bear in the 1970 but it appear that I be go to live through the equivalent in the year ahead , as Labour play Abba ' s 1976 hit " money , Money , Money " for its trade union paymaster . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be a proud trade unionist and a member of Unite the union . I have be support from across the labour movement with the clean money in politic , which I do not think conservative Members can say about themselves . for over a year , swedish Tesla worker have be on strike demand the basic right to collective bargaining . their struggle have inspire solidarity across industry . postal worker , painter , electrician , cleaner and dock worker have all launch secondary action in support . denmark ' s large trade union , 3F Transport , have also join the fight , prevent danish dock worker and driver from handle tesla shipment bind for Sweden . this level of solidarity be possible because swedish trade union be not shackle by restrictive law design to suppress collective action . unlike here in the UK , the legislative landscape in Sweden do not act against the interest of organise labour . almost 90 % of swedish worker be cover by collective agreement , and their labour law ensure that worker have the right to negotiate and defend their condition without undue interference . as a result , swedish trade union be more than a match for billionaire like Elon Musk . when Tesla refuse to sign a collective agreement , it be not just tesla worker who fight back — the entire trade union movement do . that be what real industrial democracy look like , and it be a powerful reminder of what british worker have be deny for too long by some of the most draconian anti - union legislation in the western world . while I welcome the repeal of the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 and much of the Trade Union Act 2016 , the fact remain that many of the bad Thatcher - era anti - union law be still in place . one of the most damaging be section 224 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 , which make secondary action unlawful . that ban on sympathy strike isolate worker , weaken their bargaining power and prolong dispute — all to the benefit of exploitative employer . that be why I have table new clause 31 to repeal that restriction and return power to work people . secondary action build the trade union movement as we know it . it help we secure the very right that we all benefit from today . but in an era of outsourcing and subcontracting , the ban be even more harmful than it be three decade ago . under current legislation , two worker perform the same job in the same workplace can not take industrial action together if one be directly employ and the other be outsource . employer exploit that loophole to divide worker . they shift responsibility through complex corporate structure , like what we be see at Coventry University in my constituency , and undermine union action by transfer work or hive off company . worker be even prevent from take action against parent company and supplier during dispute . in many way , secondary action be more essential than ever in the fight for fair pay and condition . Most european nation , include Denmark , Norway , Sweden , Belgium and the Netherlands , allow secondary action in some form . even those with restriction , such as Germany , France and Spain , stop short of impose an outright ban . labour ' s new deal for work people commit to repeal anti - union law and ensure that the UK ' s industrial action law comply with international obligation , include those under the International Labour Organisation and the european social charter . yet , as it stand , the Bill fail to deliver on that promise . international body have repeatedly condemn the UK ' s ban on secondary action . the European Committee of Social Rights and the ILO criticise the UK for that restriction most recently in 2023 after the P & O Ferries scandal , when 800 crew member be sack via video call and replace with agency worker . P & O know that it could get away with its disgraceful action because the law prevent other worker from strike in solidarity . I also support a number of amendment , include those table by my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) , such as new clause 61 , which would define employment status in law to end bogus self - employment . that be long overdue . for too long , employer have exploit gap in employment law to deny worker basic right . today , in our country , black and asian worker be disproportionately trap in precarious , low - pay job on bogus self - employment contract and deny statutory sick pay , holiday pay and protection from unfair dismissal . this two - tier system must end . every single worker deserve dignity and respect in the workplace , and by strengthen the Bill with these amendment , we would be take a step forward towards rebuild the power of the work class . I urge member across the House to stand on the right side of history and with the worker who keep this country run . I rise to speak again on the second day of Report stage to raise serious concern about the role of the Bill in facilitate unprecedented and dangerous access for trade union and the destruction of business , especially small business . I be glad the Minister be in his seat because yesterday he be challenge to name a small business that support the Bill , and 24 hour later he still can not . that be due not to the assiduity of the Minister , who I be sure be very assiduous , but to the simple fact that no small business support the Bill . will the hon . member give way ? I have hardly start . there can not possibly be anything that the hon . Gentleman want to intervene on I for just yet , but I will come to he . will the hon . member give way ? I will come to the hon . gentleman in a minute . yesterday , we hear that Labour clearly do not understand business , and today we get to what it really do understand : how it can support its trade union paymaster . government Members have give we a masterclass in how to support trade union . opposition Members have mention the 1970 . when I hear Government member speak , especially the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) , John Williams ' s score from " Jurassic Park " soar in my mind . but instead of Jeff Goldblum be savage by the dinosaur , the dinosaur that walk among we today will be savage our economy . we know that because the grow influence of the union , especially under the Bill , impose a heavy burden on corporation , stifle their ability to operate efficiently . as new business struggle to adapt to the new regulation , which the Government ' s very own impact assessment predict will cost £ 5 billion to implement , industry leader have publicly share their fear — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . we have have direction from the Chair on this matter , and I ask for your guidance . the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) have just be immensely critical of my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) , who have a history of stand up to defend his industry , and who have the courage to go on strike for 12 month . be he give notice that he would be name in this debate in that way ? I thank the hon . member , but he will be aware that that be not a point of order . as the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) have speak in the debate , it be perfectly in order to refer to the comment that he make . I return to what industry leader be say . they have share their fear about " union influence slow down decision making and hinder flexibility " , make it hard for company to remain competitive in global market . the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development ' s survey find that 79 % of organisation expect measure in the Employment Rights Bill to increase employment cost , place further strain on company that be have to grapple with increase to national insurance contribution and the rise national minimum wage . it be also likely that the measure will lead to " more strike , more disruption , and ultimately less productivity . " the hon . Member have refer a number of time to yesterday ' s proceeding . I be sad that he be not able to join we in the Division Lobby in vote against the amendment and in favour of the Bill , give that 73 % of his constituent in Farnham and Bordon support statutory sick pay for all worker from day one , and 67 % of his constituent support ban zero - hour contract . I be sorry that I be such a disappointment to the hon . Lady , but maybe she will get over it . the Bill be a roll - back of the most important change that we make when we be in government . it be no surprise that trade union have warmly embrace the legislation , over 200 amendment have be hastily shoehorn in to satisfy those who line the Government ' s pocket . perhaps it be purely coincidental that their wish have be grant , although one might wonder if the £ 5 . 6 million in donation the Labour party have receive since July have something to do with it . despite her proud membership of trade union , the last Labour Member to be call to speak , the hon . member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) , do not mention the more than £ 9 , 000 that she receive just in the last year , any more than the Labour Member who speak before she , the hon . member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) , mention the £ 24 , 000 plus that he receive . if Labour Members be truly proud of the way that they have be buy and pay for by the trade union , perhaps they would be open about how much they have receive . my right hon . friend make a key point . the change since yesterday have be interesting . yesterday , Labour Members be clear about declare that they be member of trade union , but only today have they suddenly realise that they should be declare the amount of money that they be receive directly . we hear yesterday from the shadow Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , that the legislation will allow union to bypass current rule , such as the rule on opt out of political donation . it must be fantastic news to the Labour party that it will now receive donation from worker by default , while business will face reduce notice period for strike , lead to even more disruption and economic damage . it be clear to I , and to the hundred of business that have pull their support for this Government , that this be not about protect employment right , but about consolidate union power . let we briefly look at some of the amendment . amendment 292 would require trade union to notify their member every year of their right to opt out of the political fund , and to obtain an annual opt - in . that change would ensure that union do not continue to fill labour ' s piggybank , and do not lock worker into automatic donation unless they actively opt out , which be as much a memory test as an admin task . unamended , clause 52 be not about transparency , but about keep the money flow to the political party with the most to gain . likewise , there be new clause and amendment that would have introduce transparency about the facility provide to trade union official , learn representative and equality representative . clause 54 and 56 be design to reduce transparency and accountability for union spending , allow union official to continue to benefit from facility time without proper scrutiny . will my hon . friend give way ? I will , for the last time . do my hon . friend agree that there be an interesting contrast in the Government ' s approach ? they be quite happy to put extra burden , responsibility and work on business of all size , yet when it come to any element of transparency or give member of trade union a real choice and understanding of where their money be go , they refuse to do that . the disparity — I will put it no strong than that — that my right hon . friend mention be stark . anybody watch these proceeding outside this House will absolutely agree that the Government want to put extra burden and regulation on business , but when it come to the trade union , transparency go out the window . why be that happen ? the answer be simple and clear : union have significant influence over this government . while the Deputy Prime Minister and her Cabinet colleague be push for these change , they do not even do what the measure state . key figure include the Chancellor , the Foreign Secretary and the Home Secretary be all guilty of hire under term that be odd with the new regulation . why would they introduce such a Bill when they themselves do not comply with it ? just like the more than 200 Labour mp who have take union donation , the Deputy Prime Minister have her own interest to consider . in her opening remark yesterday , she proudly disclose her union membership while conveniently admit to the £ 13 , 000 in union donation that she have take . it be clear that union influence be drive this legislation and most likely write the speech of Labour Members . the Government claim to be " pro - growth , pro - business and pro - worker " — [ Official Report , 21 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 46 . ] will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , because I have only a minute to go . perhaps it be time that the Government start listen to the real industry expert — those with practical experience in the sector — not just the trade union or those within the confine of Whitehall . the Conservatives have table key amendment to support growth , in new clause 89 and 90 ; international competitive duty , in new clause 87 ; and a limit on trade union influence on our business - drive economy . we need to ensure that the Government ' s policy do not burden our business , stifle innovation or lead to long - term economic harm . this Bill be not just poorly think - out , but a direct threat to the very fabric of our economy , and we must challenge it before it cause irreparable damage and crush our already crippled economy . I declare that I be a proud member of Unison , and I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I rise to speak in support of this groundbreake Employment Rights Bill , which will deliver pro - business and pro - worker reform . it will establish day one right , such as right to parental and bereavement leave for million of worker , and , crucially , will put more money into people ' s pocket — people who have have to endure low pay , job insecurity and a cost of living crisis create by 14 year of Tory rule . by strengthen protection for the lowest - pay worker and prevent exploitative employment practice , the Bill will give our work people the solid foundation on which to build a well quality of life . I will very briefly comment on a couple of topic debate yesterday , which be of personal relevance and relevant to my constituency . [ interruption . ] no ? I will skip it ; I do not think I would get away with that . this Bill will give a voice to work people by tackle the exclusion of independent union from workplace . if anyone have experience a management of change process — I once do , almost three week into join a new job , which be not fun — or workplace bullying , they will know the value of have a union back they . union be fab . I personally thank Unison , include the incredible trudie , for support I in my workplace . I have see the impact on those who have experience issue such as workplace bullying when they have not have the backing of a union , or a union in their workplace , and the stress and pressure on they be immense . indeed , they end up with the choice of either put up with it , leave — we then have worker turnover — or go off sick . I have know people to go off sick for quite a period of time , which be of course come at great cost to the company . when a person join a union , I have see the difference that backing and advocacy make to they , and the voice it give they . I have experience that as a normal person who once have a proper job , who be not a union activist but feel the value of union — I make that comment as an observer . the work that union do with management for the worker , to provide a workplace that be productive and secure , benefit company as well . it be not in the interest of union for business to fail ; everyone want a productive working environment . it would be remiss of I , however , to not acknowledge the concern that many small business owner have raise with I in recent month . they have be worried about this Bill , and I be grateful to many business that have reach out , include 1882 and Crossroads Care . I also want to thank Rachel Laver of the Chamber of Commerce for her excellent engagement , and for give a voice to local business — I have engage with they regularly . their concern be note , but I also note comment like that from Claire Costello , chief people and inclusion officer at the Co - op : " it ' s our belief that treat employee well — a key objective of this Bill — will promote productivity and generate the economic growth this country need . " that comment have be echo to I by local business . my business in Stoke - on - Trent South have my word that I will support they and their worker , and so will this Labour Government , by deliver improve productivity and growth . I be sad that the conservative party , which have table block amendment , do not want to support the work people of this country . this Bill ' s comprehensive set of impact assessment show that the Bill will have a positive impact on growth , with vital measure such as those on sick pay boost productivity and growth . protect the super - rich and rely on the myth of trickle - down economic have fail . it be time for trickle - up economic , and empower the work people of this country . as have be say many time yesterday and today , this Bill be deeply flawed . the Government have ignore the serious concern raise by business leader and independent economist . the Federation of Small Businesses have warn that these rush change will lead to job loss and deter employer from hire . the Institute of Directors find that 57 % of business leader will be less likely to hire because of the additional red tape impose by the Bill , and incredibly , the Government ' s own impact assessment fail to account for the Bill ' s real economic consequence , simply dismiss they as too hard to calculate . our new clause 90 would ensure that any regulation make under part 4 of the Bill must consider economic growth and international competitiveness , yet Labour have refuse to accept even that common - sense measure , prove that its approach be anti - growth at its core . prioritise the interest of trade union over economic stability make it hard for business to hire , grow and compete . it be no surprise that trade union have declare victory , as the Government have effectively hand they a blank cheque at the expense of business and worker alike . our amendment seek to restore fairness and balance . amendment 292 would require trade union to notify their member annually of their right to opt out of political fund contribution , ensure basic transparency and fairness . labour have hypocritically oppose this measure , despite previously support similar provision — during the passage of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 , it call automatic renewal a " subscription trap " . it seem that Labour only care about consumer choice when it do not impact on its own funding . the Government claim that remove this requirement be about cut red tape for union , while add lot of other red tape . in reality , the change strip away individual choice and accountability . as several of my hon . friend have say , trade union donate over £ 31 million to the Labour party between 2019 and 2024 . worker should have the right to make an informed choice each year about whether they want to contribute to political cause , rather than be automatically sign up without clear consent . Labour Members ' refusal to support the amendment reveal their true priority : protect their own financial interest , rather than stand up for transparency and worker ’ right . equally troubling be the expansion of trade union access to workplace , include digital access , under new clause 163 to 181 . despite 59 % of consultation respondent ask for more information or outright oppose the provision , the Government be press ahead regardless . these change hand union unchecked power , allow they to disrupt business without adequate safeguard . this Bill be not a modernisation of employment right ; it be a gift to the trade union at the expense of economic growth , job creation and business confidence . the Government have fail to strike the right balance , and we will continue to oppose this legislation . the impact assessment state that these measure could have a £ 5 billion impact , in addition to the £ 25 billion impact of the national insurance contribution change . do my hon . friend agree that what the impact assessment be miss be how much union fund the measure will drive directly to the Labour party as a result ? we ought to know how many hundred of thousand or million extra will come to the Labour party and to Labour member to make they support this growth - kill set of measure . it be a fascinating question , and we wait to hear the answer from Government Members . the Minister will tell we , we hope . indeed , perhaps the Minister will give we the answer . it be a pleasure to speak on this vital Bill as it pass its remain stage . I draw the House ' s attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be a proud member of the GMB and Community trade union . I be particularly pleased to speak in today ' s debate , because at one of my regular coffee morning on Saturday , a constituent of mine , Phil , tell I that I need to be do more to promote the benefit of this legislation . I be not sure that make a speech in the House of Commons meet Phil ' s expectation of promotion , but that conversation show I how important this legislation will be for work people in the Livingston constituency . the Government have rightly table amendment to the Bill to ensure that we deliver reform that be both pro - business and pro - worker . although conservative member have try to make much of the number of Government amendment , we remember that they be still the party of " Eff business " . with their opposition to the Bill , they show that they be " Eff worker " , too . what the amendment in fact demonstrate be the commitment of the Minister and the Government to listen and consult with a huge range of stakeholder on these issue , deliver the large upgrade in worker ’ right in many decade , but in a way that do right by business and good employer , ensure that they have the condition and environment they need to encourage investment and create job . this Bill will support the Government ' s critical mission for growth by increase productivity and put money back in people ' s pocket . it will deliver real - life improvement . can the hon . Gentleman set out five way that the Bill will improve productivity for business ? I will certainly come on to that , but one way be that the Bill will improve employment relation in workforce . in the past 14 year , we have see strike after strike because of the Conservatives ' approach to industrial relation . this change will improve productivity . the Bill will deliver real - life improvement that will be feel across Britain . key amendment that strengthen protection for the lowest - pay worker will ensure that all worker be treat with the decency they deserve . I welcome the vital step that the Bill take to extend protection , from exploitative zero - hour contract , to protect the voice of work people and strengthen statutory sick pay . as a member of the Business and Trade Committee , I have be able to scrutinise large business that choose to have zero - hour contract in place . in one evidence session , I hear from a company representative who reveal that employee can have their shift change at 24 hour ' notice , but not receive a single penny in compensation . the Bill be vital in address the challenge of financial planning face by family who be dependent on zero - hour contract . More than 1 million people on such contract will benefit from the guarantee hour policy . crucially , the Bill will ensure that government work with business , and will support employer who endeavour to comply with the law . with the Government amendment , it will also expand and strengthen the power of the fair work agency to bring civil proceeding against non - compliant employer at employment tribunal and to issue civil penalty , such as fine , to employer who breach pay - relate right and underpay their staff . give that the measure we be debate will give so much more power to the trade union , why have the hon . Gentleman not feel it incumbent on he to declare the thousand of pound that he have receive from trade union in the last year ? I thank the right hon . member for highlight that , because I be proud of the money that I receive from union . I be also proud of the fact that entrepreneur and business people donate to my campaign as well . the right hon . Member neglect to mention that when he bring the subject up . because I be both pro - business and pro - worker , I want to see growth in the economy . I be proud to receive donation from employer and people who have create wealth in this country , and I be also proud to receive donation from trade union member in my constituency . be the hon . member surprise , as I be , that there be so much support on these Benches for cap on political donation and great transparency about they ? we have mention that , of course , and it be certainly the case . I would love to see more transparency from the conservative party . it be right and proper that we reward the good business that contribute to good employment and sustainable growth , and it be right and proper that we take action against rogue employer that do not . with this Bill , the Government be also call it quit on the Tories ' scorch - earth approach to industrial relation , which lead to the bad strike chaos in decade . a new partnership of co - operation between trade union , employer and Government will ensure that we benefit from more co - operation and less disruption . north of the border , the Bill signal the large upgrade of worker ’ right in Scotland for a decade . it mark an end to exploitative zero - hour contract and fire and rehire practice . it will establish day one right to paternity , parental and bereavement leave for million of worker . however , it will also be beneficial for employer in Scotland , help to keep people in work and reduce recruitment cost by increase staff retention and level the play field on enforcement . it be both pro - worker and pro - business . member of the Scottish National party — include the hon . member for Dundee Central ( Chris Law ) today — have be call for the devolution of employment law for many year , but at no point have they explain how , beyond the banning of zero - hour contract , those power would be use to improve worker ' term and condition , to increase productivity and to accelerate economic growth . moreover , it might be nice if the SNP practise what it preach . during the Rutherglen by - election in 2023 , it choose to use zero - hour contract to employ people to deliver leaflet . in government , the same party have choose to include zero - hour contract in their definition of positive destination for school leaver . financial insecurity , anxiety and stress do not sound like my idea of a positive destination . the SNP say that it want to transform Scotland ' s economy for the well — to boost wage and productivity and grow key sector — but the fact be that Scotland have a high rate of zero - hour contract among people in employment than any other UK nation . how be people suppose to plan financially and improve their quality of life when they wake up on a Monday morning to find out via text message whether this week they will have eight shift , two shift , or no shift at all ? the reality be that the Scottish Government already have the power to introduce change to many worker ' term and condition through public procurement , but they choose not to do so . they would always rather blame someone else , and further constitutional grievance , than use the extensive power that they have to improve the life of ordinary scot . that be why the Bill be of such paramount importance . across the UK , acute benefit will be deliver to the people who need they the most , and in Scotland the Bill will right the wrong of the SNP ' s laissez - faire approach to regulate zero - hour contract . the tenure of this Labour Government be still measure in month and not year , but this Bill be yet another example of their deliver the new direction that the worker , business and people of Scotland and the wide United Kingdom deserve . as any sensible people would know , change to business regulation need to strike a careful balance to not deter both business investment and job creation , but I be afraid that this Bill get the balance wrong . labour ' s weaken of a variety of trade union law , particularly on the threshold for industrial action , be a recipe for disaster for both the public and business , particularly sme . as a London MP , I have hear this fairytale from those on the Labour Benches before , because London have too often be paralyse by strike under Mayor Sadiq Khan . infamously , the London Mayor promise our city " zero day of strike " in 2016 , but he have comprehensively break that promise . in Sadiq Khan ' s first two term , there be more than 135 strike , which be almost four time more than the number of strike under his predecessor — a record that Mayor Khan label a " disgrace " . if 35 strike be a disgrace , the 135 under Mayor Khan represent a catastrophic failure . my fear be that this Bill and the Labour Government ' s amendment will make strike even more common in London . do the hon . member recall how many strike there be under the last Conservative Government ? as we have see already — this be what I be talk about — the fairytale say that if we improve industrial relation and give trade union all the money they want , suddenly there will not be any strike . but what have happen in practice since the Labour Government come in ? trade union have be give all the money , and they be still threaten to go on strike . this Bill really do read like a militant trade union wish list . strike mandate have double from six to 12 month , allow trade union to impose roll strike for a whole year without ballot their member . turnout requirement have be abolish so that a minority can call strike , and the Government have remove the requirement for 50 % of member to vote and 40 % to support industrial action . the Bill reduce the notice for strike by four day and give employer less information , make strike even more damaging to business and disruptive to people ' s life . it also allow unreasonable pay facility time for trade union , make the taxpayer and company pay out even more for trade union representative at the same time that the Labour Government be raise everyone ' s taxis and cut public service . I guess that the hon . Gentleman have never be a member of a trade union or participate in an industrial ballot . member choose to go on strike once the ballot have finish ; no one force they to go on strike . when member give up a day ' s pay to go on strike , they do so because they be fight for improvement to their term and condition . he be make out as though they be somehow compel to strike . when member turn out for a strike , they do so because of their strength of feeling about the condition they face — nothing more . I would have some sympathy for that argument if the threshold for the percentage of worker vote for a strike be be maintain , but we be now clearly leave the door open for a minority of militant trade union member to go on strike and cause mass disruption . I will be honest and say that I have never be a member of a trade union , but my experience of trade union boss be that they live a life that I could never dream of as a working - class man , to be quite frank . as a work - class person from a working - class background , I learn at a very young age that trade union and the Labour party stop represent working - class people many year ago , and this Government be prove it yet again . give the hon . Gentleman ' s comment about a small number of militant trade unionist take industrial action if this Bill become law , it be worth note that over the last 10 year , a small and militant group of conservative party member have manage to choose successive Prime Ministers with few requirement than those apply to member of trade union when they vote to take industrial action in their workplace . do he think that be fair ? I thank the hon . Lady for her rather odd intervention . it have nothing to do with this Bill , but if more people have a chance to vote on issue such as who should be the Prime Minister today , I suspect that they would come to a completely different answer from the one they come to last July , because this Labour Government have break every single promise that they make at the election . I can not wait for the public to have the opportunity to vote out this shocking Labour Government , so I be all for people have more chance to do so . as I and other conservative Members have say already , this Bill be write by the trade union and for the trade union . why be the Government grant this wish list to the trade union ? the simple answer be that the Labour party will benefit from these proposal . as I be teach as a young man , " follow the money . " [ interruption . ] yes , I do not follow it by come into this place . over the past five year , the Labour party have receive more than £ 31 million in political donation from the union . this Bill will remove the requirement for trade union member to opt in to those contribution ; instead , they will have to opt out , which mean more will unknowingly contribute to political cause that they do not support . the Government ' s amendment will mean that trade union no long need to renew their political resolution every 10 year , and ultimately this will make it even easy for trade union to divert cash to political cause , include the Labour party . in short , this Bill mean more strike more often and more money for the Labour party , and strike will be grind business to a halt , shut down public service and close public transport system again . as I note in my speech , there be problem with the Bill . the hon . Member have mention the problem on public transport . do he recall that in 2022 the train union and the train operate company actually resolve their dispute , and do he regret that the Transport Minister at the time intervene to block that agreement to resolve the strike ? my experience as an MP be great frustration , particularly in outer London , about train company constantly go on strike , with a very small minority of train driver go on strike . what we see from this Government be a load of money go straight to those same union , without the productivity change that we would like to see , and no adaptation in the system . my personal opinion on some of these proposal be that it be increasingly likely that automation and a loss of job will be direct consequence of the rigid trade union law be force on to more business . I suspect that the only thing that will rise in this Parliament be unemployment . these strike be costly , disruptive and damaging to Britain . they ought to be a last resort , but this Government ' s proposal will take we back to the 1970 — before I be bear — when strike be a political tool for division , damage and disruption . this be yet more evidence that Labour be not on the side of work people or of serious economic growth , as its own impact assessment — even partial — tell we . londoner will not thank this government if this result in yet more disruptive and long roll strike that grind our city down even far than Mayor Khan have . work people will not thank this Government for empower their trade union to bring our country to a standstill , especially as we pick up the Bill as they fill their pocket . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — how much ? if the right hon . member listen , he will hear . from my entry , member will see that I be a proud member of the GMB and that my donation include those from entrepreneur and businesspeople alike who be collectively sick of the 14 year of the Conservative Government . I will take no lesson from that party , give its record over those 14 year , and none of the speech by Conservative Members have defend any achievement that be make in 14 year relate to this Bill or anything to do with our economy . that be the party of " Eff business " , of a striking NHS , of 60 % furlough settlement for Manchester worker , of cash for covid contract , of inflation high , of Liz Truss , of the mini - Budget disaster , of zero growth , of the collapse of infrastructure , of public spending power disappear , and of the state of our road and of our prospect . it be for this reason that my entry include a combination of GMB membership , give the member and the worker that we represent , and of the entrepreneur who want rid of that lot over there . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make some progress . the right hon . Gentleman have say plenty already , and he come in only halfway through the debate . I be proud to stand on the labour side of the House as someone who have found a business , run business for other and run my own business . fifteen year ago , I make a commitment to be the voice of experience for good small business in the proud Labour movement that we now have in government , not least to challenge the claim of the Conservatives that they alone represent business interest . I be proudly pro - business and pro - worker , just as this Government be . fix the foundation of our economy mean fix the foundation of our employment . just as the Government be strengthen our economic base , they be now lay down strong employment foundation . run a business be hard work . it require an initial leap of faith , the courage to embrace risk , the ability to adjust , the resilience to overcome failure and the perseverance to celebrate success . the role of government be to improve life and live for everyone in this country . the role of good employment be exactly the same . small business be at the heart of this effort . that be why the Government be right to focus on skill , value for money with public spending , open up public sector commission to sme and challenger company , and , crucially , the Bill make employment a more positive , rewarding experience . insecure work lead to insecure living , and neither will improve life in Britain . we should highlight and support those employer who be already lead the way . much of this legislation simply catch up to their high standard . the weight of responsibility that come with create somebody else ' s payslip can not be overstate . it be humble , sometimes worry and never easy . it require teamwork and the skill of other , but also leadership — sometimes lonely leadership . it mean shoulder risk and share reward . that be why the Government ' s ambition for growth be the right one . the focus must be on net growth , lock in certainty for those in work by uphold right for the many , while foster new opportunity to expand our economy . I want to salute those business and entrepreneur for whom much of this legislation emphasise the good practice they already uphold . in Bury , business such as the Lamppost Caf é , where — a declaration of interest , Madam Deputy Speaker — my daughter work part time , Life Store in Ramsbottom , Wax and Beans record and coffee shop in Bury , Bloom , Avoira , MSL Solution Providers , Ernill ' s Bakery , Wallwork Aerospace Heat Treatment , and hargreave . these business , often family run , be the backbone of Bury , and so they build the backbone of Britain ; root in their community ; provide stability , pride and good honest work for an honest day ' s pay . many stand ready to do more to grow , invest and create more opportunity . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way . could he tell we which of that fine list of business have say that they support the Bill ? I have have conversation with the vast majority of they . they support the general emphasis — [ interruption . ] actually , if the right hon . Gentleman have be listen , he will know that the argument I be make be that on much of the propose legislation — give right on day one , be fair minded , make work pay — they be already do that . the point I be make — [ interruption . ] I have just name several . the most recent conversation I have be with MSL Solution Providers . its challenge and argument be around R & D tax credit , an argument I will make in due course . but the Conservatives ’ claim of be the voice of small business and entrepreneurship be misguide , misrepresent and , frankly , out of date . once we have lay the new employment foundation , we must support they in build their business far . in particular , for some that mean ensure that AI enhance and expand prospect and prosperity in the employment market and the wide economy . lastly , I be proud to highlight my support for extend bereavement leave to those who experience a miscarriage — a compassionate and essential measure that I proudly support alongside my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) . the Bill be not just about a legislative process ; it be about our value . it be about recognise that a thrive economy and a fair society must go hand in hand with tackle our inequality . it be about ensure that whether employer or employee , the foundation on which our employment be build ensure strength for all . I rise as a former member of a trade union , and the harsh lesson I learn then be what concern I about this Bill . as a low - pay journalist on a local paper , I have hope that the union would go in to bat for I . instead , it be more interested in cuban socialism and collective bargaining , more concerned about traduce Mrs Thatcher ' s legacy than the tribulation of a junior reporter , more interested in fund the Labour party than support I and my newsroom colleague . that be why I be back amendment such as amendment 292 , which seek to defuse what have be call a subscription trap , where inertia be use to allow political donation take from member to tick up year in , year out . be this the clean money of which the hon . member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) speak ? in the Business and Trade Committee we have hear that good relation be possible between employer and trade union . of course they be — not all union rep be agitator , any more than all boss be grasp exploiter of the worker . but strip out exist protection , as this Bill do , risk tilt the law too far in favour of the union , make strike more frequent and more damaging thank to , for example , low notice period . we know that the union be already restive ; just ask the Secretary of State for Scotland , unable to attend an event with , ironically , the Scottish Confederation of British Industry in his own office because he would not cross a picket line , and he have have to cancel at least one other event as the picket strike on . if a Cabinet Minister be already at the union ' mercy , what chance do the general public have ? we have hear about positive trade union benefit , but it be not all sunlit upland . one rail union refuse to let boss use email for rota , insist on fax machine — I imagine I be one of the few member who remember those . another left passenger inconvenience when it order member not to use a footbridge as it have a skim of snow on it no thick than the icing on a cake . they must be lick their lip at clause that remove previous threshold for strike action such as the 50 % turnout requirement and the 40 % support requirement . I think the public will support amendment that would keep exist benchmark as modest guardrail , not to crack down on union but to limit the damage that hothead might inflict . this skimpy Bill , cobble together with indecent haste to meet labour ' s " first 100 day " deadline , bear all the hallmark of a thank you note from Labour to its union backer . if it pass , the union be go to party like it ' s 1979 . however , Labour Members pocket supposedly pristine union donation should have a care , because that 1979 winter of discontent see the public lose patience with a Labour Prime Minister capture by the union . history do not repeat precisely , but this do look awfully familiar . this afternoon I want to talk about a point that I think many of we across the House would agree on : employment right be quite useless without any sort of enforcement mechanism . I should first mention that I be a member of the Community union and the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers , and I refer everyone to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . on enforcement , I be very pleased with clause 122 increase the time for bring employment tribunal claim from three to six month . it be a result of extensive campaigning by Pregnant then screw and other organisation include the National AIDS Trust . they be very aware on behalf of their member of something I use to see regularly as a solicitor : a lot of people who have be very badly treat in their employment be so traumatised that they can not come forward and make their claim within the three - month time limit . in addition , that reduce the potential time available for negotiation between former employee and their former employer , which be not in the good interest of either employee or employer . it be therefore really good news for both party that we will have this increase in the amount of time available to bring those claim . the other measure that I be particularly delighted about in the Bill be the creation of the Fair Work Agency . we absolutely need there to be accountability for employer that be not pay the national minimum wage . they be few and far between , and those that be not do pay it need to be properly monitor and subject to enforcement , in order to create a fair playing field for all company . I be sure that Opposition Members would completely agree that the national minimum wage be a fundamental part of our society and that everyone should be pay it . the other matter I want to draw attention to be the Adult Social Care Negotiating Body . in my constituency , significant number of people need adult social care , and have a stable workforce be important in deliver that . lastly , I want to speak about the attitude towards trade union that we have hear from Opposition Members today . when I work as a solicitor advise trade union member some time ago , it be clear to I both that people really need the advice they be get via their trade union , and that the trade union would not continue to back their member with that advice if they do not have a claim with a reasonable prospect of success . that mean that dispute could be settle , which be in the good interest of both the employer and employee . I think the hon . Lady possibly misrepresent the intent of Opposition Members . we be not anti - trade union ; we be anti the drafting of this Bill . I think it be important to make a clear distinction between the two . I thank the hon . Lady for her point , but I think it be a very difficult distinction to make : that they be pro - trade union but anti thing that make it easy for trade union to effectively represent worker . to return to my point , access to trade union mean access to good - quality advice , quick resolution of dispute and a reduction in unrepresented litigant in person , which , in my experience , can make life genuinely difficult for well - mean employer . every single thing in this Bill will be good for worker , but it will also be good for employer , and I will be very pleased to vote for it later today . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and declare my Unison membership , although I be also an ex - solicitor . I be go to address the Government amendment relate to enforcement , rather than trade union right . we have a large demand for social care in Cornwall , as be the case in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) . our population tend to an old demographic and , with many people leave friend and family to retire to Cornwall , the availability of care be very important . our social care system be close to breaking point due to the combination of year of underfunding and a fragmented privatised system . skilled care worker be chronically underpaid for what they do , often at minimum wage , and we struggle to get and retain care worker . the Bill contain many provision that will help : strengthen sick pay ; parental leave ; protection from unfair dismissal from day one ; improved family - friendly right and flexible working ; measure to tackle zero - hour contract , include for agency worker and worker at umbrella company , as well as for direct employee ; and strengthen redundancy right . the Bill also specifically give social care worker respect and recognition through a fair pay agreement , and reinstate the School Support Staff Negotiating Body . it will be a game changer for those low - pay worker — mostly woman — who work in care and school . the hon . Lady will be aware that there be a debate on the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill next week , where we will debate whether health and social care provider should be exclude from national insurance contribution . would she care to comment on whether Labour Members will support that amendment make in the House of Lords ? local government funding will , of course , be increase to take that into account , and fund for adult social care be rise and will rise far in the next three - year settlement under this Government . to return to my speech , in Cornwall we have see the rise of care worker come from other country to work on sponsorship visa scheme . these worker be often in a financially precarious situation , which increase their dependency . some have be charge by their employer for induction , travel or training ; in some case , worker receive a salary below the minimum wage to make up the cost of their flight to the UK . I refer colleague to my entry on the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech about the situation in her county . do she agree that this be a national problem that affect all our constituency ? it be certainly the case in Berkshire , and in read in particular , that we need well pay for care worker and more understanding about the pressure they face in their very valuable work . I agree with my hon . friend . this matter affect the entire country . Unison , for example , have a campaign about migrant care worker , so , yes , this be a national issue . in Cornwall , those care worker be often give the early morning and late evening shift with no flexibility . some sit on bench , strand in Cornish village that bus do not pass through , wait from their morning shift to their first evening shift . many health and social care worker on sponsorship visa be afraid to raise concern about their employment and living condition for fear of lose their employer ' s sponsorship . employer in turn can be aware of that , and some even use it as an explicit threat . that bring I to the enforcement provision in the Bill . enforcement of statutory pay and employment right be poor in the social care sector . pay enforcement rely on individual worker report breach . his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs investigate few than 1 % of care provider each year . international worker and those from minority ethnic background be particularly vulnerable . for individual right to become a reality , a collective voice in the workplace and effective enforcement be key . the Law Society report that the backlog in employment tribunal case stand at 44 , 000 , which be 18 % high than it be in 2023 . this backlog need clearing and investment need to be make in employment tribunal . the new Fair Work Agency will have a crucial role to play in reduce the burden on the employment tribunal system by provide a focal point for advice on enforcement under Government amendment 208 , in enable the disclosure of information under Government amendment 212 and in take on some of those enforcement power under Government new clause 57 and 58 on behalf of those worker . those power could really help low - pay or migrant worker who do not have access to fund or to union representation to enforce their right , or who fear dismissal if they take step in that direction . government amendment 249 will allow the Fair Work Agency to investigate and combat fraud and exploitative employer , thereby tackle the kind of modern slavery of international worker in the care industry that we have see recently . government new clause 60 will also give the Fair Work Agency the power to recover the cost of enforcement , which would help with the funding of the system . however , real investment will need to be make into enforcement for the new power to have tooth , with a timeline , resource and fast - track procedure for the new Fair Work Agency . I welcome confirmation of the Government ' s commitment in this area . may I give member a brief reminder that we be today talk to the new clause and amendment on trade union , industrial action , enforcement of labour market legislation , and miscellaneous and general provision ? I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I wish to deal with new clause 8 and 9 , which relate to recognition of the POA ' s right to strike . I therefore also declare that I be an honorary life member of the POA . the word " honorary " mean that there be no financial relationship , and I be assure that I would not even get a south - face cell or an extra pillow . new clause 8 and 9 try to restore the fundamental right of prison officer to take industrial action in its various form . the union have exist for 90 year and , although organise as a trade union , it have never take any form of industrial action that have endanger the prisoner the officer care for , other staff or the wide community . through all of its long history , there be an industrial relation climate in which negotiation take place and dispute be resolve . then in 1994 , the Conservative Government , under the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 , make it a crime to induce any prison officer to take strike action , or even to work to rule . the trade union be tell very clearly that that would be a criminal act and any trade union officer organise action , even a work to rule , could be prosecute . what the Government then do — this be why people become extremely cynical at the time — be to plan increase in the pension age , make extensive salary cut and cut staff number . there be no way the union could fight back in any form to protect its member . some hon . member who be about at the time may recall that , in 2019 , the POA face high six - figure fine in the High Court . when it take action on health and safety ground by convene meeting of member , it be threaten with legal action and the union leader be threaten with imprisonment . ironically , it would have be interesting to ask who would lock they up — but that be another question altogether . when the police have their right to strike take away , it be almost like a covenant and they be give very specific commitment around how they would be protect on pay , pension and condition of work . that be never offer to the POA and there be never any negotiation like that , where it would at least be give some security in return for the loss of that right . that be never give . the POA take the Government to the European Court of Human Rights in 2024 and the case be accept . the Court urge the Government to engage with the union in good faith over what remedy would be available . the then Government refuse to engage and the current Government be still not engage , so one of the reason for table the new clause be to urge the Government to start engage with the union around that particular issue . all the union be ask for be that its member be treat like any other worker and for the Government to engage . the right to strike in Scotland be restore 10 year ago and there have be no strike action since . that have create an industrial relation climate that be conducive to work together — not to enter into conflict but to negotiate problem out . I think that that be a result of both side know that there be the alternative , if necessary , of take part in industrial action . as most people know , industrial action in public service be often not a strike ; it be usually a work to rule to start off negotiation . I have be a member of a trade union for 50 year ; I have be a trade union officer , a lay official and so on . every union that I have know , where there be any form of industrial action that in any way involve a public service , always put in place negotiate arrangement to protect the people that they be serve — that be not just life and limb protection , but often ensure a standard of service that be still acceptable to people . I therefore urge the Minister to get back round the table with the POA . there be a debate in Committee on this matter , which anger people and anger I . I have go over the debate . it show a shameful disrespect for prison officer and an ignorance of the role that they play and the work environment that they work in . there be reference to screw and guard and thing like that , and about how , somehow , if the right be restore , the union would allow prisoner to run amok and put the whole community at risk . that be never the case — it never have be and never would be . there be a lack of understanding about what those worker put up with . as many hon . member know , there be overcrowd . Prison officer deal with prisoner with huge mental health issue , drug problem and health problem overall . there be record level of violence in prison and prison officer be injure almost daily as a result of assault . I have to say that the disrespect demonstrate in the Committee be part and parcel of the demoralisation of even more of our worker in those key role . I therefore ask the Minister to re - engage , to get back round the negotiating table and to recognise that the issue will not go away . these member want their basic trade union right back and , if necessary , they will go back before the European Court . I believe they will win and that we will , unnecessarily , go through another period in which the demoralisation of worker continue because of people ' s lack of respect for their basic trade union right . we be suffer real problem in recruitment and retention , so I urge the government just to take that one step back to the negotiating table with the POA . I rise in support of Government new clause 57 and 58 . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my proud trade union membership . I ask the opposition to consider their comment today in what have prove to be a very ideologically drive debate on their part . I feel somewhat as if I have be transport back in time to a previous reform Labour Government ' s last upgrade to employment right — the minimum wage debate . this afternoon ' s fearmongere about productivity , growth and unemployment be reminiscent of it . we also have see some crossover in the personnel who be part of the conservative opposition . the then shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , say that the minimum wage would " negatively affect … not hundred of thousand but million of people . " — [ Official Report , 4 July 2017 ; Vol . 297 , c . 526 . ] unless the opposition have since develop a policy to repeal the national minimum wage — let ' s face it , under their current leadership anything be possible — I must tell they that progress be come . I be talk about work that pay , dignity and job security . I invite they to get on board with the upgrade to right at work , rather than spend the come decade pretend that they be on board in the first place . my hon . friend will remember that in 2017 , when the Conservatives announce the employment Bill that be never produce , they say that it would represent the big upgrade of worker ’ right by any Conservative Government ever . would she care to speculate on why they set their ambition so low ? some comment from Opposition Members today have make it very clear to the public what the opposition think about people ' s right at work . the hon . Member be make a passionate and inspiring speech about the national minimum wage . be she aware that just last year , the leader of the Scottish Labour party admit that his family business be not pay member of staff the living wage ? do she think that be rank hypocrisy ? I think that everyone should be on board with the national minimum wage and the living wage . I hope that we can encourage all member of all party to get on board . I be very pleased to hear that commitment and concern from the Reform party . it be unexpected , but I respect it . on Second Reading , I welcome this legislation as a central tenet of this Government ' s policy of put work people at the heart of our economy and make work pay . I be delighted to see the Bill return to the Chamber , and I pay tribute to those who serve on the Public Bill Committee . the Bill modernise the UK ' s outdated employment law , bring in more than 30 much - need and welcome reform , include : day one right of employment , ban exploitative zero - hour contract , abolish fire and rehire , establish bereavement leave , increase protection from sexual harassment , introduce equality menopause action plan , strengthen right for pregnant worker and establish the Fair Work Agency . I be pleased that , during the scrutiny process , the Government have table amendment to strengthen protection for low - pay worker , include those relate to statutory sick pay . in real term , 1 million people on zero - hour contract will benefit from the guarantee hour policy . nine million people who have be with their employer for less than two year will benefit from day - one right relate to the unfair dismissal policy . because of the Fair Work Agency , holiday pay right will be enforce for the very first time . the measure before we strengthen the Fair Work Agency . new clause 57 will enable it to bring proceeding against a non - compliant employer in an employment tribunal , in place of the worker . new clause 58 enable the provision of legal advice or representation for those who have become a party to civil proceeding relate to employment or trade union law . although the vast majority of employer across the country , include hundred in Clwyd East , will certainly obey the law , there be still those that sadly do not . a Citizens Advice report state that higher - pay worker be 50 % more likely than lower - pay individual to bring an employment tribunal claim , despite the fact that lower - pay individual be more likely to have their right violate . as Unison point out , leave the burden of challenge workplace injustice to individual worker seek redress at tribunal compound inequality of power in the UK labour market . the Low Pay Commission figure highlight key reason to implement these important measure . we know , for instance , that 20 % of worker be pay less than minimum wage in 2023 , and that nearly 1 million worker do not get any holiday pay . the agency will bring together exist state enforcement function , and will be a single place to which worker and employer can turn for help . I be pleased that the agency will aim to resolve issue upstream by support employer that want to comply . I understand from evidence gather by the Bill Committee that there be considerable support for a single enforcement body in place of what be currently quite a fractured system . on accountability , the Bill require an annual report on the Fair Work Agency ' s enforcement action , and will allow Parliament to monitor progress in protect worker ’ right . I be encourage to hear that , to produce its strategy , the Fair Work Agency will consult an advisory board make up of trade union , business and independent expert . it be vital that we continue our collaborative approach in develop employment legislation and policy that be pro - business , pro - worker and , ultimately , pro - growth . I welcome the new clause and the Bill as a whole . it be an important part of the Government ' s strategy to move our economy forward , improve work security and ensure great productivity . in speak in support of the Bill , I declare that I be a Unison member . the Bill and the Government amendment to it will deliver real - life improvement for work people across my constituency and across Scotland . key amendment will strengthen protection for the lowest - pay worker in my constituency , extend protection from exploitative zero - hour contract , boost the voice of work people in the workplace , strengthen statutory sick pay to 80 % from the first day of sickness , extend sick pay to 1 . 3 million of the low earner across the country , and provide great protection from unfair dismissal , with 9 million people benefit from day one protection . that be the real change that we promise to deliver for real people — public service worker in West Dunbartonshire , such as frontline staff in the service industry , essential utility , social care , transport or health . the day of exploitation be now over . the Labour party be do what we do well and will always do : protect work people , promote decent pay and work , and deliver meaningful change for so many . we be put power in the hand of work people . the Government ' s commitment to grow the economy will be build on rebalancing right at work and raise living standard in every part of this country ; the two be interweave . the Government ' s amendment will ensure just that by boost the enforcement of right and give the new Fair Work Agency the power to bring civil proceeding against non - compliant employer that seek to underpay staff . in 2023 , one in five worker be pay less than the minimum wage . that will stop . almost 1 million worker in this country do not receive holiday pay in 2023 . that will stop . the amendment will level the play field . they include measure on digital access to employment agreement , allow independent union to apply for recognition and stop the practice of employer lock - out , a 20 - work - day window for employer and union to negotiate access , and a new right for union to access the workplace , which could be transformative as it give worker a fair voice to improve their pay and condition . it be time to turn the page on the combative and unproductive approach adopt by the previous Government , and it be time to modernise the industrial relation framework . the Bill and the amendment support a much - need reset of industrial relation across Great Britain . this Government have a clear mandate to deliver real change that work people in my constituency of West Dunbartonshire can see and feel . that change can not come soon enough . the Employment Rights Bill be the crucial first step on that path . it be the big uplift in worker ’ right in a generation , and I be proud to vote for it and support it today . I be grateful to be call twice on Report , and as be customary , I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my membership of Unite . I be also the chair of the GMB parliamentary group . I start with comment that I have not plan to make at the beginning of this debate . much have be hear about register of interest . as the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , who be in his place , say at the end of the Bill ' s Committee , Labour Members have be assiduous in draw attention to their membership of trade union and their declaration in register of interest , but I believe that the hon . member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) be the first Conservative Member to draw attention to his own donation without be challenge first . much of the tone of this debate have focus not on the substance of the Bill , but on ascribed motivation , which I believe have be demean to the standard and courtesy expect in this House . there be much to welcome in the Government amendment . I wish to concentrate my remark on new clause 40 and new schedule 2 . on political fund ballot , the 10 - year requirement date to the Trade Union Act 1984 . the requirement do not apply to any political fund that may be maintain by employer ' association ; nor do a successful ballot in any way infringe on a trade union member ' s right to withdraw payment from the political fund at any time , so I think we can be confident about that policy ' s intention : it be to tie up trade union time and resource , and in that respect it be successful . these ballot be a massive abstraction of resource , which get in the way of trade union ' and trade union member ' core business of represent people at work . in 40 year , not one union member have vote to discontinue a political fund . trade union be democratic organisation . if there be discontent in a union over political fund expenditure , any member be entitle to inspect the account , and that expenditure can be stop in whole or in part through exist democratic structure . there be , I think , a contradiction when this House , a representative democratic institution , may seek to instruct other organisation to make decision by referendum . to those who have suggest that trade union political expenditure be somehow illegitimate , I would just like to remind member that trade union political fund expenditure be not synonymous with party political donation . in fact , many important campaign that have win cross - party support in this place be make possible only because of trade union political fund expenditure . I draw member ' attention to one such campaign , which I be proud to be associate with . the Protect the Protectors campaign start with the campaign work of GMB and Unison member in the ambulance service and result in the assault on Emergency Workers ( Offences ) Act 2018 . if the measure that have be put forward at different stage in this process be successful in restrict that political fund activity , it would be hard to deliver that legislative change in this place on behalf of work people . much have be say in the debate and I do not wish to duplicate it , but I wish to say a few word about the situation at Amazon in Coventry . much trade union work in the private sector in recent year have be focus on the warehousing and logistic sector , where a focus of trade union activity have be the increasingly intensive workload , worker ’ employment be terminate on the basis of unclear and unaccountable target setting , and high rate of musculoskeletal injury , which have contribute to a high rate of people be out of work in the wide economy . when the GMB , in response to approach from its member , initially contact Amazon to seek voluntary recognition at that site in December 2022 , the company report that there be 1 , 400 people work at the site . the company refuse to engage meaningfully with the union or attend talk at ACAS to resolve the situation . as have be say , in the space of just a few month , the number of people at the site be increase dramatically by 93 % . some of they be temporary worker transfer from other site . it have be report that other be new worker on student visa who be worried about the potential implication for their study and immigration status if union recognition be vote for . as a consequence of that increase , the union could still meet the 10 % membership threshold , but could not meet the requirement of 40 % of the bargaining group be likely to support recognition . new schedule 2 remedy that flaw by freeze the bargaining unit from the start of the application . similarly , the schedule bar the use of unfair practice from the start of that process . that will address a loophole in the statutory code of practice that have be exploit to the full in Coventry . the union describe a culture of fear bear out of intimidatory tactic and a lack of equality of access , contrary to the principle that this House have already endorse . the recognition ballot fail , as we have hear , by just 29 vote . I pay tribute to the GMB officer and , above all , the member who lead the campaign . they come so close in the face of a concerted union - bust campaign . as one Amazon worker say , " I don ' t want Jeff Bezos ' s boat ; I definitely don ' t want his rocket — I just want to live . " the Opposition argue in Committee that we should not legislate in response to individual case , but I disagree . once it have be prove that a system can be exploit , more will follow . Amazon ' s action at Coventry be clearly contrary to the intention of the House of Commons when it establish the statutory recognition regime 26 year ago . freeze the bargaining unit be incredibly important , as be the extension of the code of practice . I wish that in the time available I could say more about the trade union right of access , which build upon successful international system , particularly in Australia where , over the last 20 year , it have become an accepted and constructive part of their industrial relation framework , and have survive and , indeed , be enhance throughout multiple change of govern party . the digital right of access include in the amendment be important , particularly for those employer who do not have a traditional physical workplace . it be important that the digital right of access do not become the default when application be make , and I be sure that Ministers will bear that in mind as the measure be implement . to close my remark in what may be the last debate that Back Benchers can contribute to on this legislation , let I say that part of the reason we come to this place be to provide more freedom , more comfort at time of hardship and more protection against abuse to our constituent . that be as true at work as it be everywhere else . of course , there will always be other cause , measure and change that we individually would like to see , but this Bill and the change and improvement we will make to it tonight be the reason our constituent send we to this place . it have be say that this legislation represent the big advance in worker ’ right in a generation . I think it be perhaps the big step forward since the Trade Disputes Act 1906 . what we will do tonight be truly historic , and I will be proud to join the Lobby to vote it through . I refer member to my declaration of interest , which clearly state my positive relationship with the trade union movement . I be a member of Community and the GMB , and that be where I want to begin my contribution . my father , a proud USDAW member , recruit I to his union the very first day that I have a proper job , aged 16 , draw a real wage with a pay packet and a pay slip . I have step into the grow - up world , and join a union be part of my graduation . I be bring up to believe that a union have our back and can help with issue like unfair dismissal , discrimination , harassment and bullying . as an MP , when I be approach by a constituent with a problem at work , my first question be , " be you a member of a trade union ? " in Bassetlaw , good company and organisation like Cargill , Schutz , Cinch Connectors , Cerealto , Autism East Midlands and Bassetlaw hospital have good partnership with union like the GMB , and I welcome that . as a small business woman , I serve for 10 year on the national executive of the long ago merge Manufacturing , Science and Finance union . that be where I reinforce my value and belief that a trade union be a force for good in the workplace , where partnership work with the employer serve to increase productivity , pride and share understanding . such partnership mean that many of the key employment measure in the Employment Rights Bill have already be adopt by many major employer , who regard good employee relation as a key element for their competitive success in the market in which they operate . when people go to work but have no certainty about the hour that they will work or what their weekly income will be , it be unfair . when they go to work with the fear that they may be sack tomorrow for no reason , it be unfair . when they be pay below the minimum wage for a day ' s work , it be unfair . and when they be ill and face three day without pay , it be unfair . this Bill be about put fairness back into work and put pride into our workplace . we need to end the zero - hour contract and the trickery of fire and rehire ; deliver day one protection from unfair dismissal ; and extend right to sick pay to 1 . 3 million people . I be also a member of a union , the British Medical Association . I have find that union to be useful to I as it have represent I in the past , so I can see the benefit of union . I be concern , however , that the measure that the hon . Lady be talk about in relation to day one sick pay , for example , could make it more difficult for those with disability to get a job , particularly with the change to zero - hour contract as well . I talk to a local businessman in my constituency about a gentleman he employ who have a disability , who come and go because his disability make it difficult for he to work for long period of time , but he say that he simply will not be able to continue to employ he once the legislation come into force . that be what good , strong trade union partnership be about : ensure that a worker have the intervention that they need in order to be able to work . I will be support the benefit Bill that we will be introduce in the future because that will ensure that workplace be open and accessible to people with disability . it be important that people have the right to work and the capacity to work when they need to . the Bill be back by my constituent , who want to work hard but also want fairness in the workplace . tonight , I will be vote for strengthen right at work for million of british people . we can all stand up and be count to support our constituent who deserve fairness and justice at work . to the Reform mp who be no long in the Chamber , support the status quo be a betrayal for million of british worker . we all have constituent who need well workplace right and this be our chance to deliver change . I be a member of Unite the union , but I rise to make my remark from the perspective of a business owner and employer , in response to comment make by Conservative Members , who have now wander off , about small and medium - sized business . these be personal comment and I will give my personal perspective , but I know many business , large and small , that share this point of view . before come to this place , I be run business of various shape and size for well over 20 year . I do my mba at Manchester Business School , I have start and lead several business , and I have serve on the board of many other , so I have be about a bit . throughout that time , it be always clear in my mind that whatever the business , the critical success factor be always the skill , drive and quality of the people that the business employ or contract . to succeed , any business must attract the good possible people . that be why I have always feel that the selection and recruitment process be my key role in any organisation that I lead . I will always argue that great business , by which I mean those with sustained success , will always be good employer . when I look at the measure in this Bill , all I see be the thing that good employer be already do . we know that support for employee when they have child pay off in the long term . we know that give employee job security increase their commitment and productivity . we support our people when they be sick , and we know that take holiday be vital to maintain performance . we do not unfairly dismiss , whether someone have be with we for one day or for many year . we have rigorous recruitment process , and we make it clear that employee must show they meet requirement for a job during the probationary period . we pay as well as we can , know that employee who feel value will deliver for our business . up until now , good employer have always feel the risk of be undercut by unscrupulous and short - term disruptor look to make a quick buck . this be a real and serious issue — I have experience it in business , and many other business owner have raise it with I . business do the right thing should not be disadvantaged , yet weak and outdated employment legislation have leave they expose . this Bill level the play field . good employer can keep on do what they do , know that their competitor can no long undercut they by , for instance , employ a majority of their staff on zero - hour contract , not give holiday pay , fire and rehire or just underpay . this Bill be good for good business and good for worker . it be good for growth and for society . it will put more money in people ' s pocket and deliver real , tangible benefit for work people , and I be very pleased to support it . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which include my membership of GMB , Unison and the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy . when I speak on Second Reading , I welcome the advancement that this Bill would make on statutory sick pay , maternity and paternity pay and protection around pregnancy , as well as its value of fairness . I support new clause 44 , 47 and 48 : it be only right that if someone have do a fair day ' s work and a business fail to pay they , the Secretary of State should have the authority to give notice of underpayment . no one in Britain should go home from an honest day ' s work out of pocket and worried about pay their bill . I also welcome the Secretary of State ' s intervention on impose financial penalty on business that make underpayment . I believe that poor practice in the workplace should be call out and that those responsible should be hold accountable . however , we also need an adequately resource fair work agency , so I support new clause 82 , table by the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) . the agency should be agile enough to tackle issue upstream by support business that want to comply with the law , as well as have enough resource to tackle meaningfully non - compliant business . on the Business and Trade Committee , we hear from several business , some of which be great employer and some of which be unable to justify their malpractice , with evidence of modern - day slavery in their supply chain . we can not have company get away with poor practice where worker can not use the toilet , be not entitle to their break or fail to get their fair pay . transparency , accountability and enforcement be key , but we must remember that most business do their good by their worker , and I have witness that . since Second Reading , I have meet with business owner in several sector , from steelworker and scaffolder to restaurant owner and retail . during my visit and roundtable in my constituency of Dudley , both worker and employer often tell I that they want the same thing : the stability to grow and a fiscally responsible government who care about they and their future . stability be not a zero - sum game . research show that when business look after their employee , they create a more loyal and productive workforce , which in turn strengthen business and help they to grow the economy . in 2023 , digital research by Deloitte find that " foster trust , opportunity for growth , and employee well - be be the key to increase workforce retention and satisfaction " . to reassure business , we know that the implementation of this Bill will be in phase . that approach promise to allow step - by - step upskilling of hr professional and to update employment practice one step at a time ; they will not be expect to be employ until 2026 . I therefore ask the Minister to provide a road map outline detail of future consultation , with a two - year timeline to help to guide business owner to provide stability for business . a road map would undoubtedly help to ease grow pain , allow small business time to plan the necessary administration , upskilling and ability to resource for the fair work agency . both worker and business in Dudley would benefit greatly from that stability , and I wholeheartedly support this Bill . I rise to support the Bill , and in particular Government new schedule 2 . I must also draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my membership of both the GMB and Unite trade union . I should also make clear to the House my employment history , both as a chief executive officer and a manage director of company in the United States , the UK and Israel , and my record as a company founder and employer . I be very proud of have be a union member since my first day at work , when I join what be the Association of Scientific , Technical and Managerial Staffs . I can probably add a few year to the membership of my hon . friend the Member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) , but it will be a few more year before I catch up with my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) . I be also very proud to be support this Bill and the Government amendment , so that we can deliver reform that be rightly pro - business and pro - worker . the Bill will also put more money in people ' s pocket and deliver real - life improvement that will be feel by work people . key amendment that have be table will strengthen protection for the lowest - pay worker , extend protection from exploitative zero - hour contract , and boost the voice of work people in my constituency of Mansfield . I particularly welcome the Government ' s new schedule 2 , which will update framework for trade union , reflect modern work practice and rebalance industrial relation . it will ensure that the size of a workplace bargaining unit will be freeze and can not be increase during the recognition process . a recent example of where this new schedule would have support worker occur at Amazon . when my union , the GMB , first apply for statutory recognition there , Amazon report that it have 1 , 400 employee work at the site and refuse to have any discussion on trade union recognition . Amazon worker face a David versus Goliath fight in have to prove that they have at least 40 % support in the workplace for union recognition . as amend , the Bill will vastly simplify that process , with the new schedule freeze the bargaining unit at the point of application . we want to be able to bring good practice and good employer to our constituency . in 2023 , BH live , a company base in my constituency , be name as not pay 130 worker — 130 of the lowest - pay worker in my constituency — the national minimum wage . ultimately , BH Live do make payment , but do my hon . friend agree that it be wrong for anybody to be pay less than the national minimum wage , and that through the introduction of the new Fair Work Agency we be go to be able to right wrong like that ? I absolutely agree ; my hon . friend have spell out why enforcement be so important . I would happily speak far in support of so many of the amendment that have be table , but I be acutely aware that we be at the end of the debate . the hon . Gentleman be come to his exciting peroration , so I just want to say that he be absolutely right about the feckless behaviour of corporate business that disregard the interest of their worker , and I share his view of trade union . however , do he recognise that there be a world of difference between the burden we place on those organisation that can happily deal with they and the effect that some part of the Bill will have — perhaps unintentionally — on very small business ? I imagine that the business he start be such business , at least at the beginning . this Bill have cause fear among small business and microbusinesse . there be a real distinction between those heartless corporate and the hard - work sme in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency and mine , be there not ? as a small business founder and someone who have grow a business , I recognise the need for balance . I be grateful to the right hon . member for raise that point . in my concluding remark , I put on the record how proud I be of my union , the GMB and Unite , for the work that they have do with this Government to help deliver this groundbreaking legislation . I will therefore be vote with pride to support the Bill in the Lobby later today . we have have another excellent debate . we might have to deal with a few misconception , but I be conscious that we need to move on to Third Reading , so I apologise if I do not address every single contribution we have hear today . I will start with the Chair of the Select Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , and his new clause 82 . the Bill already require the Secretary of State to produce an annual report for employment right enforcement , as well as an enforcement strategy every three year . both document will be lay before Parliament , allow for parliamentary scrutiny . we be commit to give the Fair Work Agency the resource it need to do its job effectively . I agree with he that the number of prosecution for minimum wage violation have be pitifully small in recent year . we should never tolerate lawbreaker in the business world . we should ensure that responsible and well - perform business be never allow to be undercut by minimum wage violation . my right hon . friend ' s amendment 282 would include digital mean of communication with worker in union ' right of access to workplace . I appreciate the good intention behind the amendment , but the Government be already commit to modernise working practice and move away from a reliance on ad hoc access arrangement . we recognise the importance of provide for a digital right of access , in addition to the physical access for which the Bill already provide . that be why we have amend the Bill to expand access right , allow for access agreement to include communication with worker other than by mean of physical access to a workplace , such as digital mean . my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) talk about procurement . his new clause would amend the Procurement Act 2023 to place a duty on the Secretary of State to ensure that any contract enter into by either a Government Department , an executive agency of Government , a non - departmental public body or a non - ministerial department must comply with certain requirement relate to the recognition of trade union . we recognise that the recognition of trade union for collective bargaining be an important feature of the previous two - tier code on workforce matter . the Bill contain power to reinstate and strengthen the code by way of regulation and a statutory code , so I assure the House that the Government be commit to strengthen trade union recognition and collective bargaining right . new clause 77 , in the name of the hon . member for Dundee Central ( Chris Law ) , would result in a change to the Scotland Act 1998 by remove employment law from the list of reserved matter , thereby bring it within the competence of the Scottish Parliament . while his perseverance on this issue be not unnoticed , it would come as no surprise to he , be he here , that the Government have no intention of devolve employment law to the Scottish Parliament . previous Scotland Acts have already create one of the most powerful devolve Parliaments in the world . when there be considerably more SNP Members here during the last Parliament , there be a ten - minute rule Bill on this very subject , and the SNP could not even get a majority of its own member to support it , so why on Earth would we support such a measure now ? I do not know . I will turn to the amendment from my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) on prison officer ' right to strike . I thank he for his persistence and his active engagement on behalf of prison officer . as he say , prison officer be prevent from take industrial action under current legislation . their pay be govern by the independent Prison Service pay review body process , which act as a compensatory mechanism for that restriction . there be limited contingency to deal with industrial action , and during such incident the reliance be on a narrow pool of operational manager with some potential for very limited support from the police and Army in limited circumstance . that create operational risk and be not sustainable for any period of time . my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington refer to what he class as disrespect to prison officer during that debate in Committee . I just put on record that there be certainly no disrespect show by those on the Government Benches ; we value and respect the work that prison officer do . I know that he will continue to pursue this matter , and I suggest that he contact the Ministry of Justice , which have the remit . I hope it will be able to engage on the matter in future . let I now deal with some of the liberal Democrat new clause and amendment . the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) speak about new clause 19 , which would give the Secretary of State the power to set out and define in regulation the professional body that could represent employee at disciplinary meeting . it be unclear to we where the demand for that would come from , and I would expect it to benefit some business that have raise the prospect with successive government . what be clear , however , be that expand the type of organisation that could be involve in represent worker at such meeting could lead to hearing require legal representation for both the worker and the employer . that would increase the cost of hold a hearing , would escalate matter , and would potentially decrease the chance of an amicable resolution as both party become entrenched in dispute . we believe that trade union be well place to represent employee in disciplinary and grievance hearing in the workplace , and statutory provision be already in place to enable they to do that . the hon . member for St Albans also table new clause 111 , which relate to legal aid for employment dispute . I be committed to ensure that worker be able to enforce their employment right , and we be work closely with the Ministry of Justice to ensure that happen , look into what further improvement we can make to the way in which acas and employment tribunal operate . a key benefit of move enforcement to the Fair Work Agency be that it will make it easy and quick for worker to secure justice , without the need for additional legal representation or legal aid . I hope that give the hon . Lady some reassurance that we be look seriously at the issue . new clause 110 , also table by the hon . member for St Albans , " would require the Secretary of State to publish a review on the impact of Part 4 of the Bill … on sme within 3 month of the passage of this Act . " in the impact assessment , the Government have set out our initial plan for monitor an evaluation of the impact of the Bill , as well as some secondary legislation . I say this with the great respect to the hon . lady : she have express concern about the burden on business , but if we have accept all her party ' s amendment yesterday , that would have add several billion pound to the cost of business . the Liberal Democrats will have to decide , ideally tonight , whether they be in favour of worker ’ right or not . let I now deal with some of the amendment from the official Opposition . amendment 297 seek to " increase , from seven to 14 day , the notice period that trade union be require to adhere to when notify employer that they plan to take industrial action . " our consultation on the creation of a modern framework for industrial relation seek view on what an appropriate notice period would be , recognise that the repeal of the Trade Union Act 2016 would reduce the notice period from 14 to seven day . the Government have listen carefully to the concern express by respondent to the consultation who fear that a seven - day notice period would not provide enough time for union to prepare for industrial action in some important sector , such as transport , healthcare and education , with possible knock - on impact on other service . the Government believe that employer should be give enough time to mitigate the most severe effect of industrial action , and acknowledge response to the consultation argue that seven day ' notice be insufficient . of course , we do have seven day ' notice between 2010 and 2016 under the Tory Government . the Tories ' lack of understanding of the Bill be clear from the number of time we hear that it would take we back to the 1970 , whereas in fact it will take we back to 2015 , when an early version of the Bill be introduce . the Government ' s view be that 10 day provide the appropriate balance in enable employer to mitigate the impact of industrial action and reduce disruption and the knock - on impact of strike , while also respect the right to strike . amendment 291 seek to remove clause 52 , which deal with political fund and which , I think , prompt the most heated debate . it be notable that when it come to reduce tory red tape , it be only trade union that do not receive the same benefit as everyone else . there have , I think , be a fundamental misunderstanding of what a trade union be . it be a member - base , democratic organisation design to protect those who be part of it . comparison with Netflix subscription and insurance contract be bogus , because they be not the same thing at all . membership of a trade union and a political fund be not a subscription that people sign up to for a fix period ; it be membership of a democratically organised and independent trade union , which they be free to leave at any time . member have control of the organisation because it be democratically organise , and they can decide as a union whether to have a political fund at all . People can not email the chief executive of Netflix and demand that it make a programme star their favourite actor , but if people be unhappy with a trade union , they have the opportunity to get involve and change it . it should be note that in the 40 year that we have have political fund ballot , no union have disaffiliate from the Labour party as a result of that . there have be no closure of political fund , so it be very clear that this be simply red tape . of course , it be not all about fund the Labour party , because nearly half of all union that have a political fund be not affiliate with the Labour party . if conservative member be not satisfied with that , they should read the Bill that be before they , because the clause that they want to remove — clause 52 — set out in subsection ( 3 ) how member can opt out of a political fund . it even set out the way they can do so : by post , email or electronic mean . some of the patronising comment we have hear about people be trap into something that they do not wish to be in do not reflect the reality of the situation or the ability of trade union member to make up their own mind and exercise their democratic right . have any Conservative Members ever be member of a trade union , they would understand that . the repeat insinuation from Conservative Members that I or any anyone else on the Labour Benches have bring forward this Bill because we have be pay by the trade union to do so be offensive and wrong in equal measure . they might think money buy you the chance to write the law , but that say far more about their approach to legislation than it do about ours . on the Labour Benches , we do these thing because we believe in they . we believe that everyone deserve fair treatment at work , and this Bill deliver that . it be deliver on our value . in conclusion , the Bill represent a generational shift in protection , a long - overdue reinforcement of worker ’ right in this country , and tangible proof of how a Labour Government can bring meaningful benefit to people ' s life . for many of we , it be fundamental to why we be in the Labour party , so now be not the time to shy away from our effort . now be not the time to talk about what might have be ; it be the time to be bold , to be loud and to be proud that this Labour Government be deliver by put fairness , dignity and security back into the workplace . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 337 , Noes 98 . question accordingly agree to . new clause 39 read a second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 40 - political fund : requirement to pass political resolution " in section 73 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 ( pass and effect of political resolution ) — ( a ) omit subsection ( 3 ) ; ( b ) in subsection ( 4 ) , for " before the end of that period " substitute " a political resolution ( " the old resolution " ) be in force and " . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause would remove the requirement for a political resolution to be renew every ten year in order for a trade union to maintain a political fund . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 41 - industrial action ballot : support threshold " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) . ( 2 ) in section 226 ( requirement of ballot before action by trade union ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) ( iii ) , for " the require number of person ( see subsection ( 2A ) to ( 2C ) ) " substitute " the majority vote in the ballot " ; ( b ) omit subsection ( 2A ) to ( 2f ) . ( 3 ) in section 231 ( information for member as to result of ballot ) — ( a ) insert " and " at the end of paragraph ( e ) ; ( b ) omit paragraph ( g ) ( and the " and " before it ) . ( 4 ) in consequence of the amendment make by subsection ( 2 ) , omit section 3 of the Trade Union Act 2016 . " — ( Justin Madders . ) see the explanatory statement for amendment 192 - this new clause contain provision omit by that amendment and consequential amendment to section 231 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 42 - Notice of industrial action ballot and sample voting paper for employer " in section 226a of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 ( notice of ballot and sample voting paper for employer ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( c ) — ( i ) in sub - paragraph ( i ) , for the word from " figure " to " arrive at " substitute " number mention in subsection ( 2b ) " ; ( ii ) in sub - paragraph ( ii ) , for " figure and that explanation " substitute " that number " ; ( b ) for subsection ( 2b ) substitute — " ( 2b ) the number be the total number of employee concern . " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 2C ) — ( i ) in paragraph ( b ) , omit the word from " and the number " to " category " ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( c ) , omit the word from " and the number " to " workplace " ; ( d ) in subsection ( 2D ) , for " figure " substitute " the number " . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause would remove the requirement for a trade union to provide information to an employer ahead of an industrial action ballot as to the number of employee concern in each category or workplace and to provide an explanation of how the total number of employee concern be determine by the union . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 43 - period after which industrial action ballot cease to be effective " in section 234 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 ( period after which industrial action ballot cease to be effective ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , for the word from " period " to the end substitute " period of 12 month begin with the date of the ballot " . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause would increase the time period for which an industrial action ballot have effect from 6 month ( or up to 9 month by agreement between the employer and trade union ) to 12 month ( without the possibility of extension ) . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 44 - power to give notice of underpayment " ( 1 ) where it appear to the Secretary of State that — ( a ) on any day ( " the relevant day " ) , a sum in respect of — ( i ) one or more period end before the relevant day , or ( ii ) one or more event occur before the relevant day , be due from a person ( the " liable party " ) to an individual ( the " underpaid individual " ) under or by virtue of a statutory pay provision ( see subsection ( 7 ) ) , and ( b ) any period for payment of that sum to be make have end without the sum have be pay to the underpaid individual , the Secretary of State may give a notice of underpayment to the liable party . ( 2 ) a notice of underpayment be a notice under this section require the liable party to pay the required sum to the underpaid individual before the end of the period of 28 day begin with the day on which the notice be give . for the meaning of the " require sum " , see section ( calculation of the require sum ) . ( 3 ) subsection ( 1 ) be subject to — ( a ) subsection ( 6 ) , and ( b ) section ( period to which notice of underpayment may relate ) ( period to which notice of underpayment may relate ) . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may give a notice of underpayment to a person in respect of a sum that be due from the person on the relevant day whether or not the sum remain due at the time of the giving of the notice ( see , in particular , section ( penalty for underpayment ) ( penalty for underpayment ) ) . ( 5 ) but where all or part of that sum have be pay before the giving of the notice , the requirement impose by the notice be , to that extent , to be treat as meet . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may not give a notice of underpayment in respect of any matter if — ( a ) proceeding have be bring about the matter by virtue of section ( power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal ) ( power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal ) , and ( b ) the proceeding have not be finally determine or discontinue . ( 7 ) in this Part " statutory pay provision " mean a provision of relevant labour market legislation that — ( a ) confer a right or entitlement to the payment of any sum to an individual , or ( b ) prohibit or restrict the withholding of payment of any sum to an individual . " — ( Justin Madders . ) where an employer have fail to pay a worker an amount due to the worker under a provision of legislation list in Part 1 of schedule 5 ( for example , the minimum wage or statutory sick pay ) , the Secretary of State may give the employer a notice of underpayment require the employer to pay the amount due . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 45 - calculation of the require sum " ( 1 ) for the purpose of section ( power to give notice of underpayment ) ( 2 ) , the " require sum " be whichever be the great of the following sum — ( a ) the sum that be due to the underpaid individual on the relevant day ; ( b ) in a case where regulation under subsection ( 2 ) apply , the sum determine in accordance with the regulation . this be subject to subsection ( 4 ) . ( 2 ) regulation make by the Secretary of State may make provision for determine the sum require to be pay to an individual by a notice of underpayment in a case where the sum due to the individual on any day under or by virtue of a statutory pay provision would have be great have that sum be determine by reference to the statutory pay provision as it have effect at the time of give the notice of underpayment . ( 3 ) but regulation under subsection ( 2 ) may not make provision in relation to any provision of the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 ( see instead section 17 of that Act ) . ( 4 ) if the require sum in respect of an underpaid individual would ( in the absence of this subsection ) be great than the specify maximum for the statutory pay provision concern , the require sum in respect of the underpaid individual be the specified maximum . ( 5 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 4 ) " the specify maximum " , in relation to a statutory pay provision , mean an amount specify by , or determine in accordance with , regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 6 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause provide for the calculation of the sum that be require to be pay . there be power to provide for the amount owe to be uprate in line with legislative change occur after the sum first become due . there be also power to set a cap on the amount that can be require to be pay by a notice of underpayment in respect of a single individual . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 46 - period to which notice of underpayment may relate " ( 1 ) a notice of underpayment may not relate to any sum that become due under or by virtue of a statutory pay provision before the beginning of the claim period . ( 2 ) the " claim period " , in relation to a notice of underpayment , be the period of six year end with the day on which the notice be give . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend this section so as to alter the length of the claim period . ( 4 ) regulation under subsection ( 3 ) — ( a ) may specify different claim period in relation to different statutory pay provision ; ( b ) may not provide for the claim period in relation to a notice of underpayment to be great than the period of six year end with the day on which the notice be give . ( 5 ) regulation under subsection ( 3 ) be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . ( 6 ) a notice of underpayment may relate to sum that become due before the come into force of this section . ( 7 ) but a notice of underpayment may not relate to any sum that become due before the day on which this Act be pass . ( 8 ) subsection ( 7 ) do not apply to a notice of underpayment so far as it relate to any sum due under section 17 of the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 ( entitlement to additional remuneration for failure to pay at least the minimum wage ) . ( 9 ) see also section ( replacement notice of underpayment ) ( 3 ) ( claim period for replacement notice of underpayment ) . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause provide that a notice of underpayment may relate to sum that become due within the period of six year end with the giving of the notice . there be power to alter the length of this period , but it can not be more than six year . a notice of underpayment may also relate to sum that become due before the come into force of this clause , as otherwise the power to give notice of underpayment would not become exercisable to its full extent until six year after that time . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 47 - notice of underpayment : further provision " ( 1 ) where a notice of underpayment relate to more than one underpaid individual , the notice may identify the individual by name or by description . ( 2 ) a notice of underpayment must specify , for each underpaid individual to whom it relate — ( a ) the relevant day in relation to the individual ; ( b ) the sum due to the individual on that day and how that sum be calculate ; ( c ) the period or period , or event or event , in respect of which it be due ; ( d ) the statutory pay provision under or by virtue of which it be due ; ( e ) the fact that any period for payment of that sum to be make ended without the sum have be pay ; ( f ) the require sum in respect of the individual and ( if different from the sum mention in paragraph ( b ) ) how that sum be calculate . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause make provision about the information to be include in a notice of underpayment . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 48 - penalty for underpayment " ( 1 ) a notice of underpayment must require the liable party to pay a penalty to the Secretary of State . this be subject to section ( further provision about penalty ) ( 1 ) . ( 2 ) the penalty must be pay before the end of the period of 28 day begin with the day on which the notice be give . ( 3 ) the amount of the penalty be the total of the amount for each underpaid individual to whom the notice relate calculate in accordance with subsection ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) ( but see subsection ( 6 ) ) . ( 4 ) the amount for each underpaid individual to whom the notice relate be 200 % of the sum specify in the notice of underpayment as the sum due to the individual on the relevant day ( see section ( notice of underpayment : further provision ) ( 2 ) ( b ) ) . ( 5 ) but if the amount determine under subsection ( 4 ) for any underpaid individual would be more than £ 20 , 000 , the amount for the individual take into account in calculate the penalty be to be £ 20 , 000 . ( 6 ) if a penalty calculate in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) would be less than £ 100 , the amount of the penalty be to be £ 100 . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend this section — ( a ) so as to substitute a different percentage for a percentage for the time be specify in this section ; ( b ) so as to substitute a different amount for an amount for the time be specify in this section ; ( c ) so as to specify different percentage or amount for different purpose . ( 8 ) regulation under subsection ( 7 ) be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause provide that a notice of underpayment must also impose a financial penalty on the person give the notice , and set out how the penalty will be calculate . the maximum penalty in respect of an underpaid individual be £ 20 , 000 , but a notice of underpayment may relate to more than one such individual . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 49 - further provision about penalty " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by direction specify circumstance in which a notice of underpayment be not to impose a requirement to pay a penalty . ( 2 ) a direction under subsection ( 1 ) may be amend or revoke by a further direction . ( 3 ) a notice of underpayment that impose a requirement to pay a penalty must — ( a ) specify the amount of the penalty , ( b ) state how that amount be calculate , and ( c ) specify the date by which the penalty must be pay . ( 4 ) in a case where a notice of underpayment impose a requirement on a person to pay a penalty , if the person , before the end of the period of 14 day begin with the day on which the notice be give — ( a ) pay ( or have pay ) the require sum specify in the notice of underpayment , and ( b ) pay at least half the penalty , the person be to be regard as have pay the penalty . ( 5 ) any penalty receive by the Secretary of State in accordance with section ( penalty for underpayment ) be to be pay into the Consolidated Fund . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause enable the Secretary of State to specify circumstance in which a penalty be not to be impose . it also enable a person who have pay the sum owe to the underpaid individual , and at least 50 % of the penalty , within 14 day of be give the notice to satisfy their liability entirely . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 50 - suspension of penalty where criminal proceeding have be bring , etc " ( 1 ) subsection ( 3 ) apply where — ( a ) the Secretary of State be propose to give a notice of underpayment that impose a requirement on a person to pay a penalty , and ( b ) it appear to the Secretary of State that — ( i ) relevant criminal proceeding have be bring , or ( ii ) relevant criminal proceeding may be bring . ( 2 ) in this section " relevant criminal proceeding " mean proceeding against the person for a labour market offence in respect of any act or omission to which the notice relate ( " the relevant conduct " ) . ( 3 ) the notice of underpayment may contain provision suspend the requirement to pay the penalty until a notice terminate the suspension be give to the person under subsection ( 4 ) . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may give the person a notice terminate the suspension ( a " penalty activation notice " ) if it appear to the Secretary of State — ( a ) in a case refer to in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) ( i ) , that the proceeding have conclude without the person have be convict of a labour market offence in respect of the relevant conduct , or ( b ) in a case refer to in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) ( ii ) — ( i ) that relevant criminal proceeding will not be bring , or ( ii ) that relevant criminal proceeding have conclude without the person have be convict of a labour market offence in respect of the relevant conduct . ( 5 ) where a penalty activation notice be give , the requirement to pay the penalty have effect as if the notice of underpayment have be give on the day on which the penalty activation notice be give . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must give the person a notice withdraw the requirement to pay the penalty if it appear to the Secretary of State that the person have be convict of a labour market offence in respect of the relevant conduct . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause enable a penalty impose by a notice of underpayment to be suspend where the person give the notice be subject to criminal proceeding in respect of the conduct to which the notice relate . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 51 - Appeals against notice of underpayment " ( 1 ) a person to whom a notice of underpayment be give may appeal to a tribunal against any one or more of the following — ( a ) the decision to give the notice ; ( b ) any requirement impose by the notice to pay a sum to an individual ; ( c ) any requirement impose by the notice to pay a penalty . ( 2 ) an appeal under this section must be make before the end of the period of 28 day begin with the day on which the notice be give . ( 3 ) an appeal under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) may be make only on one or more of the follow ground — ( a ) that no sum be due to any individual to whom the notice relate on the specified day under or by virtue of the specify provision ; ( b ) that , in the case of every sum specify in the notice as due to an individual to whom the notice relate , the sum have be pay before the end of the period mention in section ( power to give notice of underpayment ) ( 1 ) ( b ) ; ( c ) that , in the case of every sum specify in the notice as due to an individual to whom the notice relate , the sum be one to which a notice may not relate by virtue of subsection ( 1 ) or ( 7 ) of section ( period to which notice of underpayment may relate ) ( period to which notice may relate ) . ( 4 ) an appeal under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) in relation to an individual may be make only on one or more of the follow ground — ( a ) that , on the specified day , no sum be due to the individual under or by virtue of the specify provision ; ( b ) that , in the case of any sum specify in the notice as due to the individual , the sum have be pay before the end of the period mention in section ( power to give notice of underpayment ) ( 1 ) ( b ) ; ( c ) that , in the case of any sum specify in the notice as due to the individual , the sum be one to which a notice may not relate by virtue of subsection ( 1 ) or ( 7 ) of section ( period to which notice of underpayment may relate ) ; ( d ) that the amount specify in the notice as the sum require to be pay to the individual be incorrect ; ( e ) that , in the case of a replacement notice give under section ( replacement notice of underpayment ) , the notice contravene subsection ( 2 ) of that section . ( 5 ) an appeal under subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) may be make only on one or more of the follow ground — ( a ) that the notice be give in circumstance specify in a direction under section ( further provision about penalty ) ( 1 ) ; ( b ) that the amount of the penalty specify in the notice of underpayment have be incorrectly calculate ( whether because the notice be incorrect in some of the particular which affect that calculation or for some other reason ) . ( 6 ) where the tribunal allow an appeal under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , it must cancel the notice . ( 7 ) where , in a case where subsection ( 6 ) do not apply , the tribunal allow an appeal under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) or ( c ) — ( a ) the tribunal must rectify the notice , and ( b ) the notice of underpayment , as rectify , have effect as if it have be give on the day on which the tribunal make its determination . ( 8 ) in this section — " the specified day " , in relation to an individual , mean the day specify in accordance with section ( notice of underpayment : further provision ) ( 2 ) ( a ) in relation to the individual ; " the specify provision " , in relation to an individual , mean the statutory pay provision specify in accordance with section ( notice of underpayment : further provision ) ( 2 ) ( d ) in relation to the individual ; " tribunal " mean — ( a ) an employment tribunal , in relation to England and Wales or Scotland ; ( b ) an industrial tribunal , in relation to Northern Ireland . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause provide for a right of appeal against a notice of underpayment . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 52 - Withdrawal of notice of underpayment " ( 1 ) where — ( a ) a notice of underpayment have be give to a person ( and not already withdraw or cancel ) , and ( b ) it appear to the Secretary of State that the notice incorrectly include or omit any requirement or be incorrect in any particular , the Secretary of State may withdraw it by give a notice of withdrawal to the person . ( 2 ) where a notice of underpayment give to a person be withdraw and no replacement notice of underpayment be give in accordance with section ( replacement notice of underpayment ) — ( a ) any sum pay by or recover from the person by way of penalty payable under the notice must be repay to the person with interest at the appropriate rate run from the date when the sum be pay or recover ; ( b ) any appeal against the notice must be dismiss . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) " the appropriate rate " mean the rate that , on the date the sum be pay or recover , be specify in section 17 of the Judgments Act 1838 . ( 4 ) where subsection ( 2 ) apply , the notice of withdrawal must indicate the effect of that subsection ( but a failure to do so do not make the withdrawal ineffective ) . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause enable a notice of underpayment that be incorrect in some way to be withdraw . if a replacement notice be not give , then any penalty pay by the person must be repay with interest . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 53 - Replacement notice of underpayment " ( 1 ) if the Secretary of State — ( a ) give a notice of withdrawal to a person under section ( Withdrawal of notice of underpayment ) , and ( b ) be of the opinion refer to in section ( power to give notice of underpayment ) ( 1 ) in relation to any individual specify in the notice which be be withdraw ( " the original notice " ) , the Secretary of State may at the same time give a fresh notice of underpayment to the person ( a " replacement notice " ) . ( 2 ) the replacement notice may not relate to any individual to whom the original notice do not relate . ( 3 ) the claim period for a replacement notice ( see section ( period to which notice of underpayment may relate ) ( 1 ) ) be the period — ( a ) begin with the claim period for the original notice , and ( b ) end with the day on which the replacement notice be give . accordingly , the replacement notice may relate to sum that become due after the day on which the original notice be give . ( 4 ) the replacement notice must — ( a ) set out the difference between it and the original notice that it be reasonable for the Secretary of State to consider be material , and ( b ) explain the effect of section ( effect of replacement notice of underpayment ) . ( 5 ) failure to comply with subsection ( 4 ) do not make the replacement notice ineffective . ( 6 ) where a replacement notice be withdraw under section ( Withdrawal of notice of underpayment ) , no further replacement notice may be give under subsection ( 1 ) as a result of the withdrawal . ( 7 ) nothing in this section affect any power that exist apart from this section to give a notice of underpayment in relation to any underpaid individual . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause enable a replacement notice of underpayment to be give where an early notice have be withdraw . the replacement notice can not relate to any underpaid individual to whom the original notice do not relate , but may relate to sum that have become due since the original notice be give . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 54 - effect of replacement notice of underpayment " ( 1 ) this section apply where a notice of underpayment be withdraw under section ( Withdrawal of notice of underpayment ) and a replacement notice be give in accordance with section ( replacement notice of underpayment ) . ( 2 ) if an appeal have be make under section ( appeal against notice of underpayment ) in respect of the original notice and the appeal have not be withdraw or finally determine before the time when that notice be withdraw — ( a ) that appeal ( " the early appeal " ) have effect after that time as if it have be make in respect of the replacement notice , and ( b ) the person give the notice may exercise the right of appeal under that section in respect of the replacement notice only if the early appeal be withdraw . ( 3 ) if a sum be pay by or recover from the person by way of penalty under the original notice — ( a ) an amount equal to that sum ( or , if more than one , the total of those sum ) be to be treat as have be pay in respect of the penalty impose by the replacement notice , and ( b ) any amount by which that sum ( or total ) exceed the amount of the penalty impose by the replacement notice must be repay to the person with interest at the appropriate rate run from the date when the sum ( or , if more than one , the first of they ) be pay or recover . ( 4 ) in subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) " the appropriate rate " mean the rate that , on the date mention in that provision , be specify in section 17 of the Judgments Act 1838 . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause set out the effect of a replacement notice of underpayment . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 55 - enforcement of requirement to pay sum due to individual " ( 1 ) in a case where it appear to the Secretary of State that the liable party have fail to comply with a requirement in a notice of underpayment to pay a sum to an underpaid individual , the Secretary of State may apply to the court for an order under this section . ( 2 ) an application under this section may be make only if — ( a ) the relevant 28 - day period have end , and ( b ) the liable party ' s appeal right be exhausted ( see subsection ( 5 ) ) . ( 3 ) if , on an application under this section , the court be satisfied that — ( a ) the notice be give to the liable party and have not be withdraw , and ( b ) the liable party have fail to comply with a requirement impose by the notice to pay a sum to an underpaid individual , the court must order the liable party to pay the sum to the underpaid individual within the period specify in the order . ( 4 ) this section do not affect any right of an underpaid individual to recover any sum owe by the liable party to the individual . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section , the liable party ' s appeal right be exhausted if — ( a ) the relevant 28 - day period end without an appeal be make under section ( appeal against notice of underpayment ) in respect of the notice , ( b ) any appeal make under that section by the liable party in respect of the notice have be withdraw , or ( c ) any such appeal have be finally determine and the notice have not be cancel under subsection ( 6 ) of that section . ( 6 ) in this section — " the court " mean — ( a ) the county court , in relation to England and Wales ; ( b ) the sheriff , in relation to Scotland ; ( c ) a county court , in relation to Northern Ireland ; " the relevant 28 - day period " mean the period of 28 day begin with the day on which the notice ( or , where section ( Appeals against notice of underpayment ) ( 7 ) ( b ) apply , the rectified notice ) be give . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause enable the Secretary of State to apply to a court for an order require a person who have not comply with a notice of underpayment to pay the sum require to be pay to the underpaid individual . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 56 - enforcement of requirement to pay penalty " ( 1 ) in England and Wales , a penalty be recoverable as if it be payable under an order of the county court . ( 2 ) in Scotland , a penalty may be enforce in the same manner as an extract register decree arbitral bear a warrant for execution issue by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom in Scotland . ( 3 ) in Northern Ireland , a penalty be recoverable as if it be payable under an order of a county court . ( 4 ) where action be take under this section for the recovery of a penalty , the penalty — ( a ) in relation to England and Wales , be to be treat for the purpose of section 98 of the Courts Act 2003 ( register of judgment and order etc ) as if it be a judgment enter in the county court ; ( b ) in relation to Northern Ireland , be to be treat for the purpose of article 116 of the Judgments Enforcement ( Northern Ireland ) order 1981 ( s . I . 1981 / 226 ( N . I . 6 ) ) ( register of judgment ) as if it be a judgment in respect of which an application have be accept under article 22 or 23 ( 1 ) of that order . ( 5 ) in this section " penalty " mean a penalty payable under a notice of underpayment . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause provide for how the requirement to pay a penalty impose by a notice of underpayment may be enforce . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 57 - power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal " ( 1 ) in a case where — ( a ) a worker have the right under any enactment to bring proceeding about a matter in an employment tribunal in England and Wales or Scotland , and ( b ) it appear to the Secretary of State that the worker be not go to bring proceeding about that matter , the Secretary of State may , in place of the worker , bring proceeding about the matter in an employment tribunal under the enactment . ( 2 ) subsection ( 1 ) do not apply to — ( a ) any right to bring proceeding about a matter in respect of which a notice of underpayment under section ( power to give notice of underpayment ) have be give ; ( b ) any right arise under or by virtue of the Agricultural Sector ( Wales ) Act 2014 ( anaw 6 ) or the Agricultural Wages ( Scotland ) Act 1949 . ( 3 ) where by virtue of this section the Secretary of State bring proceeding in place of a worker — ( a ) the proceeding be to be proceed with as if they have be bring by the worker , and ( b ) for the purpose of deal with the proceeding , and any proceeding arise out of those proceeding , reference to the worker in any enactment be to be read as include a reference to the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) but , despite subsection ( 3 ) , any power which an employment tribunal deal with the proceeding would have to make a declaration , decision , award or other order in favour of the worker if the worker have bring the proceeding continue to be exercisable in relation to the worker ( not the Secretary of State ) . ( 5 ) any appeal arise out of proceeding bring by the Secretary of State in place of a worker by virtue of this section may be bring by the worker as well as by the Secretary of State . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State be not liable to any worker for anything do ( or omit to be do ) in , or in connection with , the discharge or purport discharge of the Secretary of State ' s function by virtue of this section . ( 7 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) any reference to a worker include — ( i ) an individual who be not a worker as define by section 230 ( 3 ) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 but who be a worker for the purpose of Part 4A of that Act ( see section 43 k ( 1 ) of that Act ) , and ( ii ) an individual seek to be employ by a person as a worker ; ( b ) any reference to a right to bring proceeding under an enactment be to such a right however express , and include any right to present a complaint or make any other description of claim or application ; ( c ) any reference to the Secretary of State include an enforcement officer . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause would enable the Secretary of State , in a case where a worker have the right to bring proceeding about a matter in an employment tribunal , to bring proceeding about that matter in place of the worker . an employment tribunal hear such proceeding may still make a financial award , etc in the worker ' s favour if , for example , the complaint about the matter be well - found . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 58 - Power to provide legal assistance " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may assist a person who be or may become party to civil proceeding in England and Wales or Scotland relate to employment or trade union law or the law of labour relation . ( 2 ) in give assistance under this section the Secretary of State may provide or arrange for the provision of — ( a ) legal advice ; ( b ) legal representation ; ( c ) any other form of assistance . ( 3 ) but the Secretary of State may not provide , or arrange for the provision of , facility for the settlement of a dispute . ( 4 ) where proceeding relate or may relate partly to employment or trade union law or the law of labour relation ( " employment - relate matter " ) and partly to other matter — ( a ) assistance may be give under this section in respect of any aspect of the proceeding , and ( b ) if the proceeding cease to relate to employment - relate matter — ( i ) assistance may nevertheless continue to be give under this section in respect of the proceeding , but ( ii ) the fact that assistance have be give under this section in respect of the proceeding do not require such assistance to continue to be give . ( 5 ) this section do not affect any restriction impose in respect of representation — ( a ) by virtue of an enactment , or ( b ) in accordance with the practice of a court or tribunal . ( 6 ) a legislative provision which require insurance or an indemnity in respect of advice give in connection with a settlement agreement do not apply to advice provide by the Secretary of State under this section . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause would enable the Secretary of State to provide , or arrange for the provision of , assistance to any person who be or may become party to civil proceeding relate to employment or trade union law or the law of labour relation . such assistance may include , in particular , legal advice or representation . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 59 - Recovery of cost of legal assistance " ( 1 ) subsection ( 2 ) apply where — ( a ) the Secretary of State have assist a person under section ( power to provide legal assistance ) in relation to proceeding , and ( b ) the person become entitled to some or all of the person ' s cost or , in Scotland , expense in the proceeding ( whether as a result of an award or as a result of an agreement ) . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State ' s expenditure in give the assistance — ( a ) be to be charge on sum pay to the person by way of cost or expense , and ( b ) may be enforce as a debt due to the Secretary of State . ( 3 ) a requirement to pay money to the Secretary of State under subsection ( 2 ) rank , in England and Wales , after a requirement impose by virtue of section 25 of the legal aid , sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 ( statutory charge in connection with civil legal aid ) . ( 4 ) subsection ( 2 ) , in its application to Scotland , do not affect the operation of section 17 ( 2A ) of the legal aid ( Scotland ) Act 1986 ( requirement in certain case to pay to the Scottish Legal aid Board sum recover under award of , or agreement as to , expense ) . ( 5 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) , the Secretary of State ' s expenditure be to be calculate in accordance with such provision ( if any ) as the Secretary of State make for the purpose by regulation . ( 6 ) Regulations under subsection ( 5 ) may , in particular , provide for the apportionment of expenditure incur by the Secretary of State — ( a ) partly for one purpose and partly for another , or ( b ) for general purpose . ( 7 ) regulation under subsection ( 5 ) be subject to the negative resolution procedure . " — ( Justin Madders . ) where the Secretary of State have give assistance to a person under NC58 , and the person be entitle to be pay cost in the proceeding , this new clause enable the Secretary of State to recover the cost of give the assistance out of the cost pay to the person . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 60 - power to recover cost of enforcement " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision require a relevant person , or a relevant person of a specified description , to pay a charge as a means of recover any enforcement cost incur in relation to the person . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section — " enforcement cost " , in relation to a relevant person , mean any cost incur in connection with the exercise of an enforcement function of the Secretary of State in relation to the person ; " relevant person " mean a person who have fail to comply with any relevant labour market legislation ; " specified " mean specify in the regulation . ( 3 ) regulation under this section may — ( a ) provide that the amount of a charge be — ( i ) a fix amount , or ( ii ) an amount calculate by reference to an hourly rate ; ( b ) provide for the amount of the charge to be determine by the Secretary of State in accordance with the regulation . ( 4 ) the regulation may in particular — ( a ) provide that the amount of a charge be to be determine by the Secretary of State in accordance with a scheme make and publish by the Secretary of State , and ( b ) make provision about such scheme , include the principle govern such scheme . ( 5 ) the provision that may be make by regulation under this section include , among other thing — ( a ) provision for charge to be payable only in specify circumstance ; ( b ) provision about reduction , exemption and waiver ; ( c ) provision about how and when charge be to be pay ; ( d ) provision about the collection or recovery of payment ; ( e ) provision for the charging of interest on unpaid charge ; ( f ) provision about the resolution of dispute relate to the payment of charge , include provision for the making of appeal to a court or tribunal . ( 6 ) regulation under this section be subject to the negative resolution procedure . ( 7 ) Sums pay to the Secretary of State under this section be not require to be pay into the Consolidated Fund . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause would enable the Secretary of State to recover enforcement cost incur in relation to a person who have fail to comply with the legislation which the Secretary of State be responsible for enforce under Part 5 . regulation may require such a person to pay a charge in order to recover those cost . the amount of the charge would be determine in accordance with the regulation , and there be power for the Secretary of State to make and publish a scheme for determine the amount of a charge . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 110 - review into the impact on small business " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passage of this Act , lie before Parliament a review on the impact of Part 4 ( Trade Unions and Industrial Action , etc ) of this Act on small and medium - sized enterprise . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must have regard to — ( a ) administrative cost ; ( b ) legal cost ; and ( c ) tax change affect small and medium - sized enterprise take effect from the 2025 - 26 financial year . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , small and medium - sized enterprise be business employ 250 or few employee . " — ( Daisy Cooper . ) this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish a review on the impact of Part 4 of this Bill , on Trade Unions and Industrial Action , on sme within 3 month of the passage of this Act . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Z ö e Franklin Charlie Maynard Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 168 , Noes 314 . question accordingly negative . clause 50 - right of trade union to access workplace Amendments make : 162 , page 61 , leave out line 15 and insert — " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) . ( 2 ) in Part 1 " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 184 . amendment 163 , page 61 , line 24 , leave out from " for " to " for " in line 25 and insert — " one or more official of the union to physically enter a workplace or communicate with worker ( or both ) " . this amendment and other to this clause would expand the scope of access agreement so that they can include provision about communication with worker other than by mean of physical entry into a workplace ( for example , by digital mean ) . amendment 164 , page 61 , leave out line 30 and 31 and insert — " ( 4 ) " access " mean — ( a ) physical entry into a workplace ; ( b ) communication with worker . " — ( Justin Madders . ) see the explanatory statement to amendment 163 . amendment 165 , page 61 , leave out line 32 and 33 . this amendment be consequential on amendment 183 . amendment 166 , page 61 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) a reference to communication with worker be a reference to communication with worker ( include the provision of information to worker ) by any mean , whether directly or indirectly . " see the explanatory statement to amendment 163 - this amendment would clarify that communication with worker in the context of access agreement mean communication by any mean and include the provision of information to worker . for example , an access agreement could require an employer to provide information to their worker on behalf of official of a union within an all - staff email . amendment 167 , page 61 , line 35 , after " meet , " insert " support , " . this amendment would clarify that access can be for the purpose of support worker in any way . amendment 168 , page 62 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 11 ) Section 70ZJA contain general limitation on the provision that may be make under this chapter , include in access agreement . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 183 . amendment 169 , page 62 , line 12 , leave out " to a workplace " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 163 . amendment 170 , page 63 , line 27 , leave out " to the workplace " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 163 . amendment 171 , page 63 , line 30 , leave out " to the workplace " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 163 . amendment 172 , page 64 , line 27 , leave out " access a workplace " and insert — " physically enter a workplace or communicate with worker ( or both ) " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 163 . amendment 173 , page 64 , line 31 , leave out " to a workplace " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 163 . amendment 174 , page 64 , line 31 , at end insert — " ( ba ) physical entry into a workplace should not be refuse solely on the basis that communication with worker by mean not involve physical entry into a workplace be permit ; ( bb ) communication with worker by mean not involve physical entry into a workplace should not be refuse solely on the basis that physical entry into a workplace be permit ; " see the explanatory statement for amendment 163 - this amendment would ensure that the Central Arbitration Committee ' s determination about access do not prioritise communication with worker other than by mean involve physical entry over physical entry and vice versa . amendment 175 , page 65 , line 5 , leave out " to a workplace " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 163 . amendment 176 , page 65 , leave out line 10 and 11 . see the explanatory statement for amendment 163 . amendment 177 , page 65 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( can ) the number of worker employ by the employer , or of a particular description , that be member of the union ; " see the explanatory statement for amendment 163 . amendment 178 , page 65 , line 14 , leave out " the " and insert " a " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 163 . amendment 179 , page 65 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( da ) a description of worker ; " see the explanatory statement for amendment 163 . amendment 180 , page 65 , line 15 , leave out " to the workplace " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 163 . amendment 181 , page 67 , line 17 , leave out — " may not exceed a prescribed amount " and insert — " may be any amount that the Central Arbitration Committee consider appropriate , subject to regulation under section 70zia " this amendment and amendment 182 would allow the Secretary of State to make more detailed provision in regulation about the amount require to be pay for breach of access requirement . amendment 182 , page 67 , line 30 , at end insert — " 70zia power to make provision about amount payable under section 70zi ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may prescribe that an amount payable under section 70zi ( 5 ) ( b ) — ( a ) must be at least a prescribed amount ; ( b ) may not exceed a prescribed amount . ( 2 ) an amount may be prescribe under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) or ( b ) — ( a ) as a fix amount ; ( b ) by reference to one or more prescribed factor ; ( c ) as the high or low of two or more prescribed amount , whether prescribe as fix amount or by reference to one or more prescribed factor . ( 3 ) the factor that may be prescribe under subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) or ( c ) include ( among other ) — ( a ) the nature of the complaint under section 70zi ( 2 ) against the person require to pay the amount ( the " liable party " ) ; ( b ) whether the liable party have previously be subject to a complaint under section 70zh ( 1 ) or 70zi ( 2 ) , or a prescribed number of such complaint , declare by the Central Arbitration Committee to be well - found ; ( c ) whether the liable party be of a prescribed description ; ( d ) in the case of a liable party that be an undertaking , the turnover of the liable party in a prescribed period , include ( in particular ) worldwide , european or United Kingdom turnover ; ( e ) in the case of a liable party that be an employer — ( i ) the number of worker employ by the liable party , or ( ii ) the number of worker of a prescribe description employ by the liable party ; ( f ) in the case of a liable party that be a trade union , the number of member that the liable party have . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may prescribe matter to which the Central Arbitration Committee must have regard in consider what amount be payable under section 70zi ( 5 ) ( b ) . " see the explanatory statement for amendment 181 . amendment 183 , page 68 , line 14 , at end insert — " general limitation on access agreement etc 70zja General limitation on access agreement etc ( 1 ) nothing in this chapter require or authorise any of the following ( each , a " prohibit activity " ) — ( a ) physical entry by any person into a dwelling ; ( b ) a disclosure of personal datum without the consent of the data subject ; ( c ) a disclosure of information that would contravene the data protection legislation ( but , in determine whether a disclosure would do so , the provision of this chapter be to be take into account ) . ( 2 ) accordingly — ( a ) a term of an access agreement enter into under section 70zd that require or authorise a prohibit activity be of no effect for the purpose of this chapter ; ( b ) the Central Arbitration Committee may not specify as a term of an access agreement under section 70ze any term that would require or authorise a prohibit activity ; ( c ) the Central Arbitration Committee may not exercise any function under section 70ZH to 70zj so as to require or authorise a prohibit activity . ( 3 ) in this section — ( a ) " consent " have the same meaning as in the UK GDPR ( see Article 4 ( 11 ) of the UK GDPR ) ; ( b ) " personal datum " , " datum subject " , " the data protection legislation " and " the UK GDPR " have the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 of that Act ) . " this amendment would ensure that the provision require trade union to have access to worker and workplace can not require physical entry into dwelling , the disclosure of personal datum without consent ( whether or not that would be a breach of the data protection legislation ) or a disclosure in breach of the data protection legislation ( whether or not the breach arise from a lack of consent ) . amendment 184 , page 68 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) in section 263 ( proceeding of the Central Arbitration Committee ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 4 ) , omit " or , in Scotland , an oversman " ; ( b ) after subsection ( 6 ) insert — " ( 6a ) in relation to the discharge of the Committee ' s function under section 70ze — ( a ) section 263ZA and subsection ( 6 ) apply , and ( b ) subsection ( 1 ) to ( 5 ) do not apply . " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 7 ) , before " Schedule A1 " insert " section 70ZH or 70zi or " ; ( d ) after subsection ( 7 ) insert — " ( 8 ) the reference in subsection ( 7 ) to the Committee ' s function under Schedule A1 do not include a reference to its function under paragraph 166 of that schedule . " ( 4 ) after section 263 insert — " 263ZA Proceedings of the Committee under section 70ze ( 1 ) for the purpose of discharge its function under section 70ze in any particular case , the Central Arbitration Committee be to consist of — ( a ) one member of the Committee , or ( b ) a panel of three member of the Committee , as the chairman of the Committee may direct . ( 2 ) in decide what direction to make under subsection ( 1 ) , the chairman of the Committee must have regard to the complexity of the case , with a view to direct that the Committee be to consist of one member only in case which the chairman consider be less complex . ( 3 ) for those purpose , the chairman must in particular — ( a ) consider whether any term propose as term on which official of a qualifying trade union be to have access be prescribe under section 70zf ( 3 ) , and ( b ) consider whether , if any of those term be so prescribed , that fact reduce the complexity of the case , have regard to any other term so propose . ( 4 ) in subsection ( 3 ) , " qualify trade union " and " access " have the same meaning as in chapter 5za of Part 1 ( see section 70za ) . ( 5 ) the chairman of the Committee may amend a direction under subsection ( 1 ) at any time . ( 6 ) if a direction under subsection ( 1 ) be amend — ( a ) the amendment do not affect anything do by the Committee before the amendment ; ( b ) anything do by the Committee before the amendment be to be treat as have be do by the Committee as it be constitute after the amendment . ( 7 ) if the Committee consist of one member of the Committee — ( a ) the member be to be appoint by the chairman of the Committee ; ( b ) the member be not require to be the chairman or a deputy chairman of the Committee ; ( c ) the member may at the member ' s discretion sit in private where it appear expedient to do so . ( 8 ) if the Committee consist of a panel of three member of the Committee — ( a ) the panel be to be appoint by the chairman of the Committee ; ( b ) the panel be to consist of the follow member — ( i ) the chairman or a deputy chairman of the Committee ; ( ii ) a member of the Committee whose experience be as a representative of employer ; ( iii ) a member of the Committee whose experience be as a representative of worker ; ( c ) the panel be to be chair by the chairman or the deputy chairman of the Committee ; ( d ) the panel may at the discretion of its chairman sit in private where it appear expedient to do so . ( 9 ) if — ( a ) a panel can not reach a unanimous decision on a question arise before it , and ( b ) a majority of the panel have the same opinion , the question be to be decide accord to that opinion . ( 10 ) if — ( a ) a panel can not reach a unanimous decision on a question arise before it , and ( b ) a majority of the panel do not have the same opinion , the chairman of the panel may decide the question act with the full power of an umpire . ( 11 ) subject to the provision of this section , the Committee may determine its own procedure . " ( 5 ) in section 263A ( proceeding of the Central Arbitration Committee under Schedule A1 ) — ( a ) for the heading substitute " proceeding of the Committee : other special case " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for " under Schedule A1 " substitute " in relation to which this section apply ( see section 263 ( 7 ) ) " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 6 ) , omit " or , in Scotland , an oversman " ; ( d ) omit subsection ( 8 ) . ( 6 ) in section 264 ( award of the Central Arbitration Committee ) — ( a ) in the heading , after " Awards " insert " etc " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) , after " award , " insert " in any determination , declaration , order or other decision of the Committee under chapter 5za of Part 1 , " ; ( c ) after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) subsection ( 2 ) do not apply in relation to chapter 5za of Part 1 . " ( 7 ) in Schedule 1 to the Employment Relations Act 2004 ( minor and consequential amendment ) , omit paragraph 15 . " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment would make administrative provision associate with the function of the Central Arbitration Committee under the new chapter on trade union access right . the CAC would sit as a panel with representation from union and employer in most case , but in certain case decide by the chairman of the CAC , the CAC would sit as a single member . clause 51 - Conditions for trade union recognition Amendment make : 185 , page 69 , line 2 , leave out clause 51 . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on the relevant provision be insert into NS2 . clause 52 - requirement to contribute to Political Fund Amendment propose : 291 , page 71 , line 1 , leave out Clause 52 . — ( Greg Smith . ) Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 164 , Noes 324 . question accordingly negative . amendment make : 186 , page 71 , line 7 , leave out from " for " to " substitute " in line 8 and insert " section 84 ( contribution to political fund from member of a union ) and 84a ( information to member about contribute to political fund ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 189 . amendment 187 , page 71 , leave out line 15 to 25 . this amendment be consequential on amendment 189 . amendment 188 , page 71 , line 33 , leave out from " of " to end of line 34 and insert " four week begin with the day on which an opt - out information notice be give to the member under section 84a , " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 189 and would also require an opt - out notice to be give four week ( rather than one month ) after the opt - out information notice be give where a political resolution be pass for the first time , for the opt out to take effect on the day it be give . amendment 189 , page 72 , leave out line 11 and 12 and insert — " 84a Opt - out information notice ( 1 ) a trade union must give an opt - out information notice to each member of the union — ( a ) within the period of eight week begin with the day after the day on which a political resolution be pass by the member of the union under section 73 , and ( b ) within the period of eight week begin with the end of — ( i ) the period of ten year begin with the day on which a political resolution be pass , and ( ii ) each successive period of ten year , unless during that period of ten year the political resolution be rescind or otherwise cease to have effect . ( 2 ) an " opt - out information notice " be a notice state that — ( a ) each member of the union have the right not to be a contributor to the political fund of the union , and ( b ) a member may exercise that right by give an opt - out notice under section 84 . ( 3 ) an opt - out information notice must be give in accordance with rule of the union approve for the purpose by the Certification Officer . ( 4 ) in decide whether to approve those rule , the Certification Officer must have regard in each case to the exist practice and character of the union . ( 5 ) as soon as be reasonably practicable after the end of any period of eight week within which an opt - out information notice must be give , a trade union must send to the Certification Officer a copy of — ( a ) the opt - out information notice , or ( b ) if there be more than one form of opt - out information notice , each form of notice . ( 6 ) a member of a trade union who claim that the union have fail to comply with this section may complain to the Certification Officer . ( 7 ) where the Certification Officer be satisfied on a complaint under subsection ( 6 ) that a trade union have fail to comply with this section , the Officer may make such order for remedy the failure as the Officer think just under the circumstance . ( 8 ) before decide the matter the Certification Officer — ( a ) may make such enquiry as the Officer think fit ; ( b ) must give the union and the member make the complaint an opportunity to make write representation ; ( c ) may give the union and the member make the complaint an opportunity to make oral representation . ( 9 ) an order make by the Certification Officer under this section may be enforce by the Certification Officer in the same way as an order of the court . " this amendment would require a trade union to give notice to its member every ten year that they have the right to opt out of contribute to the political fund . amendment 190 , page 72 , line 22 , leave out from " section " to " not " in line 24 and insert " 84a ( opt - out information notice ) may provide for opt - out information notice " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 189 . amendment 191 , page 72 , line 27 , leave out from " section " to third " to " in line 28 and insert " 84a ( 1 ) be not to be take to require opt - out information notice " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 189 . clause 58 - industrial action ballot : turnout and support threshold Amendments make : 192 , page 79 , leave out line 3 to 6 . this amendment remove the provision in clause 58 relate to support threshold for industrial action ballot , in order for that provision to appear in a separate clause , NC41 . this be for the purpose of provide for different commencement date for the provision on the turnout threshold ( to be commence by regulation ) and support threshold ( to be commence automatically two month after Royal Assent ) . amendment 193 , page 79 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) in section 231 ( information for member as to result of ballot ) — ( a ) omit paragraph ( a ) ; ( b ) insert " and " at the end of paragraph ( d ) ; ( c ) for paragraph ( e ) ( and the " and " after it ) substitute — " ( e ) the number of spoiled voting paper . " ; ( d ) omit paragraph ( f ) . " see the explanatory statement for amendment 192 . the effect of commence the provision on turnout and support threshold at different time be that the consequential amendment to section 231 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 ( currently in clause 59 ( 3 ) ) need to be make separately ( as they relate to those provision ) when each of those provision be commence . Amendment 194 , page 79 , line 9 , leave out " ( 4 ) , " and insert " ( 4 ) — ( a ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 196 . amendment 195 , page 79 , line 11 , leave out " section 2 and 3 " and insert " section 2 " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 192 . amendment 196 , page 79 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( b ) in section ( industrial action ballot : support threshold ) of this Act , omit subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) . " — ( Justin Madders . ) see the explanatory statement for amendment 192 - once clause 58 be bring into force , the provision in subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) of NC41 ( which will come into force automatically two month after Royal Assent ) will no long be necessary . clause 59 - industrial action ballot : provision of information to member Amendments make : 197 , page 79 , line 14 , leave out from begin to " ( information " in line 16 and insert — " ( 1 ) in section 229 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 198 . amendment 198 , page 79 , line 18 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . this amendment be necessary because amendment to section 231 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 to the same effect will now be contain in clause 58 ( by virtue of amendment 193 ) and NC41 . Amendment 199 , page 79 , line 26 , leave out from " the " to " of " in line 27 and insert — " amendment make by subsection ( 1 ) , omit section 5 " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 198 - because of the need to amend different part of section 231 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 at different time , section 6 of the Trade Union Act 2016 ( which insert most of the current content of section 231 ) will not be repeal . clause 61 - industrial action : provision of information to employer amendment make : 200 , page 80 , line 4 , after " action ) " insert " — ( a ) in subsection ( 3b ) , omit paragraph ( b ) ( but not the " and " after it ) ; ( b ) in subsection ( 3c ) ( b ) , omit the word from " and the number " to " category " ; ( c ) " . this amendment would remove the requirement for a trade union to provide information to an employer ahead of industrial action as to the number of employee in each category that be expect to take part in the action . amendment 201 , page 80 , line 6 , leave out " seventh " and insert " tenth " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment would increase the notice a trade union must give the employer of industrial action from seven day to ten day . Amendment propose : 297 , page 80 , line 6 , leave out " seventh " and insert " fourteenth " . — ( Andrew Griffith . ) this amendment would increase , from seven to 14 day , the notice period that trade union be require to adhere to when notify employer that they plan to take industrial action . question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 167 , Noes 328 . question accordingly negative . More than five hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on consideration , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , 11 March ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . Amendment make : 202 , page 80 , line 8 , leave out " ( 1 ) " and insert " ( 1 ) ( c ) " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 200 . clause 75 - Regulations subject to affirmative resolution procedure Amendments make : 203 , page 89 , leave out line 17 and 18 . this amendment be consequential on amendment 181 . amendment 204 , page 89 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( da ) section 70zia ( enforcement of access agreement : amount payable for breach ) ; " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 182 . clause 77 - Enforcement of labour market legislation by Secretary of State Amendment make : 205 , page 90 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) subsection ( 1 ) do not limit the Secretary of State ' s power under — ( a ) section ( power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal ) ( power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal ) , or ( b ) section ( power to provide legal assistance ) ( power to provide legal assistance ) . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC57 and NC58 . it make it clear that clause 77 ( 1 ) , which set out the Secretary of State ' s general function of enforce the legislation list in Part 1 of Schedule 5 , do not limit what can be do under those new clause ( which apply in relation to a wide category of legislation ) . clause 78 - enforcement function of Secretary of State Amendment make : 206 , page 90 , line 31 , at end insert — " ( ) any function under or by virtue of section ( power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal ) or ( power to provide legal assistance ) ( power in relation to civil proceeding ) ; " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC57 and NC58 . it exclude function under or by virtue of those new clause from be enforcement function of the Secretary of State . clause 79 - delegation of function Amendment make : 207 , page 91 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( ) any function of the Secretary of State by virtue of section ( power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal ) ( power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal ) ; " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment would enable the power confer on the Secretary of State by NC57 to be delegate to a public authority under clause 79 . clause 80 - Advisory Board Amendment make : 208 , page 92 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( ) in addition to the matter refer to in subsection ( 1 ) , the Board may also provide advice to the Secretary of State about such matter as the Secretary of State may specify relate to the Secretary of State ' s function under or by virtue of section ( power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal ) and ( power to provide legal assistance ) ( power in relation to civil proceeding ) . " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC57 and NC58 . it would enable the Advisory Board to provide advice on matter relate to the Secretary of State ' s function under those new clause . clause 81 - labour market enforcement strategy Amendment make : 209 , page 92 , line 25 , after " Parliament " insert " and the Northern Ireland Assembly " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment would require the Secretary of State to lay a copy of the labour market enforcement strategy publish under clause 81 before the Northern Ireland Assembly . clause 82 - Annual report Amendment make : 210 , page 93 , line 9 , after " Parliament " insert " and the Northern Ireland Assembly " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment would require the Secretary of State to lay copy of annual report publish under clause 82 before the Northern Ireland Assembly . clause 101 - evidence of authority Amendment make : 211 , page 104 , line 8 , at end insert " , other than a power by virtue of section ( power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal ) ( power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal ) . " — ( Justin Madders . ) the effect of this amendment be that , where an enforcement officer be exercise a power by virtue of NC57 , the officer do not need to produce identification show that the officer be authorise to do so clause 106 - disclosure of information Amendments make : 212 , page 106 , line 28 , at end insert — " " civil proceeding function " mean a function under or by virtue of section ( power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal ) or ( power to provide legal assistance ) ( power in relation to civil proceeding ) ; " . this amendment and other amendment to this clause be consequential on NC57 and NC58 . they would enable the disclosure of information to an enforce authority for the purpose of exercise function under those new clause . they would also enable information obtain in connection with the exercise of a function under those clause to be use or disclose in accordance with clause 106 . Amendment 213 , page 106 , line 31 , at end insert " ( other than a power by virtue of section ( power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal ) ) . " see the explanatory statement for amendment 212 . amendment 214 , page 106 , line 33 , at end insert " or a civil proceeding function . " see the explanatory statement for amendment 212 . Amendment 215 , page 106 , line 35 , after " function " insert " or a civil proceeding function " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 212 . amendment 216 , page 106 , line 37 , at end insert " or civil proceeding function ; " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 212 . amendment 217 , page 107 , line 3 , after " function " insert " or a civil proceeding function " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 212 . amendment 218 , page 107 , line 4 , after first " function " insert " or civil proceeding function " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 212 . amendment 219 , page 107 , line 7 , after first " function " insert " or a civil proceeding function " . — ( Justin Madders . ) see the explanatory statement for amendment 212 Clause 113 - Offence of obstruction Amendment make : 220 , page 111 , line 6 , at end insert " , other than a power by virtue of section ( power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal ) ( power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal ) . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC57 . it would not be appropriate for the offence of obstruction to apply where an enforcement officer be exercise a power to bring proceeding in an employment tribunal . clause 121 - interpretation : general Amendments make : 221 , page 116 , line 6 , at end insert — " " the liable party " , in relation to a notice of underpayment , have the meaning give by section ( power to give notice of underpayment ) ( 1 ) ; " . this amendment be consequential on NC44 . amendment 222 , page 116 , line 10 , after " 120 ; " insert " and any reference to a failure to comply with relevant labour market legislation be to be read accordingly ; " . this amendment be consequential on NC60 . amendment 223 , page 116 , line 10 , at end insert — " " notice of underpayment " have the meaning give by section ( power to give notice of underpayment ) ( 2 ) ; " . this amendment be consequential on NC44 . amendment 224 , page 116 , line 11 , at end insert — " " the relevant day " , in relation to a notice of underpayment , have the meaning give by section ( power to give notice of underpayment ) ( 1 ) ; " . this amendment be consequential on NC44 . amendment 225 , page 116 , line 15 , at end insert — " " statutory pay provision " have the meaning give by section ( power to give notice of underpayment ) ( 7 ) ; " . this amendment be consequential on NC44 . Amendment 226 , page 116 , line 21 , at end insert — " " underpaid individual " , in relation to a notice of underpayment , have the meaning give by section ( power to give notice of underpayment ) ( 1 ) ; " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC44 . clause 126 - Regulations Amendments make : 227 , page 118 , line 14 , after " State " insert " or the Welsh Ministers " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . Amendment 228 , page 118 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( ) for provision about the making of regulation under this Act by the Scottish Ministers , see section 27 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ( asp 10 ) ( which provide for such regulation to be make by scottish statutory instrument ) . " this amendment be consequential on NC37 . the effect of section 27 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 be that regulation make by the Scottish Ministers under chapter 2 of Part 3 will be make by scottish statutory instrument . amendment 229 , page 118 , line 23 , after " procedure " " insert " — " ( a ) in the case of regulation of the Secretary of State , " this amendment be consequential on amendment 230 . amendment 230 , page 118 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( b ) in the case of regulation of the Welsh Ministers , the statutory instrument contain the regulation be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of Senedd Cymru ; ( c ) in the case of regulation of the Scottish Ministers , the regulation be subject to the negative procedure ( see section 28 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ( asp 10 ) ) . " this amendment be consequential on NC37 . it define what be mean by " negative resolution procedure " for regulation make by the Welsh Ministers or the Scottish Ministers . amendment 231 , page 118 , line 26 , after " procedure " " insert " — ( a ) in the case of regulation of the Secretary of State , " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 232 . amendment 232 , page 118 , line 28 , at end insert — " ( b ) in the case of regulation of the Welsh Ministers , the regulation may not be make unless a draft of the statutory instrument contain they have be lay before , and approve by a resolution of , Senedd Cymru ; ( c ) in the case of regulation of the Scottish Ministers , the regulation be subject to the affirmative procedure ( see section 29 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ( asp 10 ) ) . " this amendment be consequential on NC37 . it define what be mean by " affirmative resolution procedure " for regulation make by the Welsh Ministers or the Scottish Ministers . amendment 233 , page 118 , line 29 , after " include " insert " by a person " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . Amendment 234 , page 118 , line 30 , after " make " insert " by the person " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC37 . clause 128 - Extent Amendment make : 235 , page 119 , line 4 , leave out paragraph ( b ) and ( c ) and insert — " ( b ) in Part 3 — ( i ) chapter 1 extend to England and Wales ; ( ii ) chapter 2 extend to England and Wales and Scotland ; ( iii ) chapter 3 extend to England and Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland ; " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC37 . it provide for chapter 2 to extend to England and Wales and Scotland . clause 129 - Commencement Amendments make : 236 , page 119 , line 28 , at end insert — " ( za ) section ( political fund : requirement to pass political resolution ) ( political fund : requirement to pass political resolution ) ; " . this amendment would bring NC40 into force two month after Royal Assent . amendment 237 , page 119 , line 34 , leave out paragraph ( e ) and insert — " ( e ) section ( industrial action ballot : support threshold ) ( industrial action ballot : support threshold ) ; " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 192 - this amendment together with other will have the effect that the provision about support threshold for industrial action ballot will come into force automatically two month after Royal Assent , whereas the provision about the turnout threshold will come into force by regulation . amendment 238 , page 119 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( ea ) section ( Notice of industrial action ballot and sample voting paper for employer ) ( notice of industrial action ballot and sample voting paper for employer ) ; " . this amendment would bring NC42 into force two month after Royal Assent . amendment 239 , page 119 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( fa ) section ( period after which industrial action ballot cease to be effective ) ( period after which industrial action ballot cease to be effective ) ; " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment would bring NC43 into force two month after Royal Assent . new Schedule 2 - Trade union recognition " Part 1 - introduction 1 schedule a1 to the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend in accordance with Parts 2 to 5 of this Schedule . 2 part 6 of this Schedule contain consequential amendment to the Employment Relations Act 2004 . part 2 - Recognition Meaning of " the application day " 3 in paragraph 2 ( interpretation of Part 1 of Schedule A1 ) , after sub - paragraph ( 5 ) insert — " ( 6 ) in relation to an application under paragraph 11 or 12 , a reference to the application day be to the day on which the CAC receive the application . " Acceptance of application 4 ( 1 ) paragraph 14 ( acceptance of application : multiple application ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) , any worker who join any of the relevant bargaining unit after the application day be to be disregard . " ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) , for " 10 per cent test " substitute " require percentage test " . ( 4 ) in sub - paragraph ( 5 ) — ( a ) for " 10 per cent test " substitute " require percentage test " ; ( b ) for " at least 10 per cent " substitute " at least the require percentage ( see paragraph 171B ) " . ( 5 ) after sub - paragraph ( 5 ) insert — " ( 5a ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 5 ) , any worker who join the relevant bargaining unit after the application day be to be disregard . " ( 6 ) in sub - paragraph ( 7 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( a ) , for " 10 per cent test " substitute " require percentage test " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " 10 per cent test " substitute " require percentage test " . ( 7 ) in sub - paragraph ( 8 ) , for " 10 per cent test " substitute " require percentage test " . Withdrawal of application 5 in paragraph 16 ( withdrawal of application ) , in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) , after " 19f ( 5 ) " insert " , 19 k ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , 19p ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) " . notice to cease consideration of application 6 in paragraph 17 ( notice to cease consideration of application ) , in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( a ) , after " 19f ( 5 ) " insert " , 19 k ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , 19p ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) " . communication with worker through independent person after application 7 ( 1 ) paragraph 19c ( appointment of independent person to handle communication between union and worker ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after sub - paragraph ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) an application under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) be valid only if it be make before the end of the period of 5 work day start with the day after the day on which the CAC give the union ( or union ) notice under paragraph 15 ( 5 ) that the application mention in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) be accept . " ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 5 ) ( c ) , after " 19f ( 5 ) " insert " , 19 k ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , 19p ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) " . ( 4 ) in sub - paragraph ( 7 ) , for " an application " substitute " a valid application " . access agreement 8 after paragraph 19f insert — " access agreement 19 g ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the CAC accept an application under paragraph 11 ( 2 ) or 12 ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) , and ( b ) the application be in progress . ( 2 ) the union ( or union ) may , by give notice to the CAC and the employer within the access request period , request access to the relevant worker in connection with the application . ( 3 ) in the case of an application under paragraph 11 ( 2 ) or 12 ( 2 ) , the relevant worker be — ( a ) in relation to any time before an appropriate bargaining unit be agree by the party or decide by the CAC , those fall within the propose bargaining unit , and ( b ) in relation to any time after an appropriate bargaining unit be so agree or decide , those fall within the bargaining unit agree or decide upon . ( 4 ) in the case of an application under paragraph 12 ( 4 ) , the relevant worker be those fall within the bargaining unit agree by the party . ( 5 ) the access request period be the period of 5 work day start with the day after the day on which the CAC give the union ( or union ) notice under paragraph 15 ( 5 ) that the application be accept . ( 6 ) for the purpose of this paragraph and paragraph 19h to 19 k , an application under paragraph 11 or 12 be in progress if none of the following have occur — ( a ) the withdrawal of the application ; ( b ) the CAC give notice to the union ( or union ) of a decision under paragraph 20 that the application be invalid ; ( c ) the CAC give notice to the union ( or union ) of a declaration issue under paragraph 19f ( 5 ) , 19 k ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , 19p ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , 22 ( 2 ) or 27 ( 2 ) in relation to the application ; ( d ) the holding of any ballot arise from the application . 19h ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the CAC accept an application under paragraph 11 ( 2 ) or 12 ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) , ( b ) the union request ( or union request ) access to the relevant worker under paragraph 19 g ( 2 ) in connection with the application , and ( c ) the application be in progress . ( 2 ) the CAC must try to help the party to reach agreement within the negotiation period as to term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the relevant worker . ( 3 ) the negotiation period be , subject to any notice under sub - paragraph ( 4 ) or ( 6 ) , the period of 15 working day start with the day after the day on which the union give ( or union give ) notice to the employer under paragraph 19 g ( 2 ) . ( 4 ) if , during the negotiation period , the CAC conclude that there be no reasonable prospect of the party ' agree term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the relevant worker before the time when ( apart from this sub - paragraph ) the negotiation period would end , the CAC may , by a notice give to the party , declare that the negotiation period end with the date of the notice . ( 5 ) a notice under sub - paragraph ( 4 ) must contain reason for reach the conclusion mention in that sub - paragraph . ( 6 ) if , during the negotiation period , the party apply to the CAC for a declaration that the negotiation period be to end with a date ( specify in the application ) which be early or later than the date with which it would otherwise end , the CAC may , by a notice give to the party , declare that the negotiation period end with the specify date . 19i ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the CAC accept an application under paragraph 11 ( 2 ) or 12 ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) , ( b ) the union request ( or union request ) access to the relevant worker under paragraph 19 g ( 2 ) in connection with the application , ( c ) the party have not within the negotiation period agree term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the relevant worker , and ( d ) the application be in progress . ( 2 ) within the adjudication period , the CAC must — ( a ) decide the term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the relevant worker , or ( b ) decide that the union be ( or union be ) not to have access to the relevant worker . ( 3 ) the adjudication period be — ( a ) the period of 10 working day start with the day after the day with which the negotiation period end , or ( b ) such long period ( so start ) as the CAC may specify to the party by notice contain reason for the extension . ( 4 ) any term decide by the CAC must be term that the CAC regard as allow such access to the relevant worker as be reasonable to enable the union ( or union ) to — ( a ) inform the worker of the object of the application or any ballot arise from it , and ( b ) seek their support and their opinion on the issue involve . 19J ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) an access agreement be enter into , and ( b ) the application under paragraph 11 or 12 be in progress . ( 2 ) " access agreement " mean — ( a ) term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the relevant worker and which be agree between the party under paragraph 19h during the negotiation period , or ( b ) term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the relevant worker and which be decide by the CAC under paragraph 19i , and such an agreement be " enter into " when the term be so agree or decide . ( 3 ) the party must comply with the access agreement . ( 4 ) the employer must refrain from make any offer to any or all of the relevant worker which — ( a ) have or be likely to have the effect of induce any or all of they not to attend any relevant meeting between the union ( or union ) and the relevant worker , and ( b ) be not reasonable in the circumstance . ( 5 ) the employer must refrain from take , or threaten to take , any action against a worker solely or mainly on the ground that the worker — ( a ) attend or take part in any relevant meeting between the union ( or union ) and the relevant worker , or ( b ) indicate an intention to attend or take part in such a meeting . ( 6 ) in the case of an application under paragraph 11 ( 2 ) or 12 ( 2 ) , the relevant worker be — ( a ) in relation to any time before an appropriate bargaining unit be agree by the party or decide by the CAC , those fall within the propose bargaining unit , and ( b ) in relation to any time after an appropriate bargaining unit be so agree or decide , those fall within the bargaining unit agree or decide upon . ( 7 ) in the case of an application under paragraph 12 ( 4 ) , the relevant worker be those fall within the bargaining unit agree by the party . ( 8 ) a meeting be a relevant meeting in relation to a worker for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) if — ( a ) it be organise in accordance with an access agreement or as a result of a step order to be take under paragraph 19 k to remedy a failure to comply with the duty in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , and ( b ) it be one which the employer be , by such an agreement or order as be mention in paragraph ( a ) , require to permit the worker to attend . ( 9 ) the duty impose by sub - paragraph ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) do not confer any right on a worker ; but that do not affect any other right which a worker may have . ( 10 ) any provision of an access agreement that would require personal datum relate to any of the relevant worker to be disclose to any person who be not an appoint person be of no effect for the purpose of this Part of this Schedule . ( 11 ) in sub - paragraph ( 10 ) — ( a ) " appoint person " mean — ( i ) a person appoint to handle communication under paragraph 19c , or ( ii ) a person appoint to conduct a ballot under paragraph 25 ; ( b ) " personal datum " have the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 of that Act ) . ( 12 ) an access agreement be to be conclusively presume not to have be intend by the party to be a legally enforceable contract ; and , accordingly , where an access agreement be , or be part of , a collective agreement , section 179 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) ( a ) do not apply to the access agreement . 19 k ( 1 ) sub - paragraph ( 2 ) apply if — ( a ) the CAC be satisfied that a party have fail to fulfil any of the duty impose on that party by paragraph 19j , and ( b ) the application under paragraph 11 or 12 be in progress . ( 2 ) the CAC may order the party — ( a ) to take such step to remedy the failure as the CAC consider reasonable and specifie in the order , and ( b ) to do so within such period as the CAC consider reasonable and specifie in the order . ( 3 ) sub - paragraph ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) apply if — ( a ) the CAC be satisfied that a party have fail to comply with an order under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , ( b ) the application under paragraph 11 or 12 be in progress , ( c ) the party have agree an appropriate bargaining unit or the CAC have decide an appropriate bargaining unit , and ( d ) in the case of an application under paragraph 11 ( 2 ) or 12 ( 2 ) , the CAC , if require to do so , have decide under paragraph 20 that the application be not invalid . ( 4 ) if the party that have fail to comply be the employer , the CAC may issue a declaration that the union be ( or union be ) recognise as entitle to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of the bargaining unit . ( 5 ) if the party that have fail to comply be a union , the CAC may issue a declaration that the union be ( or union be ) not entitle to be so recognised . 19l ( 1 ) each of the power specify in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) be to be take to include power to issue Codes of Practice about any matter relate to request for access under paragraph 19 g ( 2 ) , include ( among other thing ) — ( a ) what access be reasonable for the purpose of paragraph 19i ( 4 ) ; ( b ) the duty in paragraph 19j ( 4 ) . ( 2 ) the power be — ( a ) the power of ACAS under section 199 ( 1 ) ; ( b ) the power of the Secretary of State under section 203 ( 1 ) ( a ) . " unfair practice 9 after paragraph 19l ( insert by paragraph 8 of this Schedule ) insert — " Unfair practice 19 M ( 1 ) each of the party inform by the CAC under paragraph 15 ( 5 ) that an application under paragraph 11 or 12 be accept must refrain from use any unfair practice in relation to the application . ( 2 ) a party use an unfair practice if , with a view to influence the outcome of the application , the party do any of the following — ( a ) dismisse , or threaten to dismiss , a worker ; ( b ) take , or threaten to take , disciplinary action against a worker ; ( c ) subject , or threaten to subject , a worker to any other detriment ; ( d ) offer to pay money , or give money ' s worth , to a relevant worker in return for the worker ' s agreement to vote in a particular way , or to abstain from vote , in a relevant ballot ; ( e ) make an outcome - specific offer to a relevant worker ; ( f ) coerce , or attempt to coerce , a relevant worker to disclose — ( i ) whether the worker intend to vote , or to abstain from vote , in any relevant ballot , or ( ii ) how the worker intend to vote , or have vote , in any relevant ballot ; ( g ) use , or attempt to use , undue influence on a relevant worker . ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) " relevant ballot " mean any ballot that be or may be hold in which worker be ask whether they want the union ( or union ) to conduct collective bargaining on their behalf , and ( b ) " relevant worker " mean any worker who be or would be entitle to vote in a relevant ballot . ( 4 ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( e ) an " outcome - specific offer " be an offer to pay money , or give money ' s worth , which — ( a ) be conditional on the issuing by the CAC of a declaration that — ( i ) the union be ( or union be ) recognise as entitle to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of a bargaining unit , or ( ii ) the union be ( or union be ) not entitle to be so recognised , and ( b ) be not conditional on anything which be do or occur as a result of the declaration in question . ( 5 ) the duty impose by this paragraph do not confer any right on a worker ; but that do not affect any other right which a worker may have . ( 6 ) each of the follow power be to be take to include power to issue Codes of Practice about unfair practice for the purpose of this paragraph — ( a ) the power of ACAS under section 199 ( 1 ) ; ( b ) the power of the Secretary of State under section 203 ( 1 ) ( a ) . 19n ( 1 ) a party may complain to the CAC that another party have fail to comply with paragraph 19 M . ( 2 ) a complaint under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) may not be make after — ( a ) the application under paragraph 11 or 12 be withdraw ; ( b ) the CAC give notice to the union ( or union ) of a decision under paragraph 20 that the application be invalid ; ( c ) the CAC notifie the union ( or union ) of a declaration issue under paragraph 19f ( 5 ) , 19 k ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , 19p ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , 22 ( 2 ) or 27 ( 2 ) in relation to the application ; ( d ) if the CAC inform the union ( or union ) under paragraph 25 ( 9 ) of a ballot in relation to the application , the fifth work day after — ( i ) the date of the ballot , or ( ii ) if vote may be cast in the ballot on more than one day , the last of those day . ( 3 ) within the decision period the CAC must decide whether the complaint be well - found . ( 4 ) a complaint be well - found if the CAC find that the party complain against use an unfair practice . ( 5 ) the decision period be — ( a ) the period of 10 working day start with the day after the day on which the complaint under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) be receive by the CAC , or ( b ) such long period ( so start ) as the CAC may specify to the party by a notice contain reason for the extension . 19o ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if the CAC decide that a complaint under paragraph 19n be well - found . ( 2 ) the CAC must , as soon as be reasonably practicable , issue a declaration to that effect . ( 3 ) the CAC may order the party concern to take any action specify in the order within such period as may be so specified . ( 4 ) sub - paragraph ( 5 ) apply if — ( a ) the party have agree an appropriate bargaining unit or the CAC have decide an appropriate bargaining unit , and ( b ) the CAC have at any time inform the union ( or union ) under paragraph 25 ( 9 ) of a ballot in relation to the application ( include a ballot that be cancel or be ineffective ) . ( 5 ) the CAC may give notice to the employer and to the union ( or union ) that it intend to arrange for the holding of a secret ballot in which the worker constitute the bargaining unit , other than those who join the bargaining unit after the application day , be ask whether they want the union ( or union ) to conduct collective bargaining on their behalf . ( 6 ) the CAC may make an order under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , or give a notice under sub - paragraph ( 5 ) , either at the same time as it issue the declaration under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) or at any other time before any of the follow occur — ( a ) the withdrawal of the application under paragraph 11 or 12 ; ( b ) the CAC give notice to the union ( or union ) of a decision under paragraph 20 that the application be invalid ; ( c ) the CAC notify the union ( or union ) of a declaration issue under paragraph 19f ( 5 ) , 19 k ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , 19p ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , 22 ( 2 ) or 27 ( 2 ) in relation to the application ; ( d ) if the CAC inform the union ( or union ) under paragraph 25 ( 9 ) of a ballot in relation to the application , the CAC act under paragraph 29 in relation to the ballot . ( 7 ) the action specify in an order under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) must be such as the CAC consider reasonable in order to mitigate the effect of the failure of the party concern to comply with the duty impose by paragraph 19 M . ( 8 ) the CAC may make more than one order under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) . 19p ( 1 ) sub - paragraph ( 4 ) to ( 6 ) apply if — ( a ) the CAC issue a declaration under paragraph 19o ( 2 ) that a complaint that a party have fail to comply with paragraph 19 M be well - found , ( b ) the application under paragraph 11 or 12 have not be withdraw , ( c ) the party have agree an appropriate bargaining unit or the CAC have decide an appropriate bargaining unit , ( d ) in the case of an application under paragraph 11 ( 2 ) or 12 ( 2 ) , the CAC , if require to do so , have decide under paragraph 20 that the application be not invalid , ( e ) the CAC have not notify the union ( or union ) of a declaration issue under paragraph 19f ( 5 ) , 19 k ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , 19p ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , 22 ( 2 ) or 27 ( 2 ) in relation to the application , and ( f ) sub - paragraph ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) apply . ( 2 ) this sub - paragraph apply if the declaration state that the unfair practice use consist of or include — ( a ) the use of violence , or ( b ) the dismissal of a union official . ( 3 ) this sub - paragraph apply if the CAC have make an order under paragraph 19o ( 3 ) and — ( a ) it be satisfied that the party subject to the order have fail to comply with it , or ( b ) it make another declaration under paragraph 19o ( 2 ) in relation to a complaint against that party . ( 4 ) if the party that have fail to comply be the employer , the CAC may issue a declaration that the union be ( or union be ) recognise as entitle to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of the bargaining unit . ( 5 ) if the party that have fail to comply be a union , the CAC may issue a declaration that the union be ( or union be ) not entitle to be so recognised . ( 6 ) the power confer by this paragraph be in addition to those confer by paragraph 19o . " power of CAC on proceed with application 10 ( 1 ) paragraph 22 ( power of CAC where majority of worker be member of union ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) , after " 19f ( 5 ) " insert " , 19 k ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) or 19p ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) " . ( 3 ) after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) , any worker who join the bargaining unit after the application day be to be disregard . " ( 4 ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , after " bargaining unit " insert " , other than those who join the bargaining unit after the application day , " . ( 5 ) after sub - paragraph ( 4 ) insert — " ( 4A ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 4 ) ( b ) and ( c ) , evidence from or relate to a worker who join the bargaining unit after the application day be to be disregard . " 11 ( 1 ) paragraph 23 ( CAC to order ballot where majority of worker be not member of union ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) , after " 19f ( 5 ) " insert " , 19 k ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) or 19p ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) " . ( 3 ) after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) , any worker who join the bargaining unit after the application day be to be disregard . " ( 4 ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , after " bargaining unit " insert " , other than those who join the bargaining unit after the application day , " . ballot 12 ( 1 ) paragraph ( 1 ) 24 ( notice of holding of ballot ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , after " paragraph " insert " 19o ( 5 ) , " . ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 5 ) — ( a ) before paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( za ) in the case of notice give under paragraph 19o ( 5 ) , the period of 5 work day start with the day on which the union ( or the last of the union ) receive that notice , " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( a ) — ( i ) at the beginning insert " in the case of notice give under paragraph 22 ( 3 ) or 23 ( 2 ) , " ; ( ii ) for the word from " the CAC ' s notice " to the end substitute " that notice " ; ( c ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " so start " substitute " start with the day mention in paragraph ( za ) or ( a ) ( as the case may be ) " . ( 4 ) in sub - paragraph ( 6 ) — ( a ) before paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( za ) in the case of notice give under paragraph 19o ( 5 ) , the period of 5 work day start with the day on which the union ( or the last of the union ) receive that notice , " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( a ) — ( i ) at the beginning insert " in the case of notice give under paragraph 22 ( 3 ) or 23 ( 2 ) , " ; ( ii ) for the word from " the CAC ' s notice " to the end substitute " that notice " ; ( c ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " so start " substitute " start with the day mention in paragraph ( za ) or ( a ) ( as the case may be ) " . 13 in paragraph 25 ( rule relate to ballot ) , after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) a worker who join the bargaining unit after the application day be not eligible to vote in the ballot . " 14 ( 1 ) paragraph 26 ( duty ( 1 ) of employer in relation to ballot ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , omit " five " . ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) for " the first duty be to " substitute " the employer must " ; ( b ) for " the second and third duty be not " substitute " no other duty of the employer under this part of this Schedule be " . ( 4 ) omit sub - paragraph ( 3 ) . ( 5 ) in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) — ( a ) in the word before paragraph ( a ) , for " the third duty be to " substitute " the employer must " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( a ) — ( i ) for " to give " substitute " give " ; ( ii ) for " constitute the bargaining unit " substitute " eligible to vote in the ballot " ; ( c ) omit paragraph ( b ) ; ( d ) in paragraph ( c ) — ( i ) for " to inform " substitute " inform " ; ( ii ) omit " or ( b ) " . ( 6 ) after sub - paragraph ( 4 ) insert — " ( 4za ) if the ballot be be hold by virtue of paragraph 19o ( 5 ) , the duty under sub - paragraph ( 4 ) ( a ) be limit to — ( a ) give the CAC the name and home address of any worker eligible to vote in the ballot which have not previously be give to it in accordance with that duty ; ( b ) inform the CAC of any change to the name or home address of a worker whose name and home address have previously be give to the CAC in accordance with that duty ; ( c ) inform the CAC of any worker whose name have previously be give to it in accordance with that duty who have cease to be within the bargaining unit . " ( 7 ) omit sub - paragraph ( 4A ) to ( 4e ) , ( 4 g ) , ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) . 15 after paragraph 27 insert — " 27za ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the union have ( or union have ) be inform of a ballot under paragraph 25 ( 9 ) , and ( b ) the CAC issue a declaration under paragraph 19 k . ( 2 ) if the ballot have not be hold , the CAC must take step to cancel it . ( 3 ) if the ballot be hold , it be to have no effect . 27zb ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the union have ( or union have ) be inform of a ballot under paragraph 25 ( 9 ) , ( b ) a complaint be make under paragraph 19n , and ( c ) the ballot do not begin before the beginning of the decision period refer to in paragraph 19n ( 5 ) . ( 2 ) the CAC may by notice to the party and the qualified independent person postpone the date on which the ballot be to begin until a date which fall after the end of the decision period . 27zc ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the union have ( or union have ) be inform of a ballot under paragraph 25 ( 9 ) , ( b ) the CAC issue a declaration that a complaint under paragraph 19n be well - found , and ( c ) the CAC — ( i ) give a notice under paragraph 19o ( 5 ) , or ( ii ) issue a declaration under paragraph 19p ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) . ( 2 ) if the ballot have not be hold , the CAC must take step to cancel it . ( 3 ) if the ballot be hold , it be to have no effect . 27zd ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the CAC give a notice under paragraph 19o ( 5 ) , and ( b ) the CAC have previously make an order under paragraph 27 ( 1 ) in relation to a cancel or ineffective ballot in connection with the application to which the notice relate . ( 2 ) the order have effect , to the extent that the CAC specifie in a notice to the party , as if it be make for the purpose of the ballot to which the notice under paragraph 19o ( 5 ) relate . " 16 Omit paragraph 27a to 27f ( unfair practice during ballot ) . 17 ( 1 ) paragraph 28 ( cost of ballot ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) if the ballot be one to which a notice under paragraph 19o ( 5 ) relate , the gross cost of the ballot be to be bear by such of the party and in such proportion as the CAC may determine . " ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , for " the gross cost " substitute " if the ballot be one to which a notice under paragraph 22 ( 3 ) or 23 ( 2 ) relate , the gross cost " . ( 4 ) in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) , for " the employer and the union ( or each of the union ) " substitute " the party or party require to bear the cost " . 18 ( 1 ) paragraph 29 ( result of ballot ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for sub - paragraph ( 1 ) and ( 1A ) substitute — " ( 1 ) the CAC must act under this paragraph as soon as reasonably practicable after — ( a ) the CAC be inform of the result of a ballot by the person conduct it , and ( b ) the complaint period end . ( 1za ) the complaint period be the period of 5 work day start with the day after — ( a ) the day of the ballot , or ( b ) if vote may be cast in the ballot on more than one day , the last of those day . ( 1A ) the duty in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) do not apply — ( a ) if a complaint be make under paragraph 19n , on or before the day on which the CAC decide whether the complaint be well - found ; ( b ) if the CAC give a notice under paragraph 19o ( 5 ) . " ( 3 ) for sub - paragraph ( 3 ) substitute — " ( 3 ) if the result be that the union be ( or union be ) support by a majority of the worker vote , the CAC must issue a declaration that the union be ( or union be ) recognise as entitle to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of the bargaining unit . " ( 4 ) omit sub - paragraph ( 5 ) to ( 7 ) . general provision about admissibility of application 19 ( 1 ) paragraph 35 ( admissibility of application : exist collective agreement ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , any worker who join the relevant bargaining unit after the application day be to be disregard . " ( 3 ) after sub - paragraph ( 5 ) insert — " ( 5A ) in apply sub - paragraph ( 1 ) an agreement for recognition ( the agreement in question ) must be ignore if — ( a ) the union recognise under the agreement in question do not have ( or none of the union recognise under the agreement in question have ) a certificate of independence , ( b ) the union ( or union ) make the application under paragraph 11 or 12 make the application before the end of the period of reflection , and ( c ) the agreement in question be enter into during the restricted period . ( 5b ) the period of reflection be the period of 20 working day start with the first day after the end of — ( a ) the first period refer to in paragraph 10 ( 6 ) , in the case of an application under paragraph 11 , or ( b ) the second period refer to in paragraph 10 ( 7 ) , in the case of an application under paragraph 12 . ( 5c ) the restricted period be the period — ( a ) start with the day on which the employer receive a valid request for recognition under paragraph 4 , and ( b ) end with the day on which the CAC make a decision under paragraph 15 . " 20 in paragraph 36 ( admissibility of application : minimum support ) , for sub - paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) an application under paragraph 11 or 12 be not admissible unless the CAC decide that member of the union ( or union ) constitute at least the require percentage ( see paragraph 171B ) of the worker constitute the relevant bargaining unit . ( 1A ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , any worker who join the relevant bargaining unit after the application day be to be disregard . " 21 ( 1 ) paragraph 38 ( admissibility of application : overlap bargaining unit ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( d ) — ( a ) after " 19f ( 5 ) , " insert " 19 k ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , 19p ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , " ; ( b ) omit " 27d ( 3 ) , 27d ( 4 ) , " . ( 3 ) after sub - paragraph ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) , any worker who join the relevant bargaining unit or the bargaining unit refer to in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) after the application day be to be disregard . " 22 in paragraph 40 ( admissibility of application : union not entitle to be recognise ) , in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) — ( a ) for " 27d ( 4 ) " substitute " 19 k ( 5 ) , 19p ( 5 ) " ; ( b ) omit the word from " ; and this be so " to the end . 23 after paragraph 40 insert — " 40a ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if the CAC issue a declaration under paragraph 81e ( 5 ) , 81j ( 5 ) or 29 ( 4 ) ( where it apply by virtue of paragraph 89 ( 5 ) ) that a union be ( or union be ) not entitle to be recognise as entitle to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of a bargaining unit . ( 2 ) an application under paragraph 11 or 12 be not admissible if — ( a ) the application be make within the period of 3 year start with the day after the day on which the declaration be issue , ( b ) the relevant bargaining unit be the same or substantially the same as the bargaining unit mention in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , and ( c ) the application be make by the union ( or union ) which make the application lead to the declaration . ( 3 ) the relevant bargaining unit be — ( a ) the propose bargaining unit , where the application be under paragraph 11 ( 2 ) or 12 ( 2 ) ; ( b ) the agree bargaining unit , where the application be under paragraph 12 ( 4 ) . " 24 in paragraph 41 ( admissibility of application : union require to cease bargaining arrangement ) , in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) — ( a ) for " 119D ( 4 ) , 119h ( 5 ) " substitute " 116E ( 5 ) , 116j ( 5 ) " ; ( b ) for " the ballot concern be arrange " substitute " the declaration be issue " . general provision about validity of application 25 ( 1 ) paragraph 44 ( validity of application : exist collective agreement ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , any worker who join the relevant bargaining unit after the application day be to be disregard . " ( 3 ) after sub - paragraph ( 5 ) insert — " ( 6 ) in apply sub - paragraph ( 1 ) an agreement for recognition ( the agreement in question ) must be ignore if — ( a ) the union recognise under the agreement in question do not have ( or none of the union recognise under the agreement in question have ) a certificate of independence , ( b ) the union ( or union ) make the application under paragraph 11 or 12 make the application before the end of the period of reflection , and ( c ) the agreement in question be enter into during the restricted period . ( 7 ) the period of reflection be the period of 20 working day start with the first day after the end of — ( a ) the first period refer to in paragraph 10 ( 6 ) , in the case of an application under paragraph 11 , or ( b ) the second period refer to in paragraph 10 ( 7 ) , in the case of an application under paragraph 12 . ( 8 ) the restricted period be the period — ( a ) start with the day on which the employer receive a valid request for recognition under paragraph 4 , and ( b ) end with the day on which the CAC make a decision under paragraph 20 . " 26 for paragraph 45 ( validity of application : minimum support ) substitute — " 45 ( 1 ) the application in question be invalid unless the CAC decide that member of the union ( or union ) constitute at least the require percentage ( see paragraph 171B ) of the worker constitute the relevant bargaining unit . ( 2 ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , any worker who join the relevant bargaining unit after the application day be to be disregard . " 27 ( 1 ) paragraph 46 ( validity of application : overlap bargaining unit ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( d ) — ( a ) after " 19f ( 5 ) , " insert " 19 k ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , 19p ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , " ; ( b ) omit " 27d ( 3 ) , 27d ( 4 ) , " . ( 3 ) after sub - paragraph ( 2 ) insert — " ( 3 ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) , any worker who join the relevant bargaining unit or the bargaining unit refer to in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) after the application day be to be disregard . " 28 in paragraph 48 ( validity of application : union not entitle to be recognise ) , in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) — ( a ) for " 27d ( 4 ) " substitute " 19 k ( 5 ) , 19p ( 5 ) " ; ( b ) omit the word from " ; and this be so " to the end . 29 after paragraph 48 insert — " 48a ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if the CAC issue a declaration under paragraph 81e ( 5 ) , 81j ( 5 ) or 29 ( 4 ) ( where it apply by virtue of paragraph 89 ( 5 ) ) that a union be ( or union be ) not entitle to be recognise as entitle to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of a bargaining unit . ( 2 ) the application in question be invalid if — ( a ) the application be make within the period of 3 year start with the date of the declaration , ( b ) the relevant bargaining unit be the same or substantially the same as the bargaining unit mention in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , and ( c ) the application be make by the union ( or union ) which make the application lead to the declaration . " 30 in paragraph 49 ( validity of application : union require to cease bargaining arrangement ) , in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) — ( a ) for " 119D ( 4 ) , 119h ( 5 ) " substitute " 116E ( 5 ) , 116j ( 5 ) " ; ( b ) for " the ballot concern be arrange " substitute " the declaration be issue " . compete application 31 in paragraph 51 ( compete application ) , in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( c ) , for " 10 per cent test " substitute " require percentage test " . voluntary recognition 32 in paragraph 52 ( voluntary recognition ) , in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( f ) , after " 19f ( 5 ) " insert " , 19 k ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , 19p ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) " . part 3 - change affect bargaining unit after recognition Access agreement 33 after paragraph 81 insert — " access agreement 81a ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the CAC accept an application under paragraph 66 or 75 , and ( b ) the application be in progress . ( 2 ) the union ( or union ) may , by give notice to the CAC and the employer within the access request period , request access to the relevant worker in connection with the application . ( 3 ) the relevant worker be — ( a ) in relation to any time before the CAC decide that a bargaining unit other than the original unit be an appropriate bargaining unit , the worker constitute the original unit , and ( b ) in relation to any time after the CAC decide that a bargaining unit other than the original unit be an appropriate bargaining unit , the worker constitute the new unit ( see paragraph 82 ( 4 ) ) . ( 4 ) but , where there be more than one new unit , reference to the relevant worker be reference to the worker constitute each new unit separately . ( 5 ) the access request period be the period of 5 work day start with the day after the day on which the CAC give the union ( or union ) notice under paragraph 68 ( 5 ) or 76 ( 5 ) that the application be accept . ( 6 ) for the purpose of this paragraph and paragraph 81b to 81e , an application under paragraph 66 or 75 be in progress if none of the following have occur — ( a ) the withdrawal of the application ; ( b ) the CAC issue a declaration under paragraph 69 ( 3 ) , 78 ( 3 ) , 81e ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) or 81j ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) in relation to the application ; ( c ) the CAC notify the union ( or union ) of its decision under paragraph 77 ( 2 ) or 77 ( 3 ) ; ( d ) in relation to the new unit ( or , if there be more than one , all of the new unit ) — ( i ) the CAC issue a declaration under paragraph 83 ( 2 ) , 85 ( 2 ) , 86 ( 3 ) or 87 ( 2 ) , or under paragraph 27 ( 2 ) ( where it apply by virtue of paragraph 89 ( 5 ) ) , ( ii ) the union ( or union ) notify the CAC under paragraph 89 ( 1 ) , or ( iii ) the holding of any ballot arise from the application . 81b ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the CAC accept an application under paragraph 66 or 75 , ( b ) the union request ( or union request ) access to the relevant worker under paragraph 81a ( 2 ) in connection with the application , and ( c ) the application be in progress . ( 2 ) the CAC must try to help the party to reach agreement within the negotiation period as to term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the relevant worker . ( 3 ) the negotiation period be , subject to any notice under sub - paragraph ( 4 ) or ( 6 ) , the period of 15 working day start with the day after the day on which the union give ( or union give ) notice to the employer under paragraph 81a ( 2 ) . ( 4 ) if , during the negotiation period , the CAC conclude that there be no reasonable prospect of the party ' agree term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the relevant worker before the time when ( apart from this sub - paragraph ) the negotiation period would end , the CAC may , by a notice give to the party , declare that the negotiation period end with the date of the notice . ( 5 ) a notice under sub - paragraph ( 4 ) must contain reason for reach the conclusion mention in that sub - paragraph . ( 6 ) if , during the negotiation period , the party apply to the CAC for a declaration that the negotiation period be to end with a date ( specify in the application ) which be early or later than the date with which it would otherwise end , the CAC may , by a notice give to the party , declare that the negotiation period end with the specify date . 81C ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the CAC accept an application under paragraph 66 or 75 , ( b ) the union request ( or union request ) access to the relevant worker under paragraph 81a ( 2 ) in connection with the application , ( c ) the party have not within the negotiation period agree term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the relevant worker , and ( d ) the application be in progress . ( 2 ) within the adjudication period , the CAC must — ( a ) decide the term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the relevant worker , or ( b ) decide that the union be ( or union be ) not to have access to the relevant worker . ( 3 ) the adjudication period be — ( a ) the period of 10 working day start with the day after the day with which the negotiation period end , or ( b ) such long period ( so start ) as the CAC may specify to the party by notice contain reason for the extension . ( 4 ) any term decide by the CAC must be term that the CAC regard as allow such access to the relevant worker as be reasonable to enable the union ( or union ) to — ( a ) inform the worker of the object of the application or any ballot arise from it , and ( b ) seek their support and their opinion on the issue involve . 81d ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) an access agreement be enter into , and ( b ) the application under paragraph 66 or 75 be in progress . ( 2 ) " access agreement " mean — ( a ) term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the relevant worker and which be agree between the party under paragraph 81b during the negotiation period , or ( b ) term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the relevant worker and which be decide by the CAC under paragraph 81c , and such an agreement be " enter into " when the term be so agree or decide . ( 3 ) the party must comply with the access agreement . ( 4 ) the employer must refrain from make any offer to any or all of the relevant worker which — ( a ) have or be likely to have the effect of induce any or all of they not to attend any relevant meeting between the union ( or union ) and the relevant worker , and ( b ) be not reasonable in the circumstance . ( 5 ) the employer must refrain from take , or threaten to take , any action against a worker solely or mainly on the ground that the worker — ( a ) attend or take part in any relevant meeting between the union ( or union ) and the relevant worker , or ( b ) indicate an intention to attend or take part in such a meeting . ( 6 ) the relevant worker be — ( a ) in relation to any time before the CAC decide that a bargaining unit other than the original unit be an appropriate bargaining unit , the worker constitute the original unit , and ( b ) in relation to any time after the CAC decide that a bargaining unit other than the original unit be an appropriate bargaining unit , the worker constitute the new unit ( see paragraph 82 ( 4 ) ) . ( 7 ) but , where there be more than one new unit , reference to the relevant worker be reference to the worker constitute each new unit separately . ( 8 ) a meeting be a relevant meeting in relation to a worker for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) if — ( a ) it be organise in accordance with an access agreement or as a result of a step order to be take under paragraph 81e to remedy a failure to comply with the duty in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , and ( b ) it be one which the employer be , by such an agreement or order as be mention in paragraph ( a ) , require to permit the worker to attend . ( 9 ) the duty impose by sub - paragraph ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) do not confer any right on a worker ; but that do not affect any other right which a worker may have . ( 10 ) any provision of an access agreement that would require personal datum relate to any of the relevant worker to be disclose to any person other than a person appoint to conduct a ballot under paragraph 25 ( where it apply by virtue of paragraph 89 ( 4 ) ) be of no effect for the purpose of this Part of this Schedule . ( 11 ) " personal datum " have the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 of that Act ) . ( 12 ) an access agreement be to be conclusively presume not to have be intend by the party to be a legally enforceable contract ; and , accordingly , where an access agreement be , or be part of , a collective agreement , section 179 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) ( a ) do not apply to the access agreement . 81e ( 1 ) sub - paragraph ( 2 ) apply if — ( a ) the CAC be satisfied that a party have fail to fulfil any of the duty impose on that party by paragraph 81d , and ( b ) the application under paragraph 66 or 75 be in progress . ( 2 ) the CAC may order the party — ( a ) to take such step to remedy the failure as the CAC consider reasonable and specifie in the order , and ( b ) to do so within such period as the CAC consider reasonable and specifie in the order . ( 3 ) sub - paragraph ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) apply if — ( a ) the CAC be satisfied that a party have fail to comply with an order under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , ( b ) the application under paragraph 66 or 75 be in progress , and ( c ) the CAC have give notice under paragraph 70 or 79 of a decision as to the bargaining unit which be ( or unit which be ) appropriate ( each , a " new unit " ) . ( 4 ) if the party that have fail to comply be the employer , the CAC may issue a declaration that the union be ( or union be ) recognise as entitle to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of the new unit or unit . ( 5 ) if the party that have fail to comply be a union , the CAC may issue a declaration that the union be ( or union be ) not entitle to be so recognise . 81F ( 1 ) each of the power specify in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) be to be take to include power to issue Codes of Practice about any matter relate to request for access under paragraph 81a ( 2 ) , include ( among other thing ) — ( a ) what access be reasonable for the purpose of paragraph 81c ( 4 ) ; ( b ) the duty in paragraph 81d ( 4 ) . ( 2 ) the power be — ( a ) the power of ACAS under section 199 ( 1 ) ; ( b ) the power of the Secretary of State under section 203 ( 1 ) ( a ) . " Unfair practice 34 after paragraph 81F ( insert by paragraph 33 of this Schedule ) insert — " unfair practice 81 g ( 1 ) each of the party inform by the CAC under paragraph 68 ( 5 ) or 76 ( 5 ) that an application under paragraph 66 or 75 be accept must refrain from use any unfair practice in relation to the application . ( 2 ) a party use an unfair practice if , with a view to influence the outcome of the application , the party do any of the following — ( a ) dismisse , or threaten to dismiss , a worker ; ( b ) take , or threaten to take , disciplinary action against a worker ; ( c ) subject , or threaten to subject , a worker to any other detriment ; ( d ) offer to pay money , or give money ' s worth , to a relevant worker in return for the worker ' s agreement to vote in a particular way , or to abstain from vote , in a relevant ballot ; ( e ) make an outcome - specific offer to a relevant worker ; ( f ) coerce , or attempt to coerce , a relevant worker to disclose — ( i ) whether the worker intend to vote , or to abstain from vote , in any relevant ballot , or ( ii ) how the worker intend to vote , or have vote , in any relevant ballot ; ( g ) use , or attempt to use , undue influence on a relevant worker . ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) " relevant ballot " mean any ballot that be or may be hold in which worker be ask whether they want the union ( or union ) to conduct collective bargaining on their behalf , and ( b ) " relevant worker " mean any worker who be or would be entitle to vote in a relevant ballot . ( 4 ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( e ) an " outcome - specific offer " be an offer to pay money , or give money ' s worth , which — ( a ) be conditional on the issuing by the CAC of a declaration that — ( i ) the union be ( or union be ) recognise as entitle to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of a bargaining unit , or ( ii ) the union be ( or union be ) not entitle to be so recognised , and ( b ) be not conditional on anything which be do or occur as a result of the declaration in question . ( 5 ) the duty impose by this paragraph do not confer any right on a worker ; but that do not affect any other right which a worker may have . ( 6 ) each of the follow power be to be take to include power to issue Codes of Practice about unfair practice for the purpose of this paragraph — ( a ) the power of ACAS under section 199 ( 1 ) ; ( b ) the power of the Secretary of State under section 203 ( 1 ) ( a ) . 81H ( 1 ) a party may complain to the CAC that another party have fail to comply with paragraph 81 g . ( 2 ) a complaint under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) may not be make after a conclusion event occur . ( 3 ) the follow be conclusion event — ( a ) the withdrawal of the application under paragraph 66 or 75 ; ( b ) the CAC issue a declaration under paragraph 69 ( 3 ) , 78 ( 3 ) , 81e ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) or 81j ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) in relation to the application ; ( c ) the CAC notify the union ( or union ) of its decision under paragraph 77 ( 2 ) or 77 ( 3 ) ; ( d ) if the CAC have give notice under paragraph 70 or 79 of a decision as to the bargaining unit which be ( or unit which be ) appropriate ( each , a " new unit " ) , any of the follow occur in relation to the new unit ( or , if there be more than one , all of the new unit ) — ( i ) the CAC issue a declaration under paragraph 83 ( 2 ) , 85 ( 2 ) , 86 ( 3 ) or 87 ( 2 ) , or under paragraph 27 ( 2 ) ( where it apply by virtue of paragraph 89 ( 5 ) ) ; ( ii ) the union ( or union ) notify the CAC under paragraph 89 ( 1 ) ; ( iii ) the post - ballot complaint period have end . ( 4 ) the post - ballot complaint period be , in relation to any ballot hold arise from the application , the period of 5 working day after — ( a ) the date of the ballot , or ( b ) if vote may be cast in the ballot on more than one day , the last of those day . ( 5 ) within the decision period the CAC must decide whether the complaint be well - found . ( 6 ) a complaint be well - found if the CAC find that the party complain against use an unfair practice . ( 7 ) the decision period be — ( a ) the period of 10 working day start with the day after the day on which the complaint under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) be receive by the CAC , or ( b ) such long period ( so start ) as the CAC may specify to the party by a notice contain reason for the extension . 81I ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if the CAC decide that a complaint under paragraph 81H be well - found . ( 2 ) the CAC must , as soon as be reasonably practicable , issue a declaration to that effect . ( 3 ) the CAC may order the party concern to take any action specify in the order within such period as may be so specified . ( 4 ) sub - paragraph ( 5 ) apply if — ( a ) the CAC have give notice under paragraph 70 or 79 of a decision as to the bargaining unit which be ( or unit which be ) appropriate ( each , a " new unit " ) , and ( b ) the CAC have at any time inform the union ( or union ) under paragraph 25 ( 9 ) ( where it apply by virtue of paragraph 89 ( 4 ) ) of a ballot in relation to the application ( include a ballot that be cancel or be ineffective ) . ( 5 ) the CAC may give notice to the employer and to the union ( or union ) that it intend to arrange for the holding of a secret ballot ( or secret ballot ) in which the worker constitute the new unit ( or each of the new unit ) be ask whether they want the union ( or union ) to conduct collective bargaining on their behalf . ( 6 ) the CAC may make an order under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , or give a notice under sub - paragraph ( 5 ) , either at the same time as it issue the declaration under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) or at any other time before any of the follow occur — ( a ) the withdrawal of the application under paragraph 66 or 75 ; ( b ) the CAC issue a declaration under paragraph 69 ( 3 ) , 78 ( 3 ) , 81e ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) or 81j ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) in relation to the application ; ( c ) the CAC notify the union ( or union ) of its decision under paragraph 77 ( 2 ) or 77 ( 3 ) ; ( d ) in relation to the new unit ( or , if there be more than one , all of the new unit ) — ( i ) the CAC issue a declaration under paragraph 83 ( 2 ) , 85 ( 2 ) , 86 ( 3 ) or 87 ( 2 ) , or under paragraph 27 ( 2 ) ( where it apply by virtue of paragraph 89 ( 5 ) ) , ( ii ) the union ( or union ) notify the CAC under paragraph 89 ( 1 ) , or ( iii ) the holding of any ballot arise from the application . ( 7 ) the action specify in an order under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) must be such as the CAC consider reasonable in order to mitigate the effect of the failure of the party concern to comply with the duty impose by paragraph 81 g . ( 8 ) the CAC may make more than one order under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) . 81j ( 1 ) sub - paragraph ( 4 ) to ( 6 ) apply if — ( a ) the CAC issue a declaration under paragraph 81I ( 2 ) that a complaint that a party have fail to comply with paragraph 81 g be well - found , ( b ) the application under paragraph 66 or 75 have not be withdraw , ( c ) the CAC have give notice under paragraph 70 or 79 of a decision as to the bargaining unit which be ( or unit which be ) appropriate ( each , a " new unit " ) , ( d ) the CAC have not issue a declaration under paragraph 69 ( 3 ) , 78 ( 3 ) , 81e ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) or 81j ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) in relation to the application , ( e ) the CAC have not notify the union ( or union ) of its decision under paragraph 77 ( 2 ) or 77 ( 3 ) , ( f ) in relation to the new unit ( or , if there be more than one , all of the new unit ) , none of the following have occur — ( i ) the CAC issue a declaration under paragraph 83 ( 2 ) , 85 ( 2 ) , 86 ( 3 ) or 87 ( 2 ) , or under paragraph 27 ( 2 ) ( where it apply by virtue of paragraph 89 ( 5 ) ) , ( ii ) the union ( or union ) notify the CAC under paragraph 89 ( 1 ) , or ( iii ) the holding of any ballot arise from the application , and ( g ) sub - paragraph ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) apply . ( 2 ) this sub - paragraph apply if the declaration state that the unfair practice use consist of or include — ( a ) the use of violence , or ( b ) the dismissal of a union official . ( 3 ) this sub - paragraph apply if the CAC have make an order under paragraph 81I ( 3 ) and — ( a ) it be satisfied that the party subject to the order have fail to comply with it , or ( b ) it make another declaration under paragraph 81I ( 2 ) in relation to a complaint against that party . ( 4 ) if the party that have fail to comply be the employer , the CAC may issue a declaration that the union be ( or union be ) recognise as entitle to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of the new unit or unit . ( 5 ) if the party that have fail to comply be a union , the CAC may issue a declaration that the union be ( or union be ) not entitle to be so recognised . ( 6 ) the power confer by this paragraph be in addition to those confer by paragraph 81I . " power of CAC where CAC decide new unit appropriate 35 ( 1 ) paragraph 86 ( new bargaining unit : assessment of support ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for sub - paragraph ( 2 ) substitute — " ( 2 ) the CAC must decide whether member of the union ( or union ) constitute at least the require percentage ( see paragraph 171B ) of the worker constitute the new unit . " ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , for " one or both of the question in the negative " substitute " that member of the union ( or union ) do not constitute at least the require percentage of the worker constitute the new unit " . 36 in paragraph 87 ( power of CAC where majority of worker be member of union ) , for sub - paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if , follow a decision under paragraph 86 ( 2 ) , the CAC be satisfied that a majority of worker constitute the new unit be member of the union ( or union ) . " 37 in paragraph 88 ( power of CAC where majority of worker be not member of union ) , for sub - paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the CAC decide under paragraph 86 ( 2 ) that member of the union ( or union ) constitute at least the require percentage of the worker constitute the new unit , but ( b ) the CAC be not satisfied that a majority of worker constitute the new unit be member of the union ( or union ) . " 38 ( 1 ) paragraph 89 ( ballot ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) , at the end insert " , but as if paragraph 25 ( 1A ) be omit . " ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 5 ) — ( a ) omit the " and " at the end of paragraph ( a ) ; ( b ) after paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( aa ) reference to provision of paragraph 19 g to 19p be reference to the correspond provision of paragraph 81a to 81j , ( ab ) the duty in paragraph 26 ( 4 ) include — ( i ) a duty to give to the CAC , as soon as be reasonably practicable , the name and home address of any worker who join the bargaining unit after the employer have comply with paragraph 26 ( 4 ) ( a ) , and ( ii ) a duty to inform the CAC , as soon as be reasonably practicable , of any worker whose name have be give to the CAC under that duty and who cease to be within the bargaining unit , and " ; ( c ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " 26 ( 4F ) to ( 4h ) " substitute " 26 ( 4F ) and ( 4H ) " . ( 4 ) in sub - paragraph ( 8 ) , for " or 27d ( 3 ) " substitute " , 81e ( 4 ) or 81j ( 4 ) " . ( 5 ) in sub - paragraph ( 9 ) , for " 27d ( 4 ) " substitute " 81e ( 5 ) or 81j ( 5 ) " . Withdrawal of application 39 in paragraph 93 ( withdrawal of application ) , in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) , for " or 78 ( 3 ) " substitute " , 78 ( 3 ) , 81e ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) or 81j ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) " . part 4 - derecognition Access agreement 40 after paragraph 116 insert — " access agreement 116a ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the CAC accept an application under paragraph 106 , 107 or 112 , and ( b ) the application be in progress . ( 2 ) the union ( or union ) may , by give notice to the CAC and the employer within the access request period , request access to the worker constitute the bargaining unit in connection with the application . ( 3 ) the access request period be the period of 5 work day start with the day after the day on which the CAC give the union ( or union ) notice under paragraph 111 ( 5 ) or 115 ( 5 ) that the application be accept . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this paragraph and paragraph 116B to 116E , an application under paragraph 106 , 107 or 112 be in progress if none of the following have occur — ( a ) in the case of an application under paragraph 106 or 107 , the withdrawal of the application ; ( b ) in the case of an application under paragraph 112 , an agreement or withdrawal as describe in paragraph 116 ( 1 ) ; ( c ) the CAC refuse the application under paragraph 116E ( 4 ) , 116j ( 4 ) ( a ) or ( 6 ) or 119 ( 2 ) ; ( d ) the CAC notify the union ( or union ) of a declaration issue under paragraph 116E ( 5 ) or 116j ( 5 ) in relation to the application ; ( e ) the holding of any ballot arise from the application . 116b ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the CAC accept an application under paragraph 106 , 107 or 112 , ( b ) the union request ( or union request ) access to the worker constitute the bargaining unit under paragraph 116a ( 2 ) in connection with the application , and ( c ) the application be in progress . ( 2 ) the CAC must try to help the party to reach agreement within the negotiation period as to term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the worker . ( 3 ) the negotiation period be , subject to any notice under sub - paragraph ( 4 ) or ( 6 ) , the period of 15 working day start with the day after the day on which the union give ( or union give ) notice to the employer under paragraph 116a ( 2 ) . ( 4 ) if , during the negotiation period , the CAC conclude that there be no reasonable prospect of the party ' agree term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the worker before the time when ( apart from this sub - paragraph ) the negotiation period would end , the CAC may , by a notice give to the party , declare that the negotiation period end with the date of the notice . ( 5 ) a notice under sub - paragraph ( 4 ) must contain reason for reach the conclusion mention in that sub - paragraph . ( 6 ) if , during the negotiation period , the party apply to the CAC for a declaration that the negotiation period be to end with a date ( specify in the application ) which be early or later than the date with which it would otherwise end , the CAC may , by a notice give to the party , declare that the negotiation period end with the specify date . 116c ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the CAC accept an application under paragraph 106 , 107 or 112 , ( b ) the union request ( or union request ) access to the worker constitute the bargaining unit under paragraph 116a ( 2 ) in connection with the application , ( c ) the party have not within the negotiation period agree term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the worker , and ( d ) the application be in progress . ( 2 ) within the adjudication period , the CAC must — ( a ) decide the term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the worker , or ( b ) decide that the union be ( or union be ) not to have access to the worker . ( 3 ) the adjudication period be — ( a ) the period of 10 working day start with the day after the day with which the negotiation period end , or ( b ) such long period ( so start ) as the CAC may specify to the party by notice contain reason for the extension . ( 4 ) any term decide by the CAC must be term that the CAC regard as allow such access to the worker constitute the bargaining unit as be reasonable to enable the union ( or union ) to — ( a ) inform the worker of the object of the application or any ballot arise from it , and ( b ) seek their support and their opinion on the issue involve . 116d ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) an access agreement be enter into , and ( b ) the application under paragraph 106 , 107 or 112 be in progress . ( 2 ) " access agreement " mean — ( a ) term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the worker constitute the bargaining unit and which be agree between the party under paragraph 116b during the negotiation period , or ( b ) term on which the union be ( or union be ) to have access to the worker constitute the bargaining unit and which be decide by the CAC under paragraph 116c , and such an agreement be to be treat as " enter into " when the term be so agree or decide . ( 3 ) the party must comply with the access agreement . ( 4 ) the employer must refrain from make any offer to any or all of the worker constitute the bargaining unit which — ( a ) have or be likely to have the effect of induce any or all of they not to attend any relevant meeting between the union ( or union ) and the worker constitute the bargaining unit , and ( b ) be not reasonable in the circumstance . ( 5 ) the employer must refrain from take , or threaten to take , any action against a worker solely or mainly on the ground that the worker — ( a ) attend or take part in any relevant meeting between the union ( or union ) and the worker constitute the bargaining unit , or ( b ) indicate an intention to attend or take part in such a meeting . ( 6 ) a meeting be a relevant meeting in relation to a worker for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) if — ( a ) it be organise in accordance with an access agreement or as a result of a step order to be take under paragraph 116E to remedy a failure to comply with the duty in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , and ( b ) it be one which the employer be , by such an agreement or order as be mention in paragraph ( a ) , require to permit the worker to attend . ( 7 ) the duty impose by sub - paragraph ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) do not confer any right on a worker ; but that do not affect any other right which a worker may have . ( 8 ) any provision of an access agreement that would require personal datum relate to any of the relevant worker to be disclose to a person other than a person appoint under paragraph 117 to conduct a ballot be of no effect for the purpose of this Part of this Schedule . ( 9 ) " personal datum " have the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 of that Act ) . ( 10 ) an access agreement be to be conclusively presume not to have be intend by the party to be a legally enforceable contract ; and , accordingly , where an access agreement be , or be part of , a collective agreement , section 179 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) ( a ) do not apply to the access agreement . 116e ( 1 ) sub - paragraph ( 2 ) apply if — ( a ) the CAC be satisfied that a party have fail to fulfil any of the duty impose on that party by paragraph 116d , and ( b ) the application under paragraph 106 , 107 or 112 be in progress . ( 2 ) the CAC may order the party — ( a ) to take such step to remedy the failure as the CAC consider reasonable and specifie in the order , and ( b ) to do so within such period as the CAC consider reasonable and specifie in the order . ( 3 ) sub - paragraph ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) apply if — ( a ) the CAC be satisfied that a party have fail to comply with an order under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , and ( b ) the application under paragraph 106 , 107 or 112 be in progress . ( 4 ) if the party that have fail to comply be the employer , and the application be under paragraph 106 or 107 , the CAC may refuse the application . ( 5 ) if the party that have fail to comply be a union , the CAC may issue a declaration that the bargaining arrangement be to cease to have effect ; and the bargaining arrangement cease to have effect accordingly . 116f ( 1 ) each of the power specify in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) be to be take to include power to issue Codes of Practice about any matter relate to request for access under paragraph 116a ( 2 ) , include ( among other thing ) — ( a ) what access be reasonable for the purpose of paragraph 116c ( 4 ) ; ( b ) the duty in paragraph 116d ( 4 ) . ( 2 ) the power be — ( a ) the power of ACAS under section 199 ( 1 ) ; ( b ) the power of the Secretary of State under section 203 ( 1 ) ( a ) . " Unfair practice 41 after paragraph 116F ( insert by paragraph 40 of this Schedule ) insert — " unfair practice 116 g ( 1 ) each of the party inform by the CAC under paragraph 111 ( 5 ) or 115 ( 5 ) that an application under paragraph 106 , 107 or 112 be accept must refrain from use any unfair practice in relation to the application . ( 2 ) a party use an unfair practice if , with a view to influence the outcome of the application , the party do any of the following — ( a ) dismisse , or threaten to dismiss , a worker ; ( b ) take , or threaten to take , disciplinary action against a worker ; ( c ) subject , or threaten to subject , a worker to any other detriment ; ( d ) offer to pay money , or give money ' s worth , to a relevant worker in return for the worker ' s agreement to vote in a particular way , or to abstain from vote , in a relevant ballot ; ( e ) make an outcome - specific offer to a relevant worker ; ( f ) coerce , or attempt to coerce , a relevant worker to disclose — ( i ) whether the worker intend to vote , or to abstain from vote , in any relevant ballot , or ( ii ) how the worker intend to vote , or have vote , in any relevant ballot ; ( g ) use , or attempt to use , undue influence on a relevant worker . ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) " relevant ballot " mean any ballot that be or may be hold in which worker be ask whether the bargaining arrangement should be end , and ( b ) " relevant worker " mean any worker who be or would be entitle to vote in a relevant ballot . ( 4 ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( e ) an " outcome - specific offer " be an offer to pay money , or give money ' s worth , which — ( a ) be conditional on — ( i ) the issuing by the CAC of a declaration that the bargaining arrangement be to cease to have effect , or ( ii ) the refusal by the CAC of an application under paragraph 106 , 107 or 112 , and ( b ) be not conditional on anything which be do or occur as a result of that declaration , or , as the case may be , of that refusal . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this paragraph and paragraph 116H to 116J as they apply in relation to an application under paragraph 112 , reference to a party be to be read as include reference to the worker or worker make the application . ( 6 ) the duty impose by this paragraph do not confer any right on a worker ; but that do not affect any other right which a worker may have . ( 7 ) each of the follow power be to be take to include power to issue Codes of Practice about unfair practice for the purpose of this paragraph — ( a ) the power of ACAS under section 199 ( 1 ) ; ( b ) the power of the Secretary of State under section 203 ( 1 ) ( a ) . 116H ( 1 ) a party may complain to the CAC that another party have fail to comply with paragraph 116 g . ( 2 ) a complaint under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) may not be make after — ( a ) in the case of an application under paragraph 106 or 107 , the application be withdraw ; ( b ) in the case of an application under paragraph 112 , an agreement or withdrawal as describe in paragraph 116 ( 1 ) ; ( c ) the CAC refuse the application under paragraph 116E ( 4 ) , 116j ( 4 ) ( a ) or ( 6 ) or 119 ( 2 ) ; ( d ) the CAC notifie the union ( or union ) of a declaration issue under paragraph 116E ( 5 ) or 116j ( 5 ) in relation to the application ; ( e ) if the CAC inform the union ( or union ) under paragraph 117 ( 11 ) of a ballot , the fifth work day after — ( i ) the date of the ballot , or ( ii ) if vote may be cast in the ballot on more than one day , the last of those day . ( 3 ) within the decision period the CAC must decide whether the complaint be well - found . ( 4 ) a complaint be well - found if the CAC find that the party complain against use an unfair practice . ( 5 ) the decision period be — ( a ) the period of 10 working day start with the day after the day on which the complaint under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) be receive by the CAC , or ( b ) such long period ( so start ) as the CAC may specify to the party by a notice contain reason for the extension . 116i ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if the CAC decide that a complaint under paragraph 116H be well - found . ( 2 ) the CAC must , as soon as be reasonably practicable , issue a declaration to that effect . ( 3 ) the CAC may order the party concern to take any action specify in the order within such period as may be so specified . ( 4 ) sub - paragraph ( 5 ) apply if the CAC have at any time inform the union ( or union ) under paragraph 117 ( 11 ) of a ballot in relation to the application ( include a ballot that be cancel or be ineffective ) . ( 5 ) the CAC may make arrangement for the holding of a secret ballot in which the worker constitute the bargaining unit be ask whether the bargaining arrangement should be end . ( 6 ) the CAC may make an order under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , or make arrangement under sub - paragraph ( 5 ) , either at the same time as it issue the declaration under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) or at any other time before any of the follow occur — ( a ) in the case of an application under paragraph 106 or 107 , the withdrawal of the application ; ( b ) in the case of an application under paragraph 112 , an agreement or withdrawal as describe in paragraph 116 ( 1 ) ; ( c ) the CAC refuse the application under paragraph 116E ( 4 ) , 116j ( 4 ) ( a ) or ( 6 ) or 119 ( 2 ) ; ( d ) the CAC notify the union ( or union ) of a declaration issue under paragraph 116E ( 5 ) or 116j ( 5 ) in relation to the application ; ( e ) if the CAC inform the union ( or union ) under paragraph 117 ( 11 ) of a ballot , the CAC act under paragraph 121 in relation to the ballot . ( 7 ) the action specify in an order under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) must be such as the CAC consider reasonable in order to mitigate the effect of the failure of the party concern to comply with the duty impose by paragraph 116 g . ( 8 ) the CAC may make more than one order under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) . 116j ( 1 ) sub - paragraph ( 4 ) to ( 7 ) apply if — ( a ) the CAC issue a declaration under paragraph 116I ( 2 ) that a complaint that a party have fail to comply with paragraph 116 g be well - found , ( b ) the application under paragraph 106 , 107 or 112 have not be withdraw or , in the case of an application under paragraph 112 , there have be no agreement as describe in paragraph 116 ( 1 ) , ( c ) the CAC have not refuse the application under paragraph 116E ( 4 ) , 116j ( 4 ) ( a ) or ( 6 ) or 119 ( 2 ) ; ( d ) the CAC have not notify the union ( or union ) of a declaration issue under paragraph 116E ( 5 ) or 116j ( 5 ) in relation to the application , and ( e ) sub - paragraph ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) apply . ( 2 ) this sub - paragraph apply if the declaration state that the unfair practice use consist of or include — ( a ) the use of violence , or ( b ) the dismissal of a union official . ( 3 ) this sub - paragraph apply if the CAC have make an order under paragraph 116I ( 3 ) and — ( a ) it be satisfied that the party subject to the order have fail to comply with it , or ( b ) it make another declaration under paragraph 116I ( 2 ) in relation to a complaint against that party . ( 4 ) if the party that have fail to comply be the employer , the CAC may — ( a ) refuse the employer ' s application under paragraph 106 or 107 ; ( b ) order the employer to refrain from any campaigning in relation to an application under paragraph 112 . ( 5 ) if the party that have fail to comply be a union , the CAC may issue a declaration that the bargaining arrangement be to cease to have effect on a date specify by the CAC in the declaration ; and the bargaining arrangement cease to have effect accordingly . ( 6 ) if the party that have fail to comply be the worker make an application under paragraph 112 ( or any of the worker make an application under paragraph 112 ) , the CAC may refuse the application . ( 7 ) the power confer by this paragraph be in addition to those confer by paragraph 116I . 116 k ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if the CAC have make an order against the employer under paragraph 116I ( 3 ) or 116j ( 4 ) ( b ) in relation to an application under paragraph 112 . ( 2 ) the worker make the application ( or each of the worker make the application ) and the union ( or each of the union ) be entitle to enforce obedience to the order . ( 3 ) the order may be enforce — ( a ) in England and Wales , in the same way as an order of the county court ; ( b ) in Scotland , in the same way as an order of the sheriff . " Ballots 42 ( 1 ) paragraph 117 ( ballot : general ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , for " this paragraph " substitute " sub - paragraph ( 3 ) " . ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , for " this paragraph " substitute " sub - paragraph ( 3 ) " . ( 4 ) in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) , for " the ballot " substitute " a ballot arrange under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , or under paragraph 116I ( 5 ) , " . 43 ( 1 ) paragraph 118 ( duty of employer in relation to ballot ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , omit " five " . ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) for " the first duty be to " substitute " the employer must " ; ( b ) for " the second and third duty be not " substitute " no other duty of the employer under this part of this Schedule be " . ( 4 ) omit sub - paragraph ( 3 ) . ( 5 ) in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) — ( a ) in the word before paragraph ( a ) , for " the third duty be to " substitute " the employer must " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( a ) , for " to give " substitute " give " ; ( c ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " to give " substitute " give " ; ( d ) in paragraph ( c ) , for " to inform " substitute " inform " . ( 6 ) after sub - paragraph ( 4 ) insert — " ( 4za ) if the ballot be arrange under paragraph 116I ( 5 ) , the duty under sub - paragraph ( 4 ) ( a ) be limit to — ( a ) give the CAC the name and home address of any worker in the bargaining unit which have not previously be give to it in accordance with that duty ; ( b ) give the CAC the name and home address of those worker who have join the bargaining unit since the employer last give the CAC information in accordance with that duty ; ( c ) inform the CAC of any change to the name or home address of a worker whose name and home address have previously be give to the CAC in accordance with that duty ; ( d ) inform the CAC of any worker whose name have previously be give to it in accordance with that duty who have cease to be within the bargaining unit . " ( 7 ) omit sub - paragraph ( 4A ) to ( 4e ) , ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) . 44 in paragraph 119 ( breach of paragraph 118 ) , after sub - paragraph ( 4 ) insert — " ( 5 ) if — ( a ) the ballot have be arrange in consequence of an application under paragraph 112 , ( b ) the CAC have make an order against the employer under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , and ( c ) the ballot have not be hold , the worker make the application ( or each of the worker make the application ) and the union ( or each of the union ) be entitle to enforce obedience to the order . ( 6 ) the order may be enforce — ( a ) in England and Wales , in the same way as an order of the county court ; ( b ) in Scotland , in the same way as an order of the sheriff . " 45 after paragraph 119 insert — " 119ZA ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the union have ( or union have ) be inform of a ballot under paragraph 117 ( 11 ) , and ( b ) the CAC refuse an application or issue a declaration under paragraph 116E . ( 2 ) if the ballot have not be hold , the CAC must take step to cancel it . ( 3 ) if the ballot be hold , it be to have no effect . 119ZB ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the union have ( or union have ) be inform of a ballot under paragraph 117 ( 11 ) , ( b ) a complaint be make under paragraph 116H , and ( c ) the ballot do not begin before the beginning of the decision period refer to in paragraph 116H ( 5 ) . ( 2 ) the CAC may by notice to the party and the qualified independent person postpone the date on which the ballot be to begin until a date which fall after the end of the decision period . ( 3 ) in relation to an application under paragraph 112 , " the party " include the worker or worker make the application . 119ZC ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the union have ( or union have ) be inform of a ballot under paragraph 117 ( 11 ) , ( b ) the CAC issue a declaration that a complaint under paragraph 116H be well - found , and ( c ) the CAC — ( i ) make arrangement under paragraph 116I ( 5 ) , ( ii ) refuse under paragraph 116j ( 4 ) ( a ) or ( 6 ) an application under paragraph 106 , 107 or 112 , or ( iii ) issue a declaration under paragraph 116j ( 5 ) . ( 2 ) if the ballot have not be hold , the CAC must take step to cancel it . ( 3 ) if the ballot be hold , it be to have no effect . 119ZD ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) the CAC make arrangement under paragraph 116I ( 5 ) , and ( b ) the CAC have previously give an order under paragraph 119 ( 1 ) in relation to a cancel or ineffective ballot in connection with the application to which the notice relate . ( 2 ) the order have effect , to the extent that the CAC specifie in a notice to the party , as if it be make for the purpose of the ballot for which arrangement be make under paragraph 116I ( 5 ) . ( 3 ) in relation to an application under paragraph 112 , " the party " include the worker or worker make the application . " 46 Omit paragraph 119A to 119I ( unfair practice during ballot ) . 47 ( 1 ) paragraph 120 ( cost of ballot ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , after " paragraph " insert " 116I ( 5 ) or " . ( 3 ) after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) if the holding of the ballot be arrange under paragraph 116I ( 5 ) , the gross cost of the ballot be to be bear by such of the party and in such proportion as the CAC may determine . ( 1b ) in relation to an application under paragraph 112 , " the party " include the worker or worker make the application . " ( 4 ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , for " the gross cost " substitute " if the holding of the ballot be arrange under paragraph 117 ( 3 ) , the gross cost " . ( 5 ) in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) , for " the employer and the union ( or each of the union ) " substitute " the party or party require to bear the cost " . 48 in paragraph 121 ( result of ballot ) , for sub - paragraph ( 1 ) and ( 1A ) substitute — " ( 1 ) the CAC must act under this paragraph as soon as reasonably practicable after — ( a ) the CAC be inform of the result of a ballot by the person conduct it , and ( b ) the complaint period end . ( 1za ) the complaint period be the period of 5 work day start with the day after — ( a ) the day of the ballot , or ( b ) if vote may be cast in the ballot on more than one day , the last of those day . ( 1A ) the duty in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) do not apply — ( a ) if a complaint be make under paragraph 116H , on or before the day on which the CAC decide whether the complaint be well - found ; ( b ) if the CAC make arrangement under paragraph 116I ( 5 ) . " Derecognition where recognition automatic 49 in paragraph 122 ( derecognition where recognition automatic on agree term ) , in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) — ( a ) after " 19f ( 5 ) , " insert " 19 k ( 4 ) , 19p ( 4 ) , " ; ( b ) for " , 27 ( 2 ) or 27d ( 3 ) " substitute " or 27 ( 2 ) " . 50 in paragraph 123 ( derecognition where recognition automatic on specify term ) , in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) — ( a ) after " 19f ( 5 ) , " insert " 19 k ( 4 ) , 19p ( 4 ) , " ; ( b ) for " , 27 ( 2 ) or 27d ( 3 ) " substitute " or 27 ( 2 ) " . 51 in paragraph 124 ( derecognition where recognition automatic follow change to bargaining unit ) , in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , after " paragraph " insert " 81e ( 4 ) , 81j ( 4 ) or " . 52 after paragraph 132 insert — " access agreement 132A Paragraphs 116a to 116e apply if the CAC accept an application under paragraph 128 ( as well as in the case mention in paragraph 116a ( 1 ) ) , as if — ( a ) the reference in paragraph 116A ( 1 ) and ( 4 ) , 116B ( 1 ) ( a ) , 116c ( 1 ) ( a ) , 116d ( 1 ) ( b ) and 116e ( 1 ) ( b ) and ( 3 ) ( b ) to paragraph 106 , 107 or 112 be to paragraph 106 , 107 , 112 or 128 ; ( b ) the reference in paragraph 116a ( 3 ) to paragraph 111 ( 5 ) or 115 ( 5 ) be to paragraph 111 ( 5 ) , 115 ( 5 ) or 132 ( 5 ) ; ( c ) the reference in paragraph 116A ( 4 ) ( a ) and 116e ( 4 ) to paragraph 106 or 107 be to paragraph 106 , 107 or 128 . " 53 after paragraph 132A ( insert by paragraph 52 of this Schedule ) insert — " unfair practice 132B paragraph 116 g to 116 K apply if the CAC accept an application under paragraph 128 ( as well as in the case mention in paragraph 116 g ) , as if — ( a ) the reference in paragraph 116 g ( 1 ) and ( 4 ) ( a ) ( ii ) and 116j ( 1 ) ( b ) to paragraph 106 , 107 or 112 be to paragraph 106 , 107 , 112 or 128 ; ( b ) the reference in paragraph 116 g ( 1 ) to paragraph 111 ( 5 ) or 115 ( 5 ) be to paragraph 111 ( 5 ) , 115 ( 5 ) or 132 ( 5 ) ; ( c ) the reference in paragraph 116H ( 2 ) ( a ) , 116I ( 6 ) ( a ) and 116j ( 4 ) ( a ) to paragraph 106 or 107 be to paragraph 106 , 107 or 128 . " 54 ( 1 ) paragraph 133 ( ballot on derecognition ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , for " and ( 2 ) " substitute " , ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) " . ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( a ) , for " reference in paragraph 119 ( 2 ) ( a ) and 119D ( 3 ) " substitute " reference in paragraph 119 ( 2 ) ( a ) " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " 119A ( 3 ) ( a ) ( ii ) , 119e ( 1 ) ( b ) " substitute " 119ZC ( 1 ) ( c ) ( ii ) " . derecognition where union not independent 55 after paragraph 146 insert — " access agreement 146A paragraph 116a to 116e apply if the CAC accept an application under paragraph 137 ( as well as in the case mention in paragraph 116a ( 1 ) ) , as if — ( a ) the reference in paragraph 116A ( 1 ) and ( 4 ) , 116B ( 1 ) ( a ) , 116c ( 1 ) ( a ) , 116d ( 1 ) ( b ) and 116e ( 1 ) ( b ) and ( 3 ) ( b ) to paragraph 106 , 107 or 112 be to paragraph 106 , 107 , 112 or 137 ; ( b ) the reference in paragraph 116a ( 4 ) ( b ) to paragraph 112 be to paragraph 112 or 137 ; ( c ) the reference in paragraph 116a ( 3 ) to paragraph 111 ( 5 ) or 115 ( 5 ) be to paragraph 111 ( 5 ) , 115 ( 5 ) or 141 ( 5 ) ; ( d ) the reference in paragraph 116a ( 4 ) ( b ) to paragraph 116 ( 1 ) be to paragraph 116 ( 1 ) , 142 ( 1 ) or 145 ( 3 ) . " 56 after paragraph 146A ( insert by paragraph 55 of this Schedule ) insert — " Unfair practice 146b paragraph 116 g to 116 K apply if the CAC accept an application under paragraph 137 ( as well as in the case mention in paragraph 116 g ) , as if — ( a ) the reference in paragraph 116 g ( 1 ) and ( 4 ) ( a ) ( ii ) and 116j ( 1 ) ( b ) to paragraph 106 , 107 or 112 be to paragraph 106 , 107 , 112 or 137 ; ( b ) the reference in paragraph 116 g ( 1 ) to paragraph 111 ( 5 ) or 115 ( 5 ) be to paragraph 111 ( 5 ) , 115 ( 5 ) or 141 ( 5 ) ; ( c ) the reference in paragraph 116 g ( 5 ) , 116H ( 2 ) ( b ) , 116I ( 6 ) ( b ) , 116j ( 1 ) ( b ) , ( 4 ) ( b ) and ( 6 ) and 116 k ( 1 ) to paragraph 112 be to paragraph 112 or 137 ; ( d ) the reference in paragraph 116H ( 2 ) ( b ) and 116I ( 6 ) ( b ) to paragraph 116 ( 1 ) be to paragraph 116 ( 1 ) , 142 ( 1 ) or 145 ( 3 ) . " 57 ( 1 ) paragraph 147 ( ballot on derecognition ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , for " and ( 2 ) " substitute " , ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) " . ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( a ) , for " reference in paragraph 119H ( 1 ) and 119I ( 1 ) ( a ) " substitute " reference in paragraph 119 ( 5 ) ( a ) " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " 119A ( 3 ) ( a ) ( ii ) , 119e ( 1 ) ( b ) " substitute " 119ZC ( 1 ) ( c ) ( ii ) " ; ( c ) after paragraph ( c ) insert — " ( d ) the reference in paragraph 119ZA ( 1 ) ( b ) to the CAC refuse an application include a reference to it be require to give notice under paragraph 146 ( 5 ) . " part 5 - meaning of " the require percentage " 58 after paragraph 171a insert — " " the required percentage " 171B ( 1 ) in this schedule , " the require percentage " mean 10 % . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend this paragraph so that the require percentage be a percentage — ( a ) not great than 10 % , and ( b ) not less than 2 % . ( 3 ) regulation under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) be to be make by statutory instrument ; ( b ) may include supplementary , incidental , save or transitional provision , include provision amend this schedule ; ( c ) may make different provision for different case . ( 4 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . " part 6 - consequential amendment 59 ( 1 ) the Employment Relations Act 2004 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 9 — ( a ) omit subsection ( 1 ) to ( 4 ) ; ( b ) in subsection ( 5 ) , for " that schedule " substitute " Schedule A1 to the 1992 Act " ; ( c ) omit subsection ( 6 ) to ( 9 ) . ( 3 ) omit section 10 . ( 4 ) omit section 13 . ( 5 ) in paragraph 23 of Schedule 1 — ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( 10 ) , omit paragraph ( b ) ( and the " and " before it ) ; ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( 11 ) , omit paragraph ( b ) ( and the " and " before it ) ; ( c ) in sub - paragraph ( 13 ) , omit paragraph ( b ) ( and the " and " before it ) ; ( d ) in sub - paragraph ( 14 ) , omit paragraph ( b ) ( and the " and " before it ) ; ( e ) omit sub - paragraph ( 19 ) ; ( f ) in sub - paragraph ( 26 ) , omit paragraph ( a ) ( and the " and " after it ) ; ( g ) in sub - paragraph ( 27 ) , omit paragraph ( a ) ( and the " and " after it ) . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new schedule would amend Schedule A1 to the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 to extend the prohibition on unfair practice to the entirety of a recognition or derecognition process , ensure that the Central Arbitration Committee can make order in relation to such practice whether or not they have an impact on the process , increase the time limit for make claim in relation to such practice , provide for bind arrangement for access by the union to worker throughout a recognition or derecognition process , prevent worker who join the bargaining unit after a recognition application from be count for various purpose , prevent a new recognition agreement with a non - independent union stop a recognition process , and make the amendment currently in clause 51 . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the schedule be read a second time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 333 , Noes 100 . question accordingly agree to . new schedule 2 read a second time , and add to the Bill . schedule 5 - legislation subject to enforcement under part 5 amendment make : 246 , page 155 , line 2 , at end insert — " Social Security Contributions and benefit ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 7A Section 147 ( 1 ) of the Social Security Contributions and benefit ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 ( employer ' s liability to pay statutory sick pay ) . 7B Regulations under section 149 ( 5 ) ( b ) of that Act ( requirement to provide statement about entitlement ) . Social Security Administration ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 7C Regulations under section 5 of the Social Security Administration ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 ( regulation about claim for and payment of benefit ) , so far as relate to statutory sick pay . 7D Section 12 ( 3 ) of that Act ( duty of employer to provide certain information to employee in relation to statutory sick pay ) . 7E Regulations under section 122 of that Act ( duty of employer ) , so far as relate to statutory sick pay . " this amendment would enable the Secretary of State to exercise the power confer by Part 5 of the Bill to enforce certain obligation relate to statutory sick pay in Northern Ireland . amendment 247 , page 155 , line 13 , leave out paragraph 13 and insert — " 13 Section 17 of that Act ( non - compliance : worker entitle to additional remuneration ) . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 254 . amendment 248 , page 155 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( d ) regulation 16b ( 1 ) ( duty to keep record relate to annual leave entitlement ) ; ( e ) regulation 29 ( 1 ) ( offence ) , so far as relate to regulation 16b ( 1 ) . " this amendment would enable the Secretary of State to exercise the power confer by Part 5 of the Bill to enforce the duty impose by regulation 16b of the Working Time Regulations 1998 ( insert by NC35 ) . amendment 250 , page 156 , line 26 , at end insert — " 24a section 38 ( 2 ) of this Act ( entitlement of social care worker to be pay in accordance with ratify agreement of Negotiating Body ) . 24b section 39 ( 5 ) ( entitlement of social care worker to be pay in accordance with regulation make by Secretary of State , etc ) . " . — ( Justin Madders . ) the effect of this amendment be that the Secretary of State ' s enforcement power under Part 5 of the Bill ( in particular , the new power to give a notice of underpayment confer by NC44 ) will be exercisable in relation to the entitlement of social care worker to be pay in accordance with agreement of a Negotiating body or regulation make by the appropriate authority . as a result , clause 42 , which would have enable the application of provision of the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 for the purpose of enforce those entitlement , be unnecessary . schedule 5 - legislation subject to enforcement under Part 5 Amendments make : 251 , page 157 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) regulation under this paragraph may not add an enactment that deal with a transfer matter , or vary a reference to such an enactment , without the consent of the appropriate Northern Ireland department . ( 2b ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2A ) — " the appropriate Northern Ireland department " , in relation to an enactment that deal with a transfer matter , mean the Northern Ireland department which have responsibility for that matter ; " deal with " be to be read in accordance with section 98 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 ; " transfer matter " have the meaning give by section 4 ( 1 ) of that Act . " this amendment would provide that the Secretary of State may not amend the list of legislation in Part 1 of Schedule 5 to add an enactment that deal with a transfer matter in Northern Ireland , or vary a reference to such an enactment , without the consent of the appropriate Northern Ireland department . employment law be generally a transfer matter in relation to Northern Ireland . Amendment 252 , page 157 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( ) section ( power to give notice of underpayment ) ( power to give notice of underpayment ) ; " . this amendment would enable regulation that add an enactment to Part 1 of Schedule 5 ( the list of legislation to be enforce by the Secretary of State under Part 5 ) to make consequential amendment of NC44 , for example to exclude a provision from be a " statutory pay provision " for the purpose of give notice of underpayment . amendment 253 , page 157 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( ) regulation under this paragraph that add an enactment which — ( a ) confer a right or entitlement to the payment of any sum to an individual , or ( b ) prohibit or restrict the withholding of payment of any sum to an individual , may provide that a notice of underpayment relate to sum due under or by virtue of the enactment may relate to sum become due before the come into force of the regulation . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause enable regulation that amend Part 1 of Schedule 5 to add an enactment to the list of legislation enforceable by the Secretary of State under Part 5 of the Bill to provide that a notice of underpayment relate to sum due under or by virtue of the enactment may relate to sum become due before the come into force of the regulation . this correspond to the provision make by subsection ( 6 ) of NC46 . schedule 8 - consequential amendment relate to Part 5 Amendments make : 254 , page 163 , leave out from beginning of line 17 to end of line 3 on page 164 and insert — " 23 omit section 19 to 19h ( notice of underpayment ) . " this amendment would provide for the repeal of section 19 to 19h of the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 , which enable notice of underpayment to be give in respect of non - payment of the national minimum wage . those provision will be supersede by the power in the Bill . amendment 255 , page 171 , line 6 , at end insert — " Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 69a ( 1 ) the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 36 ( effect of accuse ' s failure or refusal to account for object , substance or mark ) , after subsection ( 5 ) insert — " ( 5a ) this section apply in relation to enforcement officer who — ( a ) be appoint by the Secretary of State under section 77 of the Employment Rights Act 2025 , and ( b ) be act in the exercise of function confer on they by virtue of section 114b of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 , as it apply in relation to constable . " ( 3 ) in section 37 ( effect of accuse ' s failure or refusal to account for presence at a particular place ) , after subsection ( 4 ) insert — " ( 4A ) this section apply in relation to enforcement officer who — ( a ) be appoint by the Secretary of State under section 77 of the Employment Rights Act 2025 , and ( b ) be act in the exercise of function confer on they by virtue of section 114b of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 , as it apply in relation to constable . " " the effect of this amendment be that , where an individual be arrest for a labour market offence by an enforcement officer who be authorise to exercise police power , and the individual ( when ask ) fail or refuse to account for an object , substance or mark on their person , clothing , etc , or to account for their presence in a particular place , a court or jury may draw inference from that failure or refusal in any criminal proceeding against the individual for the offence . amendment 256 , page 171 , line 11 , at begin insert — " ( 1 ) the Employment Tribunals Act 1996 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 18 ( conciliation : relevant proceeding etc ) , in subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) , omit " , 19d ( 1 ) ( a ) " . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 254 . amendment 257 , page 171 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) in section 21 ( jurisdiction of Employment Appeal Tribunal ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , after paragraph ( ge ) insert — " ( gf ) Part 5 of the Employment Rights Act 2025 , " . " this amendment provide that appeal in relation to decision of an employment tribunal under Part 5 of the Bill lie to the Employment Appeal Tribunal . Amendment 258 , page 174 , line 16 , leave out " section 16 and " and insert " the following — ( a ) section 9 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) ; ( b ) section 16 ; ( c ) section " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 254 . amendment 259 , page 175 , line 7 , leave out paragraph 88 and insert — " 88 in the Small Business , Enterprise and Employment Act 2015 , omit the following — ( a ) in section 150 , subsection ( 4 ) and ( 7 ) ; ( b ) section 152 . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 254 . schedule 9 - transitional and save provision relate to Part 5 Amendments make : 260 , page 183 , line 31 , at end insert — " notice of underpayment under the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 17a except so far as provide for by paragraph 6 ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) of this Schedule , the repeal of section 19 to 19h of the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 by paragraph 23 of Schedule 8 do not apply in relation to any notice serve under any of those section before the come into force of that repeal ( and accordingly paragraph 6 ( 3 ) of this Schedule do not apply in relation to thing do , or in the process of be do , under any of those section ) . " Amendment 261 , page 183 , line 33 , leave out " 28 " and insert " 23 , 71 ( 2 ) , 84 ( a ) and 88 ( b ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 256 , 258 and 259 . Long Title Amendment make : 262 , line 5 , after " equality ; " insert — " to amend the definition of " employment business " in the Employment Agencies Act 1973 ; " . this amendment be consequential on NC36 . Amendment 263 , line 6 , leave out — " the Adult Social Care Negotiating Body " and insert " Social Care Negotiating Bodies " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC37 . third read King ' s consent signify . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I refer hon . member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and declare that I be a lifelong proud trade unionist . let I begin by thank right hon . and hon . member on both side of the Chamber for their positive and constructive engagement over recent month . in particular , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) for his superhuman work in steer this Bill through its Commons stage , and all the member of the Public Bill Committee for their thoughtful scrutiny . when this Government take office , we promise the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation — nothing less than a new deal for work people . we say we would introduce a Bill to deliver that within 100 day , and we hear from Conservative Members who say we should not ; and there be those who say we could not , but we do . today , this House be take another giant step towards make work pay . let we be clear : too many work people have have to wait for too long for change . over a decade , wage flatline , in - work poverty grow , and growth be strangle . we inherit a fail economy that serve no one , but today a Government of work people for work people be turn the tide . this landmark Bill — pro - growth , pro - business and pro - worker — will put fairness back into work . almost 9 million employee will be protect from unfair dismissal , up to 2 million will receive a right to bereavement leave and 1 million worker on zero - hour contract will get the security they deserve . in three week ' time , over 3 million worker will see one of the big rise in the minimum wage on record . we say that we would make work pay , and this Government mean it . our vision be back by many of the good business such as the 1 , 200 member of the Good Business Charter , from FTSE 100 company to small and medium - sized enterprise . they prove that if you treat people well , you get the good out of they . they know that be pro - worker be not a barrier to success , but a launchpad to it . that be why this Bill take the very good standard from the very good business and extend they to million more worker . it be also why we proudly say that this be a pro - business and pro - worker Bill . but we know that this will represent change , and I understand that many business want to work with the Government to get the detail right . our commitment in the week and month ahead to be do just that . my message be clear : this transformative package be a huge opportunity . it be a once - in - a - generation chance to reshape the world of work , to drive a race to the top on standard , to deliver growth and to build an economy that work for everyone . we know that the Tories , in lockstep with Reform , will fight this every step of the way . over two decade ago , they do the same with Labour ' s minimum wage . they say then that it would destroy 2 million job , and now they be queue up to vote against every single measure in this Bill , but the truth be that they be wrong then and they be wrong now . the only thing they be consistent on be that every time they have have the chance to deliver basic fairness for worker , they have vote against it . we know that they can not be trust to stand up for work people , but this Labour Government will . for too long , people in Britain have be overlook and undervalue , and our plan change that : with job that be more secure and family - friendly ; with woman support in work at every stage of life ; with a genuine living wage and sick pay for the low earner ; with further and fast action to close the gender pay gap ; with right that be enforce ; and with trade union that be strengthen . in July , after 14 year of failure , the country vote for change . we promise to deliver a new deal , and today this Labour Government deliver on that promise with a once - in - a - generation transformation to build an economy base on fairness , to raise living standard , to drive growth and to deliver a well Britain for work people . I commend this Bill to the House . I call the shadow Minister . before I summarise the opposition ' s view on the Bill , I pay tribute to those on the conservative Benches who contribute during its passage . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) have hold the Government to account with forensic skill on Report and in Committee . he be join in the Bill Committee by my hon . friend the Members for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) , for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) and for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) and for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) perform great service as member of the Select Committee . I also acknowledge the work of official in the Department and in Parliament . their job can not have be easy , give the indecent haste with which the Bill have be produce . we disagree on much , but it would be churlish of I not to recognise that today represent a personal victory for the Deputy Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) . while the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the right hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) and the Chancellor of the Exchequer , the right hon . member for Leeds West and Pudsey ( Rachel Reeves ) lie low , there be no doubt who have be in the drive seat . [ interruption . ] well , he be now . he ' s here now . it be very — [ interruption . ] order . we welcome he to his place . at least the Deputy Prime Minister be honest in her unwavering support for the trade union agenda . she be proud to walk in the footstep of Neil Kinnock , Michael Foot and the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , a conviction politician in the proper sense of the word , not a politician with conviction like the Labour Member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Mike Amesbury ) . it make a welcome change — [ interruption . ] well , he ' s go . it make a welcome change from a Prime Minister who pretend the Bill be about growth . it be not easy for the right hon . Lady . it be always awkward be at odd with your boss : he say grow , you say slow ; he want few regulator , you create new one . we all remember how in 2021 she herself be a victim of fire and rehire by a bad boss . just wait until he see the high unemployment , high price and low growth that the Bill will bring . [ interruption . ] order . I ' ll do that again : high unemployment , high price and low growth . no wonder the right hon . Lady be in favour of make it hard to be sack . this be a sad day for business and a bad day for Parliament . business will have watch the last two day with dismay — [ interruption . ] they will watch this with dismay as well , Madam Deputy Speaker . as they struggle with the Chancellor ' s job tax and with the business rate hike about to hit next month , they see hundred of page of red tape head their way . they will have see the Minister yesterday , ask to name a single small business who support the Bill , reel off the name of three large one , two of which turn out not to support it anyway and the third be a quote from the chief inclusion officer at the Co - op . my right hon . friend the Member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) put it well yesterday when he say the Government plan to increase the number of small business by start with large one and make they small . no one who care about Parliament legislate well can be proud of how we have get here : a rush bill which be introduce at half the length to which it have now grow ; an impact assessment which the Regulatory Policy Committee describe as not fit for purpose ; over 260 page of amendment , few of which be scrutinize in Committee ; and speech in favour that have lean heavily in support of the trade union who stand to gain so much financially from the Bill . but my final word go to the real — [ interruption . ] I can do some more . the final word go to the real victim — [ interruption . ] they do not want to hear it , Madam Deputy Speaker . the final word go to the real victim of this Bill . face with this legislation , employer will take few risk on new employee . as a result , this Bill will hit young people disproportionately hard . they do not have the track record to rely on someone give they the chance , a first step into the world of work . unlike so many Labour Members , whose first job be at a comfortable desk in TUC Congress House , my first job be at a supermarket . that company be able to take a risk on a young Andrew Griffith with no career experience ; it be able to take that chance because it know that I could not start work in the morning and then file an employment tribunal claim in the afternoon . I know that for many Labour Cabinet member career experience on their cv be a sensitive topic , but that do not excuse what be a vindictive attack on the next generation . the truth be that Labour do not understand business . they do not understand what it take to grow ; they never have and they never will . every Labour Government have leave office with unemployment high than when they start , and that be why we can not support this terrible Bill . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Ellie chown Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Anna Turley Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 333 , Noes 100 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . it have come to my attention that in a speech that I give on 28 April 2014 , record in column 614 of Hansard , on the subject of high - speed rail , I make a reference to my experience of use our local transport system in Greater Manchester when " I work as a solicitor in Manchester city centre . " — [ Official Report , 28 April 2014 ; Vol . 579 , c . 614 . ] I should have make it clear that , specifically , that be a reference to be at the time a trainee solicitor . this be an inadvertent error and , although the speech be over a decade ago , as it have be bring to my attention , I would like to formally correct the record , and I seek your advice on do so . I thank the right hon . member for give advance notice of his point of order and for place his correction on the record . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Employment and Training Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Industrial Training Levy ( Construction Industry Training Board ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 5 February , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . delegate LEGISLATION ( COMMITTEES ) Local Government Ordered , that the Local Authorities ( change to year of Ordinary Elections ) ( England ) Order 2025 ( SI , 2025 , no . 137 ) , a copy of which be lay before this House on 11 February , be refer to a Delegated Legislation Committee . — ( Lucy Powell . ) delegate Legislation ( Church of England ( General Synod ) ( measure ) ) order , that the measure pass by the General Synod of the Church of England , entitle Church Funds Investment Measure ( HC 772 ) , a copy of which be lay before this House on 11 March , be refer to a Delegated Legislation Committee . — ( Lucy Powell . ) order , that the measure pass by the General Synod of the Church of England , entitle Chancel Repair ( Church Commissioners ' Liability ) measure ( HC 773 ) , a copy of which be lay before this House on 11 March , be refer to a Delegated Legislation Committee . — ( Lucy Powell . ) Swann Report : 40th Anniversary Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) this month mark the 40th anniversary of the publication of the groundbreake Swann report " education for all " . the first of its kind , the report be commission to examine disparity in educational attainment and experience among ethnic minority pupil , and make recommendation to tackle institutional racism in the education system . the inquiry , lead by Lord Swann , be launch in response to a number of campaign against racism in education , in particular the high - profile scandal of educationally subnormal — ESN — school that disproportionately remove high number of black caribbean child from mainstream education setting , and wrongly label they educationally subnormal . a mixture of education policy and racist attitude be responsible for this shocking discrimination . the 1960 be a time of rise immigration , with the post - war british empire ' s invitation to the Windrush generation of worker from the Caribbean and its other colony to rebuild Britain . it be also a time of significant racist backlash , with the overt racism of Enoch Powell and the notion of racial superiority that gain traction in the political mainstream . these idea work their way into our national education policy , with the aim of create and maintain a two - tier labour force and a deliberately under - educate black population to fill all the menial job that white Brits do not want . this significant miscarriage of justice take place in the 1960 and 1970 , and see hundred of black — mostly caribbean — child wrongly send to school that be mean for pupil with severe physical and mental disability . these school have exist since the 1940 , due to the provision , under the Education Act 1944 , of appropriate school for pupil with severe mental or physical disability . but by the late 1960 , almost 30 % of pupil in ESN school in London be black immigrant child , compare with 15 % in mainstream school . it be clear that decision be be make by teacher , educational psychologist and local education authority to place these child in ESN school for reason other than mental or physical disability . although parent be aware that their child be be force to struggle against a racist system , most be isolate and not give the information that they need to make informed decision about their child ' s education . it be not until an Inner London Education Authority report be leak that the true extent of this shocking discrimination be reveal . grenadian educator Bernard Coard take the initiative to write and publish the groundbreaking pamphlet " how the West indian child be make educationally subnormal in the british school system " , make the leak ILEA information accessible to parent and community . mass community mobilisation as a result of Coard ' s pamphlet inspire parent and community organisation to campaign against the now undeniable institutional racism in british school . that force the Government to respond , and these school be eventually shut down in the early 1980 . publish in March 1985 , Swann ' s report confirm Coard ' s analysis : the persistence of racist stereotype , biased IQ test , a deep misunderstanding of culture and language , and bias in teacher expectation , disciplinary practice and curriculum content be create significant barrier to education for black child . it challenge the racist myth that black child be less intelligent than their white counterpart , and recognise instead that the structural racism embed in the british education system be disadvantage they . inadequate support for pupil with English as a second language , a lack of diversity in the curriculum , and a significant disconnect between school and parent from ethnic minority background be identify as further barrier to black child achieve their full academic potential . I commend the hon . Lady for secure the debate . I speak to she beforehand to ask permission to intervene . I look at the Swann report , which she have outline very clearly . do she agree that although substantial stride have be take since that eye - opening report , the learning curve for the integration and understanding that we all wish to see must continue , as we strive to ensure that each of we can claim the good of british education , incorporate our own ethnic background and rich cultural history and heritage ? thing be well , but there be still a lot more to do . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . however , as I will say later in my speech , I do not think that thing have substantially improve , as he suggest , for lot of black child in our education system . the report produce several key recommendation , include diversify and decolonise the curriculum , more diversity in teacher recruitment , anti - racism training for teacher , more resource for language support , well data collection and monitoring , and a well approach to work with parent and community to build trust and encourage active participation in pupil ' education . predictably , the Thatcher Government do little to progress those recommendation . however , the follow Labour Government take some of the lesson learn as a framework for our Race Relations ( Amendment ) Act 2000 , particularly the introduction of the duty for public institution , include school , to promote racial equality . however , we know that many racist barrier still exist in education — from disparity in educational attainment to the school - to - prison pipeline , the adultification of black pupil , to the presence of police in school and the need for a truly anti - racist curriculum . today ' s pattern of racism , segregation and exclusion in education have evolve directly from the policy and attitude that drive the ESN scandal . the closure of ESN school in the 1980 lead directly to a rapid expansion in the use of school exclusion . we begin to see high number incarcerate in prison , and the expansion of the use of set and tiere in education , whereby certain group of child be increasingly deny the opportunity to sit exam at certain level and then the opportunity to progress in educational setting , include university . the establishment of pupil referral unit be recognise as another method of systematic exclusion from education . we must be clear : the use of pru and exclusion be a symptom of failure of the education system . the disruptive behaviour of a child be a cry for help , not a crime . an education system that do not respond with care and support be an education system that be break . the number of exclusion have soar in recent year , with child as young as five be kick out of school . draconian behavioural policy disproportionately impact on poor child , those live in care , and those from black caribbean , mixed and Gypsy , Roma and Traveller background . Swann ' s recommendation for an inclusive education system be more important today , and we must take this opportunity to update the lesson learn and apply they to our current system . the societal impact be still as relevant today as it be in the 1960 and 1970 . lesson must be learn on the 40th anniversary of the Swann report in order to put an end to this systemic discrimination . evidence of the scale of the injustice of child be force needlessly into ESN school in the 1960 and 1970 be scarce , but we do know about the impact that misclassification as educationally subnormal have have on survivor , some of whom have join we in the Public Gallery . I would like to take this opportunity to thank they for all their work in expose this scandal and campaign to raise awareness of the racial injustice that they suffer . their work have already make a huge difference , and they have my commitment to keep fight for the justice and dignity that they deserve . we hear from some of the survivor at the event I hold yesterday in Parliament . we hear from Noel Gordon , who tell we that he be wrongly misclassifie as educationally subnormal after a chain of event start with he be diagnose at the age of four with sickle cell . he describe be bully and abuse by teacher , run away from school and his mum fight tooth and nail to get he out , but to no avail . through his determination , he have achieve several qualification include a degree . we hear from Maisie Barrett , who be a natural creative . she describe how she need support with her academic skill and her stutter , but those resource be and still be systematically deny to black child . she have say that her grandchild be a victim of today ' s SEND system , just like she be a victim of ESN . she tell we that if she have receive a proper education , she might have pursue her dream and migrate to Jamaica , and fight for recognition for be wrongly classify as educationally subnormal . we hear from Rene Stephens , who be expel from his mainstream secondary school after his teacher assault he and be send to an ESN school that neglect his academic development . he leave school with no qualification . deprive of education and support , he have now spend 18 year in and out of the criminal justice system due to his misclassification . he be force to abandon his dream of become head chef at the Savoy hotel . he say he continue to struggle with societal participation as a direct consequence of be deny a proper secondary education . we hear from Denise Davidson , who describe how , even in her innocence as a young girl , she realise that her school be different to other school . she remember challenge her educational psychologist , and describe how her experience now help she as a child ' s social worker to support vulnerable child in similar position . this be not only an historic injustice ; it be a live one for all who go through it . Most left school at 16 or early , unable to read , write or count , and be deny the opportunity to thrive and achieve their full potential . the survivor of ESN still have significant problem with self - worth and with access meaningful , well - pay work after they be deny an education . I thank the hon . member for her excellent speech and for the brilliant event that be organise last night . do she agree that many brave black parent in the late 1960 , and even early than that , recognise the abominable way in which their child be be treat , include people like Bernard Coard who lead the campaign against the banding policy in Haringey ? at that time , black child be unfairly treat and classify in the way that the hon . Member have describe , and we should pay tribute to the brave work of those people and acknowledge the abuse that those family suffer because they stand up for their right . her debate today and the meeting she hold last night be a testament to the effort that they put in all those year ago . I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention , and I totally agree with he about the amazing work that Bernard Coard and all those family be involve in as they try to seek justice and to enable their child to fulfil their potential . that need to be recognise . opportunity to access meaningful , well - pay work be deny to those child , and they continue to face financial hardship because of the barrier to work for those without an education . this have have an impact on their family . a few have succeed in the face of adversity , gain qualification and well job . that be a testament to their strength and determination , but they should never have have to struggle in this way . I would like to take this opportunity to recognise all those whose campaigning help to get we here today , as well as the incredible campaigner who be misclassifie as ESN and who be fight for justice . my thank go to Bernard Coard , who pioneer this campaign ; to the educator and anti - racist campaigner Gus John for a lifetime of work challenging racism in the british education system ; and to all those parent and community who organise and fight for change so that our child could receive fair and equal treatment and thrive and achieve their full potential . the incredible no More exclusion group have do invaluable work shine a light on the injustice of the current system of exclusion , and challenge the racist policy and educational segregation that drive the school - to - prison pipeline . I want to recognise the work of Frances Swaine and Leigh Day solicitor in their pursuit of justice for the survivor , and thank Professor Leslie Thomas KC , Dr Cynthia Pinto and Professor Christine Callender for their pioneering work in this area . I also recognise the incredible work of journalist and producer Lyttanya Shannon and Sir Steve McQueen for expose this scandal with the BBC documentary , " subnormal : a british Scandal " and the incredible " Small Axe " series . we have see with " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " and Jimmy McGovern ' s " Common " just how crucial tv and film can be in bring miscarriage of justice to light , and I hope the same will prove to be true here and that the momentum from this campaign and these drama will secure justice for those impact and change a system still produce the same racist outcome today . I hope the Minister will join I today in recognise the wrong that be do to the survivor of ESN . a public inquiry into the scandal of ESN school be necessary , not only to secure justice for the victim of these historical discriminatory policy , but for we to understand how systemic racism and discrimination take form in our current education system and how we can eradicate they . the survivor and campaigner be call on the Government to give due consideration to a public inquiry , four decade on from the first public inquiry report into racism in education , to learn the lesson of the past and secure justice for all those whose life be impact and who continue to suffer . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) on secure this important and , indeed , timely debate on the 40th anniversary of the Swann report . the report be an important and stark reminder of the unacceptable treatment of young people , the majority of whom be from the Caribbean , who be inappropriately place in so - call educationally subnormal school during the 1960 and 1970 . my hon . Friend speak passionately when share the experience of Noel , Maisie , Rene and Denise , ensure that their voice be hear . the report serve as a timely reminder to all of we that the mistake that be make must never be repeat and that we must never be complacent . no child or young people today should suffer from the structural barrier and entrench racism that hold back many in previous generation , and that legacy prevail today . let it be clear that there be no place for hate or prejudice in our education system , and this Government be determined to root out structural inequality , as well as direct discrimination , to create a genuinely level playing field . we can not reflect on the Swann report without acknowledge the history of so - call educationally subnormal school . we owe it to the campaigner who expose this and refuse to accept that these child be somehow less capable but rather the victim of racism . my hon . friend mention people like Bernard Coard , and more recently the campaign have rightly receive renew attention through the work of the filmmaker Sir Steve McQueen , whose documentary " subnormal : a british Scandal " shed light on the impact of these policy . it have also spark important conversation about the ongoing challenge face by black and ethnic minority student in our education system . Britain have make stride in tackle overt racial discrimination over the past half century , but despite progress , there be no room for complacency or , indeed , self - congratulation . that be why this Government want to ensure that whoever you be and wherever you come from , Britain will respect your contribution and give you a fair chance to get on in life . our opportunity mission will build opportunity for all by set up every child for the good start in life , help they to achieve and thrive at school , build skill , and achieve growth and family security . our work on the opportunity mission will focus cross - government attention and collaboration on ensure that every child and young person truly believe that success belong to they . we be more committed than ever to tackle the disparity in educational outcome that persist . the picture of educational achievement across ethnic group be complex , and different social , economic and cultural factor contribute to that , include parental income , parental career and educational achievement , geography , family structure and attitude to education in the family and wide community . while overall the outcome of some ethnic group now compare positively with national average outcome , for some group , outcome be significantly below average , or bad than for other group throughout the education system , and that include black caribbean child . one of the most significant factor affect pupil attainment , which cut across all ethnicity , be economic disadvantage . international study show that attainment have broadly improve or remain stable over the last 30 year . however , disadvantaged pupil persistently perform significantly bad on average than their peer at all stage of their education , and there be considerable variation in attainment by region and ethnicity . that be just not acceptable , and it why this Government ' s opportunity mission will break down barrier and the unfair link between background and success . we be determined to help all child achieve and thrive . high and rise standard be at the heart of the mission , and be key to unlock strong outcome . we will deliver those improvement through excellent teaching and leadership ; a high - quality curriculum that seek to deliver a rich , broad , inclusive and innovative education that ready young people for life and work , but that reflect the issue and diversity of our society , ensure that all child and young people be represent ; new regional improvement for standard and excellence — rise — team ; and a system that remove the barrier to learn that hold far too many child back . the Department for Education acknowledge that some group of child have a great likelihood of exclusion than other . local context mean that there be different pattern across the country , but we be determined to get to grip with the cause of exclusion to ensure that every child , no matter their background , can succeed . we have already commit to provide access to specialist mental health professional in every school . we want early intervention in mainstream school for all pupil , but particularly those at risk of exclusion . we be absolutely committed to improve inclusivity and expertise in mainstream school , and to strengthen accountability by reform Ofsted . we will enhance the inspection regime by replace the single headline grade with a new report card system , tell parent how school be perform , and introduce a new annual review of safeguarding , attendance and pupil movement , include off - rolling . one of the lesson learn through the work that people have do on the ESN scandal be about the role of unconscious bias . we hear from parent , expert , teacher , educational psychologist and other that unconscious bias have the same cause as exclusion . one of the reason why people be call for an inquiry be to look at the lesson that can be learn by ofsted and other agency about how we support school and address their practice . the right hon . Gentleman raise an important point . we have learn a lot in the past 40 year about unconscious bias and its impact . I will come on to the point he raise about the public inquiry , and the development over the year — the protection put in place , which we need to work to enforce . first , I want to touch on the challenge in the special educational need and disability system today . we have a clear commitment to address those challenge . we be prioritise early intervention and inclusive provision in mainstream setting , because we know that early intervention will prevent unmet need from escalate . it will support all child and young people in achieve their goal , prevent the gap in achievement from grow , and get that support to child at the very early stage , so that issue do not escalate . underpin our ambition to create a fairer society be the Equality Act 2010 , which enshrine in law that school must not discriminate , in a number of respect , against a pupil on the ground of a protect characteristic . part 6 , chapter 1 of the Act ensure fair treatment for all pupil by prohibit school from discriminate against , harass or victimise pupil when it come to education , access to benefit , facility and service , exclusion , and other detriment . additionally , the public sector equality duty require school to eliminate discrimination , advance equality of opportunity and foster good relation among people of all characteristic . that be what will underpin the improvement that we need to see . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) for secure this debate ; she have make important point . the voice of the people affect 40 year ago will never have be hear . do the Minister agree that poverty and deprivation — she talk about their impact on educational standard — often make it challenge for people to get their voice hear when there be problem ? on the Equality Act , do she agree that in make the system fair , we must ensure that when there be problem , people can speak out and know that they will be hear ? my hon . friend raise a really important point . one of the reason why we be so focused on early intervention , particularly for child who have experience a more socioeconomically disadvantaged start to life , be to help child find their voice , so that they can speak up and be a part of the national conversation . that be what we want for every child in our education system . I be conscious of time , and I want to address the point that my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside raise about the public inquiry . the Government do not currently plan to establish a public inquiry on the policy framework surround the placement of child in school for the so - call educationally subnormal in the 1960 and 1970 . the 40th anniversary of the Swann report be a timely reminder to reflect on the progress that have be make , but also to ensure that mistake make at that time be never repeat . it remind we that there be always way in which we must go far to ensure that no child or young people today suffer from the structural barrier and entrench racism that hold too many of our young people back in previous generation . I reassure my hon . friend that we be not complacent ; we be commit to deliver a fairer society with well opportunity for all . we firmly believe that every child should know that success belong to they , which be why we must break down the barrier to opportunity . we be commit to change the school system so that every child can achieve and thrive . will my hon . friend give way ? I will . I have maybe a few second . I just want to ask my hon . friend whether she could provide some rationale for why the Government have not decide to go down the route of a public inquiry . I think we be out of time , but I be suppose to meet my hon . friend next week . we can discuss this in more detail then , when we will have more time , but I look forward to continue to work with she to redress race disparity and work on these issue , which I know she be rightly incredibly passionate about . question put and agree to . House adjourn .