prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) . the House proceed to a Division . the Serjeant at arm need to investigate the delay in the Lobby , please . Adam Thompson Josh Fenton - Glynn Gareth Snell Stuart Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Johanna Baxter Si â n Berry Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Rachel Blake Andrew Bowie Alistair carn Christopher Chope Ellie Chowns Feryal Clark Deirdre Costigan Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Harriet Cross Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Kate Dearden Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Miatta Fahnbulleh Stephen Flynn Vicky Foxcroft Mark Francois Stephen Gethins Lilian Greenwood Carolyn Harris Meg Hillier Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Adam Jogee Gerald Jones Naushabah Khan Katie Lam Peter Lamb Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Andrew Lewin Seamus Logan Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Keir Mather Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Stephen Morgan Ian Murray Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Richard Quigley Shivani Raja Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Gregory Stafford Alison Taylor Rachel Taylor Stephen Timms Nick Timothy Henry Tufnell Harpreet Uppal Melanie Ward James Wild Pete Wishart Sean Woodcock Steve Yemm Christian Wakeford Anna McMorrin the House have divide : Ayes 1 , Noes 73 . question accordingly negative . devolution ( Immigration ) ( Scotland ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . may I start by give thank to you , Mr Speaker , and colleague who be attend today , and in particular the staff of the House of Commons for their assistance ? I think it be fair to acknowledge that today ' s debate be slightly unexpected , so I be particularly grateful for all the help that I have receive and that your team have provide over the past few day . it might be unexpected , but this be nevertheless a very timely debate on Scotland ' s particular need . it also come the day after the election of Scotland ' s new councillor . I want to give a shout - out to Lynda Holton , who win the by - election in Glenrothes last night with , I think , the SNP ' s second high share of the vote ever in the area and labour ' s second or low share of the vote ever . I think that speak to the disappointment feel in recent time and to the notion that sometimes politician in this place do not adequately address the need of Scotland or other part of the United Kingdom . before I get to the substance of my speech , I want to be clear about something . give the nature of the Bill , I will concede that it be not for everyone . it be a short Bill and , to be fair , it be not for everybody ; but , to repeat the point that member make in the second Reading debate on the assist die Bill , we can get into the detail later on . I want to be clear : all of we across the Chamber can disagree on a wide range of area , but I be up for work with colleague from across the House , particularly Scottish Labour , to amend the Bill , to find some common ground and to meet the commitment that Scottish Labour have already make , which be pertinent and relate to this Bill . I be glad that we have this valuable time . we do not always get the time to debate area of particular interest to Scotland . it be ironic that I have be give time to debate something that relate to SNP policy , but also to labour policy and , to a certain extent , to liberal Democrat policy — it be unfortunate that the liberal Democrats have be unable to attend today . this issue have become particularly apparent give the catastrophe visit on our economy and our citizen as a direct consequence of leave the EU . when I say that , I know that I do not say anything that be particularly controversial . I remember with fondness my time work closely with the Secretary of State for Scotland , when he be far sight enough to see the utter catastrophe that would be visit on Scotland and the rest of the UK if we embrace a hard Brexit . I value the time work with he on that . I have since be a bit surprised that he have subsequently embrace that hard Tory Brexit . I know that thing change in politic — we take the circumstance when they change — but I be not entirely sure what have change for the positive since we leave the EU in 2016 : the economy have tank ; right and opportunity have be take away from our citizen ; and we have lose billion — £ 40 billion a year — to the Exchequer . those be not just my number . on that point , before I mention another Labour figure , I will give way to the hon . Lady . I thank the hon . member for give way . he be right to talk about grow the economy . do he agree that if the Scottish Government have use the power they actually have to grow the scottish economy between 2012 and 2023 , it would now be £ 8 . 5 billion large and my constituent would be much well off ? I be a great admirer of the hon . Lady — she join I on the Russia sanction list this week and I pay credit to she for her work for the child of Ukraine — but I be somewhat surprised that , give those growth figure , she have now turn out in favour of independence ! we all know what happen when Scotland remain part of the UK and the hit that we take . it be disappointing that Labour have embrace that . I will take a second intervention before I make some progress . my hon . friend raise an interesting point about the epiphany the Secretary of State for Scotland have have in the intervene decade about the merit and de - merit of Brexit . be it not the case that no matter what this Minister think — or what any other Minister think in any british Government , scottish or otherwise — they be not in thrall to the reality of the economy ; they be in thrall to voter in middle England ? as usual , my hon . friend make an excellent point . I want to come on to the way in which we discuss and debate migration . migration be a good thing . it benefit all of we . all of we throughout time have benefit from migration . I have be deeply disappoint by — I be sorry to say , Mr Speaker — the poison that often seep into our rhetoric whenever we discuss this issue . we need to be honest : nobody be talk about uncontrolle migration and we need a migration policy . I want to talk about some of the industry that have talk to I , in a really sensible way that I think this House should listen to , about how we deal with migration . I say to the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) that I would mention Labour . analysis by the Labour Mayor of London reckon that Brexit , which this Government have embrace — I do not know what happen to the Secretary of State for Scotland ; I consider he a colleague — lose we £ 40 billion a year . so when the Government be make cut to the winter fuel allowance and cut to the disabled , that be all to go and pay for a Brexit that nobody vote for and nobody want . while I be talk about people embrace a hard Tory Brexit , I want to refer to a former Member of this place , Michael Gove . even before the Brexit vote , the architect of Brexit could see the damage that would be cause to Scotland ' s economy . what do the architect say ? " if , in the course of the negotiation , the Scottish Parliament want to play a role in decide how a visa system could work , much as it work in other part of the European Economic Area , then that be something we ' ll look into . " he go on to say that " the number who would come in the future would be decide by the Westminster Parliament and the Holyrood Parliament work together . " that be a commitment make by a Conservative Minister prior to the Brexit referendum . I remember listen to it on Radio Scotland . I be loath to quote Michael Gove . frankly , when the history be write of this place hence , there can be few politician who , along with former Prime Minister Johnson , will have cause as much damage . his legacy will be one of cost and damage economically , as well as in term of opportunity for our young people . but in that moment of self - reflection , Mr Gove do say that Scotland need a particular solution . I also think that I would quote he because I be go to appeal to Scottish Labour today , and they appear to have embrace Michael Gove . they be now get prepare to stick he in the House of Lords to make he an unelected bureaucrat for life — something he rail against . the Secretary of State be make face ; I be not sure if he have sign off on that yet , or how keen he be on it , but the Government , have hear what Mr Gove say about unelected bureaucrat , be about to stick he in the Lords . I understand from the Press and Journal — I believe everything that I read there — that he be about to become Lord Gove of Torry . I be not sure what the good people of Torry think of that , or what they have do to deserve it — my right hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) will have a well idea than I do — but I be not sure they will think an awful lot of that . have embrace a hard Tory Brexit , Scottish Labour be now — will the hon . member give way ? oh , here we go ! if you can tell I why on earth Labour be put Michael Gove in the House of Lords , I will gladly give way . order . can I remind the hon . Gentleman to do less you - ing , please ? I thank the hon . gentleman for indulge I a second time . he reference Brexit . can he clarify for the House why his party spend less on campaign against Brexit than on a local by - election campaign in Scotland ? the newfound conversion to oppose Brexit might be welcome , but that clarification would be helpful . I be glad to respond to that . I be deputy director of our Remain campaign , and I be delighted when not only do every part of Scotland vote overwhelmingly to remain in the EU , but every local authority area vote to remain in the EU — even those that have vote against join the EU . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . could you give guidance on whether re - run the Brexit debate from 10 year ago be in any way link to a single clause of this Bill from the Scottish National party ? that be not a point of order . the Bill have a broad scope , so it do allow for some broadness in the debate . I be not that surprised that the Labour party want to close down a debate on Brexit . the hon . Member be seek to spare his party its blush — in particular Scottish Labour — and I respect he for that . we know why we need to open up that debate . the Treasury will tell we why : it be because of how much money Brexit be cost our public service . our young people know why : it be because of the opportunity Brexit be cost they . I listen to the hon . member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) yesterday in Westminster Hall . he make a good speech in which he try to talk about opportunity for young people through a youth mobility scheme that he endorse , but he also speak of cap the number of young people who could participate , so that few young people have the freedom of movement that both he and I enjoy . what a paucity of ambition from the Labour party for our young people , who have be leave with few right . I expect that from the conservative party , but not in my wildest dream would I have expect it from the Labour party , which now want to crow about the situation and the cap on young people . the Westminster Hall debate be interesting , and be largely conduct in good spirit , though I think his speech slightly misjudge the tone of Westminster Hall . I and a number of Labour parliamentarian have be look for practical step to move forward our relationship with the European Union . we have have 15 year of move backwards under the Conservatives , and we have now hear a speech that seem to be detach from reality . my job — our job on the Labour Benches — be to get a strong deal with the European Union . one of the key first step , we think , be a visa - base youth mobility system , and I be proud of that . I be glad the hon . member be proud of the opportunity he will be deny young people by go ahead with Labour ' s plan . I find that debate yesterday slightly frustrating . my hon . friend will have sit through similar debate in which Labour Member after Labour Member — in fairness , there be a number of they ; they win the election , after all — talk about how dreadful Brexit be and the damage it do to our young people , university , small and medium - sized enterprise , and security , and to Britain ' s place in the world . but what be the Government do about it ? nothing . they be embrace the hard of hard brexit . they could rejoin the custom union and reintroduce freedom , to bring benefit to citizen the length and breadth of the UK . I sit on the Opposition Benches , behind SNP Members , during those long , tumultuous day of the Brexit debate , and I remember watch SNP Member after SNP Member game the system to push we towards a no - deal Brexit , in the hope that the Government of the time would abandon the plan . there be Labour Members who argue consistently that we should adopt plan and deal ; SNP Members vote against that at every opportunity because their narrow grievance politic be more important than a good deal for this country . the hon . member be a bear - again Brexiteer , and he have take on the nonsense of Brexiteers . he should have a look at the European Union ( Withdrawal ) ( no . 2 ) Act 2019 , pass by this House , which ban a no - deal Brexit , which he say he be push on . who be one of the co - author of that Bill ? I be . I work with Labour colleague , Liberal Democrat colleague , Green colleague and sdlp colleague to stop the damaging " no deal " that Brexiteers embrace ; he have embrace it , and Boris Johnson embrace it . let I move on to Scottish Labour ; we have hear quite enough nonsense from the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) today . I be one of the author of the Bill that we call the Benn - Burt Act because of the fine work do by those Members — order . may I remind the hon . Gentleman that the Bill be an immigration Bill ? while I do say that the scope be quite wide , will he please try to stick to immigration ? you be quite right , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I be keen to knock on the head some of the issue raise by the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central . let I talk about Scottish labour ' s commitment . I will quote the leader of the Scottish Labour Party , Anas Sarwar . I do not always do this , and I know that the Secretary of State do not like talk about he — he frequently disregard he — but let I at least give Anas Sarwar his place . he say : " I ' ve have a number of conversation with Yvette Cooper and UK colleague in the run - up to the election and since the election . they already want to reform the Migration Advisory Committee to make sure there be proper scottish representation . they recognise there be different migration need in different part of the country " . as for reach out a bit more to other colleague , not everything in the Bill be for everybody in this House , but the Bill give we an opportunity to meet commitment make . we could do that on Third Reading . we could introduce amendment and have a Bill team . I would love to have really good , strong Scottish Labour representation on that . [ interruption . ] I would also like to have conservative representation on it ; let the team be reflective of who be in the House . I would be generous to the party of the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) — almost as generous as the Labour party regularly be to his party . let I quote Scottish Labour ' s deputy leader . Jackie Baillie say : " I would expect government to work together , to talk to each other , to respond to each other ' s need … at the moment there be no plan for one " — this be say pre - election — " but I think if you have government take common - sense approach that an incoming labour government would do , then dialogue will continue . " the Secretary of State will have the opportunity to talk about this today , and I very much look forward to an update on where he be on the talk . the Bill give precious time to he , and to the office of other Secretary of States , and give the rest of we time to meet the need of the scottish sector . I be glad to see the hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) in his place ; I welcome he . as he have rightly say , when it come to immigration policy , one size do not fit all . it should not be beyond we to devise way to attract more people to work and settle here . he have talk effectively about the challenge for the rural and island community that he represent , and I be glad to hear his productive intervention on that . I hope that he be able to have conversation with his hon . friend about that . let I quote from the scottish Labour manifesto : " we will work with the Scottish Government when design workforce plan for different sector . this will ensure our migration and skill policy work for every part of the UK . " I be strike by the hon . Gentleman ' s interest in make sure that young people get the opportunity that they deserve , because in East Thanet — far away from Scotland — we be deeply concerned that one in 10 young people be out of education , employment or training . I wonder what he have to say about the SNP ' s record on this issue , give that one in six young people be out of education , employment or training in Scotland . the hon . Lady make a good point — how can we provide opportunity for young people ? she will also know that right now , we be provide few opportunity for young people . Scotland be work very effectively on have positive destination , include through the great work of Skills Development Scotland . that speak to the migration debate we have have in recent year . Migration have drive our policy and our economic growth for century , yet labour be lean into the reform agenda — it be very disappointing that Reform member be not in their place — which be so poisonous to our political rhetoric . Migration and refugee be two entirely separate issue . the hon . Lady will also be aware of the tragic small boat issue , which we talk about at length , although we do not talk about migration as a whole . I want we to have a more sensible debate on migration . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not take the hon . Lady ' s intervention just now . I very much look forward to the contribution of the hon . member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) . I know Kent well , and I think there will be a valuable contribution to be make from that part of the United Kingdom , include on the impact that Brexit — I know that she talk about this issue — have have on young people in her area . the Liberal Democrats have traditionally talk about great decentralisation of government . that be a point that they stand on , have a federal party . I would have love to have take an intervention from a Liberal Democrat Member today , but of course , they be not here . Alex Cole - Hamilton , the leader of the Liberal Democrats in Scotland , accept that immigration be essential for maintain growth , but also for the sustainability of service — I will talk about that in a moment . he have also talk about how we need " both of Scotland ' s government to work together " on migration " to ensure that rule be sensitive to the skill that be need in every corner of these island and in every sector of our economy . " — [ Scottish Parliament Official Report , 9 January 2025 ; c . 69 . ] we can pick that up in Committee , if we can work together . I note talk at the Liberal Democrat conference about a special visa for those flee Donald Trump . I be not sure what representation the Liberal Democrats have make to the Government on that — maybe the Secretary of State can tell we — but there be always opportunity to be have . I move on to a point of common ground . I concede that we be not all on the same page . there be difference on this issue , but that be the whole point of Parliament . we come together to debate and see whether we can find solution . sometimes , the majoritarian nature of this place do not help . I concede that Labour and Scottish Labour win the election , and I congratulate they and the Prime Minister on that . we have see what have happen to their poll number since , but they win the election . however , they do so base on a small percentage of vote . unfortunately , that be the system we have . I ask Labour Members to not make the same mistake that the Conservatives do , particularly Boris Johnson ' s Conservatives , and to appreciate that 34 % or 35 % of the vote be not a majority . it might give Labour a majority of seat , but the party need to listen to other party , other bit of the country and all sector . that be crucial . we can debate and discuss , and I can quote bit from Scottish Labour manifesto , from the SNP , from the Scottish Liberal Democrats and — yes — even the Conservatives , but we all have a responsibility to try to listen to the sector that be do such valuable work . we all try to do so in our different way , include in our constituency , which be important . for example , this week , I go to East Scryne farm in Angus , just outside Carnoustie , and speak to a local farmer about the value of migration to the berry industry — I know other member will have do similar . a number of we will have enjoy berry from Angus over our breakfast this morning . and Perthshire . we will also have enjoy berry from Perthshire — and even Aberdeenshire . all of that depend on migration . I know that , in order to improve their work here , member will try , whenever possible , to engage with and listen to constituent . I be not ask we all to come to the same conclusion , but it be in that engagement that we all seek to do our work well . the hospitality and tourism industry be vital for rural and remote community , for every sector in Scotland and elsewhere in the UK . Leon Thompson , the executive director of UKHospitality Scotland , say : " the hospitality and tourism industry across Scotland have be call for a Scotland visa for some time . we believe it really be one of the way in which we can help address the skill and workforce shortage that we have in the industry . " the Scottish Tourism Alliance say : " failure to find a tailor solution risk have a further detrimental impact on the economy and opportunity for economic growth " as staff shortage be lead to tourism and hospitality business close for long outside the summer visit season , reduce opening hour and shut down certain service , such as food offer in hotel . regardless of our own thought , we can see straightaway the impact that have on growth and the sustainability of our service . the Scottish Tourism Alliance also say : " introduce a scottish specific visa scheme not only would match immigration to the demand for certain skill " — as it have do for century — " but also encourage more people come to live and work in Scotland , particularly in rural and island community that be experience a drain in people of work age and family . " I thank the hon . member for give way and for bring forward this debate , which be interesting if nothing else . how do the SNP suggest we encourage people to live in Scotland , and particularly rural Scotland , give that anyone in Scotland earn over £ 28 , 500 pay more income tax ; local government have a £ 760 billion - odd shortfall , which affect rural community more , give how money be spend over a large area ; and Scotland have a housing crisis ? how do those thing attract people ? I will maybe leave aside some of the hon . Lady ' s sum — I be not sure whether she have be read labour briefing — but she do make a valuable point about rural area , and I acknowledge her commitment to her constituency and her rural background . I commend she for the way she conduct herself in this place . there be a number of point here . we know that bring worker to rural area , and the very high threshold to bring people into the country , be a challenge — that be not new — which be why so many rural industry have be call out for a scottish visa system to plug that gap . what be Scottish Government policy ? well , we have talk with our Labour colleague — although not , I would expect , the conservative party , for ideological reason — about have a more progressive taxation system in which those who earn less pay less , and those who earn more pay more . I will not criticise the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) , who stand for election on a conservative manifesto and win , but I be always surprised that the Labour party do not take the opportunity to endorse such a system more strongly . some 70 % of the Scottish Government ' s budget still come in the form of a block grant from Westminster — that be a huge amount . for all the talk we have hear of decentralisation , empowerment and so on , why do we not have a more sensible approach to that ? the hon . Gentleman rightly mention the block grant . if , as he say — not entirely correctly — the block grant be the large part of the scottish budget , why do he vote against the Budget in which the block grant give the Scottish Government £ 4 . 9 billion extra ? what I find strike be that the Scottish Government have not only have to receive their block grant , rather than make these decision for ourselves , which those of we on the SNP Benches would like to do , but have spend year with Tory austerity and be stare down the barrel of cut elsewhere . the Secretary of State might quote figure in term of the cash , but after year and year of Tory government that be not be help by the Labour party , by the cut that have come about as a result of Brexit , which they now endorse , by the cut to the winter fuel allowance that Labour bring in , which the Scottish Government bring in measure to offset — the bedroom tax . and the bedroom tax . [ interruption . ] the Secretary of State be chuntere from a sedentary position — I have always want to say that in this place — but in all these area the Scottish Government be offset the damage that Westminster policy have cause . for how long do we have to put up with damage Westminster policy ? this Bill be a way of offset some of the damage that have be do by a hostile environment and by Brexit , which I be astonish day and daily that the Scottish Labour party continue to endorse . let I talk about the scottish care system . all of we will benefit from the care system at some point — all of we — and we will all have love one who benefit , so the voice of that sector be particularly pertinent . Scottish Care have say : " the current UK immigration system be fail the social care sector in Scotland . the recent rule change , particularly the ban on dependent " — which have have a big impact on other sector as well — " and the incompatible increase in the minimum salary threshold , exacerbate exist recruitment challenge and pose significant risk to the sustainability and delivery of essential care service . " I talk about one bit of my constituency in Angus , and now let I talk about another bit . the Secretary of State and I have an exchange about this . we know that the ban on dependant have also have a significant impact on the high education sector . I be glad to see the convenor of the all - party parliamentary university group , the hon . member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , in his place . those of we with high education institution in our constituency — I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — will know of the damage that have be do by the ban on bring dependant to this country . care be an issue that matter deeply to I , but the problem with care be not that we be not get cheap labour from elsewhere ; it be that we be not pay care worker enough . that be one of the thing that a national care service would seek to solve . why do the SNP waste so much money — £ 28 million — on its fail national care service , rather than work across the House in good faith to deliver the care that people need ? order . I remind all member that the Bill be about why Scotland should have devolve power over immigration . I be glad if we can get back to the Bill . I be strike that Labour Members never seem to be that keen to talk about the area for which they have responsibility . they talk about the Scottish Government an awful lot but not the area for which they have responsibility . this Bill speak to a specific scottish solution that could be bring in to meet particular scottish need , and it be one that , to be fair , Scottish Labour have talk about . let I move on to talk about think - tank and other organisation . the Law Society of Scotland — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way to the Secretary of State one more time , and then I will move on to these other organisation . the hon . Gentleman have be very generous in give way when it suit he to do so . all the thing he be talk about be not include in the Bill . it be a simple , one - line Bill that would devolve the entire immigration system to Scotland . for member who might not know how the Scotland Act 1998 operate , let I explain that if a matter be contain in schedule 5 to that Act , it be reserve , and if it be not , it be deem to be devolve . this Bill be just devolve the entire immigration system , so the individual issue relate to visa that he be talk about be irrelevant to this debate . I thank the Secretary of State , because that be a valuable intervention and he raise a good point — [ interruption . ] I be glad that he be pay attention now . I raise that point at the start of the debate , when I say that this be not ideal . it be a short Bill that be propose some time ago and , as I have say , I be very open to it be amend . I hope we will vote on this today and I ask the Secretary of State to meet I so that he and I can sit down with his official , and Home Office official if they will listen to he , and bring they in . I be look to the Secretary of State and hope that he will today give that commitment to meet I so that we get something that work for his party , can work for other and can hopefully work for the sector as well . [ interruption . ] I will take that as a yes , so I be very glad and thank he for be so constructive . the hon . Gentleman have to be clear with the House about the purpose of the Bill , because we will have to vote on it today if the Division bell ring . if the Bill pass , it will merely remove immigration from schedule 5 of the Scotland Act 1998 , which would devolve immigration to the Scottish Government — yes or no ? rise — will my hon . friend give way ? I will answer the Secretary of State ' s point first and then give way . the Secretary of State have be here for long than I . I have be here long than the Secretary of State . my hon . friend say he have be here long than the Secretary of State . the Secretary of State know that this be a second reading debate . I have be keen to say that from the start . I have be say it to the medium this morning , and I say it in my letter to Anas Sarwar , which I copy to the Secretary of State . I want to do that and to make sure that my letter go to scottish leader — I be not sure how often they talk , but I want to ensure that the Secretary of State have see the letter as well . the letter talk about we come together and talk to each other . on that point , I will give way to a very experienced Member , my hon . friend the Member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way . I know that most Labour member be new to the procedure and working of this House , but the Secretary of State be not , so he will know from experience that private member ' bill be practically rewrite in Committee . my hon . friend be ask that we be allow to take the Bill through to Committee , where this can be work out . surely even the Secretary of State , who I believe have be in this House since 2010 , understand how these thing work . order . I remind the hon . Gentleman , before I call the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) to continue , that intervention should be on the Member who be speak . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . now that we have clarify that point of reference , I look forward to the vote today that the Secretary of State be commit to , and I look forward to meet he so that we can work together , because that be the right thing to do , and we will have to make concession . of course we want to see the devolution of immigration — we want to see independence . we differ from other member in this Chamber ; we accept that we have difference and that we be vote in on different manifesto . but it be not beyond the wit of man — to be fair , this be something that the hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar have already reference — to try and find a bit of common ground . now let I talk about some of the think - tank and other organisation and what they have say , because I be keen to let other member have the opportunity to speak . hear , hear . that be the most effective heckle I have hear all day , though that be not where I expect it to come from . the Law Society of Scotland say : " Bespoke visa scheme for Scotland , combine with expand international outreach activity in relation to immigration to advertise these new arrangement , would be an effective way of ensure that immigration policy meet Scotland ' s need . " Prosper , formerly the SCDI , say : " SCDI support great flexibility on immigration for Scotland to respond to its distinct demographic and employment need . . . other country " — this be something my hon . friend the Member for Perth and Kinross - shire have work on very hard — " successfully operate regional migration scheme which target the specific need of their economy and SCDI believe that there be workable option for more differentiation in the UK ' s system . " I agree with that . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I want to continue with this . Alison Evison , a former Labour councillor and former president of COSLA , say : " there be a strong unified voice across all sector in Scotland in favour of a flexible immigration system that can meet our particular economic , workforce and population need . for many year , COSLA have be call for an immigration system that can be responsive to local as well as national need and that recognise and address the challenge that we face . " finally , Reform Scotland have do a huge amount of work on this — I commend its paper to all member of the House as we seek to inform ourselves when we go through to Committee , and however we work together to populate that . it have say : " there be no reason why Westminster can not create an immigration system which take Scotland ' s different situation into account . it be important to remember that this have be do before , through the Fresh Talent Initiative " , which , in fairness , Lord McConnell on the Labour Scottish Executive work with the UK Government to do . it would not be unique — there be other decentralise approach elsewhere in the world . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Perth and Kinross - shire , whose work on the Scottish Affairs Committee , along with other hon . member , be very effective . the Committee look into the matter , and I know he will want to talk about that . a decentralised approach have be take in Canada , Australia , Belgium and elsewhere , so it be not unique . this be the Government of devolution — they talk about devolution . as Donald Dewar tell we , devolution be " a process " not a final destination . this strike I as be the next process , and it have happen elsewhere . finally , I want to go into the different conversation about migration . rise — I see a number of member want to intervene . I be glad to give way to my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) because she want to come in early and I do not take her intervention then . my hon . friend be make an important case about Scotland ' s unique need and the way that our democracy differ . to go back to the economic point , the found mission of this Labour Government be about grow the economy , so will my hon . friend explain the impact of increase migration ? what be the impact on the economy of bring more people in to do more job in the economy ? I be not an economist , but any economist would say that the impact of that be growth — it be positive . in the aftermath of leave the EU , we see a surge in migration under Boris Johnson ' s Government . member have talk about that and criticise the Conservative Government , as I have do . however , what strike I about that migration to date be that at the same time as we see a surge in migration to grow the economy — I be not say anything against that — we see a reduction in the right that we ourselves enjoy as UK citizen and a devaluation of the british passport . I may no long wish to hold a british passport — that might not be something that I want — but its devaluation have impact each and every one of we because of the loss of those right . before I finish , I will take one more point from the hon . member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) , who I know have be try to intervene . I be very grateful to the hon . member for give way . I be interested to hear what he say about the various expert talk about regional migration policy . unfortunately , my constituency suffer from a regional migration policy in live memory as the Isle of Sheppey be separate from mainland migration during both war in the previous century . that have leave a lasting impact of deep , profound socioeconomic damage to Sheppey because people could not get on or off the island , and we could not get the worker we need . that have leave a deep legacy of distrust between the island and the rest of Great Britain . we do not want to replicate that across the whole of the United Kingdom and that be why I oppose the Bill . I know the Isle of Sheppey . I know Kent very well : the kingdom of Kent be a fine county — the garden of England . I know some of the challenge that the hon . Gentleman rightly raise . he be represent his constituent very effectively in do so and I be grateful to he not just for raise the issue , but the way in which he raise it . Kent be a fine place . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be try to answer the point raise by the hon . member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey . Kent be not Scotland and Scotland be not an island . we have some fine island , as my hon . friend the Member for Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber ( Brendan o ' Hara ) be keen to reminds we on a regular basis , but they be not the same . to compare the Isle of Sheppey with Scotland be a false comparison . I take the hon . Gentleman ' s point and he be right to raise it — the value of these kind of debate be that we can have such exchange . the reason that I go through what have be say by all the think - tank , the expert and the sector — I could have go on for long , but I suspect you , Madam Deputy Speaker , would have haul I up for that — be because there be such a body of evidence in Scotland around the issue . that be why the idea have have such a serious reading from every single party in Scotland . on that point , do my hon . friend agree that it be that strength of cross - sector agreement in Scotland that leave so many people disappoint ? their expectation and hope be raise that a change of Government in this place would lead to a change in migration policy , so do that not make it essential that Scotland ' s interest in relation to this issue be serve by power rest in Holyrood , rather than the Government here ? my right hon . friend be right . I want to see these power rest in Holyrood — that will surprise nobody — and he and I absolutely agree on that . I have also open up this matter by say , " you can amend . you can change . " I do not want my hon . friend the Member for Perth and Kinross - shire to have to school the Secretary of State again on process , but that be something that we can do . I say in the spirit of collegiality that I look forward to work with the Secretary of State on this issue , because I think we can find common ground . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will finish with a conversation on migration , but I will take one more intervention , because I want to hear the perspective of another Member from elsewhere in the UK . the hon . Member make the point that there be a body of evidence in favour of his Bill . I point he to another body of evidence : the fact that there be 100 , 000 child in Scotland who do not have a home to call their own . at the same time , we have child in school in Scotland with the wide poverty - relate attainment gap ever . that be the body of evidence that we need to look to . do he agree that his party would be well off look at address those issue to attract worker to Scotland , rather than create more red tape for business ? I have to say I be a bit strike by that , when the Government be bring in their cut to the disabled , which will push more child in Scotland into poverty . that be a Westminster policy drive scottish child poverty , at the same time that we have UN report talk about the benefit of the scottish child payment . if that policy be bring in across the UK , it would take ten of thousand of child , include those in the hon . Lady ' s constituency , out of poverty . we know that that would happen . I be glad that that be the final point , because it talk to I of the paucity of ambition we have see from the Labour party , which I find disappointing and which will drive more child into poverty through cut to the disabled . if it simply replicate what we do in Scotland with the scottish child payment , there could be benefit throughout the United Kingdom . I look at the country around we that have take a more positive approach to european integration and to work with other country — look at Ireland and the benefit that it have have from independence and european integration . where under previous government we see unfairness , we now see that gap be reduce , because of their wide range of power — a country that previously suffer from emigration be now benefit from immigration . that be ambition . those be the benefit that these thing can bring , and they be right on our doorstep . that point talk to I about the conversation around this issue . can we please pull the poison out of the migration debate ? nobody be talk about uncontrolled migration , and we obviously need to distinguish between migration and refugee . maybe , on the eve of his funeral , we can reflect on Pope Francis ' s compassion for the most vulnerable in society . we would all do well to reflect on that , especially on the heartbreaking conversation I have have around those people desperate enough to get into small boat and try to cross the channel . I will talk about the Scottish Trades Union Congress ; member might do well to listen to it . the First Minister be right to highlight both the negative effect of pander to anti - immigrant sentiment and the need for a separate scottish approach . the STUC support additional power on migration for the Scottish Parliament . if Government Members will not listen to we , to Reform Scotland , the care sector or the high education sector , maybe they will listen to the Trades Union Congress instead . the First Minister be right to push back on the hard right and on how we conduct ourselves in office . we must challenge Reform , and I be deeply disappointed that its member be not here today , because I have be reasonably generous in take intervention from member of different party . I wish they be here so that we could push back on the rhetoric that , I be sorry to say , too many in this House too often lean into . this idea be initially propose by Michael Gove to offset Brexit . that be the idea we get from he . Brexit leave we poorer , with few right and more isolated , and it leave young people with few opportunity . it hit public finance and our right , and it leave the UK isolated and vulnerable — more isolated than at any other time since the second world war . I be an internationalist ; I want to see country pool and share sovereignty . I want to see a European Union that provide a model in the modern age , a European Union that — [ interruption . ] this be the thing that labour — like the Tories and Reform — lean into : this sense of british exceptionalism . they lean into the sense that this be the only Union out there , but that exceptionalism be so small in its outlook . that be how I would describe it : small , isolated and lonely . I want to see we rejoin the European Union . Ireland and England have never have a well relationship in their history than they do now . our relationship be one of partnership , of equal , and of previously be within the Union that build that . Labour be elect on a small minority . I say to Labour member that it be time to listen . this Bill be imperfect ; I can see that . it will not be for everybody , but let we approve it in principle , let we get it through , and then let we work together on a commitment that have be make by our party and the Scottish Labour party . I be deeply grateful for the time you have give I , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) for his speech , although , as my child say , that be 50 minute we will never get back . even though I rise today represent a constituency that lie some 488 mile from Scotland , much of what I hear from scottish colleague on both side of the House resonate deeply with I as a Member from an island constituency . although this Bill may focus on matter far from Isle of Wight West , it have give I a chance to reflect on some fond memory of Scotland , whether that be search for dolphin around Nairn , regularly visit Edinburgh , or my trip to Faslane to learn about nuclear submarine . I have a very fond memory of my visit to Largs to work with the scottish office of the Ellen MacArthur Cancer Trust , an organisation that do fantastic and vital work with child to rebuild their confidence after their battle with cancer . its dedication be a powerful reminder that no matter the distance between our community , we share common challenge and , often , share solution . during these visit to Scotland , I have always be strike by the warmth , generosity and hospitality of the people I have meet , whether that be in Inverness , Edinburgh , or in small town in between . this hospitality reflect something deep than just kindness . it speak to a strong sense of community , openness and pride in welcome other , and it be precisely that spirit that should be at the part of any conversation about immigration . immigration , when do right , should strengthen community , not divide they . it should reflect the same value that I have see across Scotland and in my community on the Isle of Wight : a desire to offer opportunity , build belong and contribute to something great than ourselves . when I speak to my hon . friend the Members for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) and for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) , I hear echo of my community on the Isle of Wight , despite the geographical separation . like they , we be bind by the challenge of geography , dependent on ferry service — member would expect I to mention that — to get to work or school , receive vital good and supply , and access healthcare and essential public service . like they , we too have be let down time and again by broken promise , under - investment and poor planning by the previous Government — I would not want to leave Conservative Members out . as hon . member will know , I have have more than a few choice word about the current ferry situation on the Isle of Wight , but even I must admit that when compare with the so - call scottish ferry fiasco , our situation feel slightly less dire . for those who be unfamiliar with that , back in 2015 , the Scottish Government award a contract worth £ 97 million to Ferguson Marine to build two new ferry for CalMac . those ferry be mean to modernise the fleet , improve reliability and serve island route such as Arran and the Western Isles . be what my hon . friend just mention not another example of the incompetence and failing of the SNP ? frankly , motion and Bills like this be simply a disguise and design to pull the wool over the eye of people in Scotland . my hon . friend might not be surprised to hear that I be come to that point . the ferry be suppose to be operational by 2018 , but here we be in 2025 and neither ferry have set sail . if the ferry be such a catastrophe , would the hon . Gentleman care to explain why , in a constituency with probably more ferry than any other in the UK , I be re - elect in 2017 , 2019 and 2024 with the large SNP majority in Scotland ? if the ferry be that bad , why do the people who use they vote SNP ? I think I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I be sure that his constituent will be able to explain why . the project have be plague by delay after delay , the cost have soar to more than £ 360 million , and islander have be leave without the reliable transport they be promise . one vessel be now year behind schedule , while the other may not set sail until 2026 — not 20 : 26 by the 24 - hour clock , but the year 2026 . it be not just a failure of infrastructure , but a failure of leadership , a failure of accountability and , most importantly , a failure to respect the island community who rely on these lifeline service . now the SNP be ask we to entrust it with even great power over immigration . never once , while scan the horizon for dolphin off the coast of Nairn , do I think that Scotland should have its own separate immigration law or that that would solve everything . how the hon . Member have manage to bring ferry into a debate about a scottish visa be beyond I . instead of focus on the issue that he see with capital project in Scotland , why do he not talk about some of the capital project failure in England ? order . may I remind hon . member that this be a debate about why Scotland should have devolve power over immigration ? thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . you be quite right to keep we on track . the Bill fail to account for its impact on the broad UK internal market . if Scotland be grant the power to admit migrant under its own criterion , we will be leave with a host of unanswered question . what be the mechanism for manage the flow of people across border ? how will we prevent an influx of people from move to other part of the UK without proper oversight ? the hon . member , who until about two minute ago be one of the few people on the Government Benches I have any time for , talk about what a catastrophe it would be if Scotland could unilaterally control who come to work on our shore and who come to invest in our economy . ironically , he forget that that be exactly the encumbrance under which Scotland exist now : we get what England say we can get . it be a disgrace , and he be try to defend it . defend it now ! I thank my hon . friend — I will call he that — for his calm and measured intervention , as usual , but I do believe that there be a referendum , and we be all fully aware of the result . I be sure I will still enjoy chat to he in future . I be sorry to interrupt my hon . friend ' s excellent speech . he speak about the flow of people . what this two - clause Bill do not set out be any control or mechanism by which that could be measure . there be mention of Ireland early ; I have a slight fear that this will turn into a debate about a soft and hard border , and what that mean for the UK . I find this very divisive . do he agree ? indeed I do . for example , will there be immigration check at the border ? what happen when someone grant immigration status in Scotland seek work in Newcastle , Manchester or London ? will employer in those city suddenly be task with verify whether an individual be subject to scottish immigration rule ? these be not just theoretical concern ; they be real logistical and administrative challenge . without clarity and co - ordination , business across the UK could be force to navigate a confusing patchwork of immigration rule that add unnecessary complexity and cost to the workforce . I thank the hon . member for give way . he talk about the challenge of operate a system across the Scotland - England border effectively . that be not difficult in an age of digital technology . do he agree that it could be easily achieve ? if we can achieve the arrangement that we have with Ireland and a common travel area , why could it not work to have a regional immigration system ? the hon . Gentleman be ask we to take a leap of faith . the Bill be one line . if he have the answer to those question already , the referendum result might well have be different . [ interruption . ] sorry , the Bill be two line . the Bill could create uncertainty for employer , particularly in sector that rely on a flexible and diverse labour market , such as construction , healthcare and agriculture . I have outline the similarity of my constituency to those of my scottish colleague , but be I to suggest that the Isle of Wight have its own immigration law to help correct our demographic and workforce , they would beg I to talk more about ferry . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech , and he make a pertinent point that there be part of the United Kingdom outside Scotland that also suffer with demographic challenge . one of those be stoke - on - Trent . to suggest that Stoke - on - Trent should be able to issue its own visa or have its own immigration policy to solve that be for the bird . give that the last Government leave record high level of inward migration to this country , do he agree that part of the solution be to think about how we make it more attractive to work in these place , rather than simply rewrite the system for our own benefit ? I agree entirely with my hon . friend . while the Bill clearly seek to help and support employer in Scotland with workforce issue , consideration must also be give to employer in England that do not want an extra layer of bureaucracy add to their recruitment process . moreover , this Bill do not explain how a devolved system would integrate with the exist national framework . it be one thing to talk about devolve power , but where be the clarity on how the new system would coexist with the broad UK immigration process ? without the answer , we risk create more confusion than solution , with business , local government and migrant alike catch in a web of complexity . do my hon . friend agree that give that the SNP have fail to run vital service in Scotland , we should not give it control of a border ? I agree with my hon . friend . let we be clear that set up a separate immigration system in Scotland would not come free or cheap . we be talk about create entire new department , new staff , new infrastructure , new it system and likely new border control , all of which would need to be design , staff and maintain . who would foot the bill for that bureaucratic expansion ? it would be ordinary work people across the whole of the UK . let we not forget that immigration be already a complex and resource - intensive process under a single UK system . the hon . Member be ask we some valuable question on thing that need to be probe a little bit deep , such as cost and complexity . those be all matter we be have to consider under Brexit , which be cost £ 40 billion a year . [ interruption . ] I can hear the chuntering , but I be address the Member on whom I be intervene . [ hon . member : " Ooh ! " ] be you surprised ? that be how a proper adult debate happen . I ask the hon . member this important question : give that he be ask some legitimate question that he and we would like to explore , why not bring the Bill to a vote , so that we can take it forward to Committee to explore those question far ? order . before I call Richard Quigley , may I just remind member that good temper and moderation be the hallmark of this Parliament ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I wish I have all the answer to his question , because I be sure it would have save we time . it be now six minute to 11 , and I could have have a long breakfast . duplicate thing for one part of the country do not solve a problem ; it create one . if the SNP can not manage a shipbuilding contract without go £ 260 million over budget , what make we think it would manage immigration efficiently or affordably ? will the hon . member give way ? I will make slightly more progress and then give way . the Bill propose the devolution of immigration power to the Scottish Government , under the argument that economic migration could support rural and island community . let I be absolutely clear : I agree that migration , when do properly , can be a lifeline . it can bring new energy to struggle area , provide vital worker and enrich our community . but this Bill , with all the good will in the world , fail to offer the security , clarity or accountability need to deliver those outcome . when I come into this debate , I do not expect the main thrust of the Labour party ' s argument to be a concession that it will not win the next Holyrood election . Labour Members have consistently say that this be about hand power to the SNP . do they understand how democracy work ? or be they look at the poll and say , " oh my goodness , we be totally in trouble before 2026 , so it ' s get to be an SNP Government next year " ? that be a bit of a reach . how will the Scottish Government manage border security between England and Scotland ? how will they ensure consistency with UK immigration policy ? how will they safeguard against misuse or confusion about legal status ? these question remain unanswered , and regrettably this Bill would create far more uncertainty than solution . be my hon . friend aware that the Scottish National party ' s own Minister for independence have let the cat out of the bag and say that border check be expect to be a " hard reality " in the future ? do my hon . friend agree that this Bill , in its one sentence , be the Trojan horse that will bring forward that hard reality ? I be not aware of that , but I think that this one - sentence Bill be probably the SNP ' s hard border to get any far . above all , the most pressing question be this . before those in the SNP ask for more power , why not first demonstrate that they can effectively use the power they already have ? before reach for immigration lever — hon . member can all finish this line for I — fix the ferry . before seek new authority , show that they can deliver on their current responsibility . whether we be talk about those in the Outer Hebrides , the Isle of Wight , or any of the countless community that feel overlooked and underserved , the people across Scotland deserve far well than what they have receive so far . they deserve competent leadership , not constant excuse . they deserve join - up policy that work , not duplication and distraction . they deserve public service that be strong and reliable , not stretch to the brink . above all , they deserve government at every level that be honest about what they can deliver and accountable when they do not . this Bill may be wrap in the language of empowerment , but in reality it risk become just another example of symbolism over substance . on the point about symbolism over substance , do the hon . Member agree that we should have a vote on the Bill today and dig into it in Committee , as one would with any other Bill ? I could not agree with he more . I do not agree with the hon . Gentleman — not on the vote , but we have not finish the debate , so let we see how today play out . let we focus on what truly matter : fix the system we already have , strengthen the power that be already devolve , and deliver on the promise already make . People be not ask for grand gesture ; they be ask for real change . may I wholeheartedly congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) on introduce this vital and critical Bill this morning ? I also commend he for the diplomatic and charming way that he always introduce these debate to the House . he be very generous in take so many point of view this morning . before I make my substantial point , I want to say a little bit about the tone of this House today . when it be the Conservatives sit on the Government Benches , we collect what they say about Scotland and all the issue to do with devolved government . we stow they away and we use it against they . now they be go — utterly and totally go . when Scottish Labour Members speak Scotland down , as they have this morning , we collect , collate and keep those comment to use back against they . I ever so gently suggest to my scottish friend on the Labour Benches that they look at the by - election result last night . it be absolutely damn for the Labour party . whatever Labour be do through this new attack of line against the Scottish Government , it be singularly fail . it will fail Labour in the way that it fail the Conservatives . I caution Labour Members not to try to pit this House against the Scottish Parliament . it do not work for the Conservatives and it will not work for they . today be about the Bill . we be in real trouble in Scotland , and that be why the Bill be critical . there can be no doubt whatsoever that Scotland be in the early stage of a population and demographic crisis that will get a lot bad unless we do something . we can not leave thing in the condition that they be in . with our fall birth rate , we have too few working - age people available to look after an ever - old population . we be in the early stage of population stagnation , and we already see the impact . we need only look at our health service , which have difficulty recruit staff . in our social care sector , we be approach something like a workforce crisis . I appeal to people to go and look not at the nuclear sub in Clydebank , but at rural area of Scotland like mine . they will find that hospitality and tourism business be cut back hour or closing because they do not have the staff to keep themselves properly function and organise . I be somewhat confused by the hon . Gentleman ' s speech . he start off by accuse Labour Members of talk Scotland down , but then tell we that Scotland be in crisis — one wonder who be in government at the time — and continue his peroration by say that there be an age society . I wonder if he will take some sort of responsibility , or reflect on the fact that he seem to be talk down the independent Scotland of which he dream . I be almost grateful for the intervention , confused and clumsy as it be , because I have a solution for the hon . Gentleman . what we need when we face a crisis , as we do now , be solution . what my hon . friend the Member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry have offer by start this conversation be a way to deal with the issue we face in Scotland . Scotland be not unique ; the same thing be happen throughout the whole western industrialise world . we face issue because birth rate across the world be fall calamitously . every nation need to do something about the condition that they find themselves in . today we be ask for a scottish response to the distinct circumstance we be deal with , because we have get it really bad . our issue with the fall birth rate have be exacerbate , not by anything that the Scottish Government be do , as Labour Members suggest , but because of what my hon . friend the Member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry say about Brexit . Brexit have kill our population sustainability and population growth . the hon . member talk about the consequence of Brexit . one consequence be that we have see record soar net migration rate across the UK , but the proportion of people come to Scotland be low . have he look at how the SNP can attract immigrant and migrant to Scotland without blame Westminster ? I wonder how long it would take to get to this point . that be utter bunkum and rubbish . the suggestion start by the Conservatives — but it seem to have be readily pick up by the Labour party — that we be not able to attract to Scotland people from the rest of the United Kingdom be utter rubbish . the figure be at a record high . why do the hon . Lady not look at the National Records of Scotland report , which will tell she that ? we have the high net migration to Scotland from the rest of the United Kingdom that we have ever have . indicate dissent . the hon . Lady shake her head . she have obviously not read the report . I extoll she to do so , because this nonsense have be allow to take hold for too long and it can not continue any long . we have record net migration from the rest of the United Kingdom . believe I , Madam Deputy Speaker , we do not get depressed about that . we do not think that be a bad thing . we think it be a positive . we encourage people to come to Scotland , unlike Labour Members , who discourage people from come to the United Kingdom , and who do everything possible to put up barrier and make life difficult and miserable for people try to come to the shore of the United Kingdom . we be the exact opposite in Scotland . Scotland be not full up , and we need people to come to our country . I welcome anybody from the rest of the United Kingdom who want to come to a beautiful place and a fantastic country to live in . come to Scotland ! I challenge any Labour Member to say to the rest of the world , " come to the United Kingdom . " it be not in their cultural or political dna . we be in a difficult situation . the simple fact be that Scotland need more working - age people to refresh our population . if we do not get that , we will be in serious trouble . the same thing be happen all around the world , but what the Government be do with Brexit be get in the way and make our issue bad . do you know what else they be do ? although our birth rate be fall , they be try to suppress it far through social engineering ; they be use the benefit system to deny benefit to working - class people seek to have large family . this be at a time when we should be do everything we can to encourage more child . I want to hear the Minister defend that policy when we have a crisis in Scotland . how would the hon . Gentleman defend the SNP Government in Holyrood , who have fail on all the issue he have mention ? there be a broad point here about nationalism : the SNP Government have to keep the circus on the road , and have to keep tell people a line . this be the late in a string of subject that keep people from talk about SNP failure . I have no idea what the hon . Gentleman be say . we be try to offer solution . we have identify a range of difficulty that we have as a nation . it be right and proper that they be examine , analyse and address . then we get down to the business of fix they , and that be what we be do today . this government be make our situation 10 time bad through their inept , callous and heinous attempt to socially engineer the benefit system to suppress our birth rate , at the very time when we need more child . we need large family . all around Europe , country face the same range of issue . what be they do ? they be not have a two - child benefit cap . they be incentivise young people to have child by give tax break and positive benefit to make sure that the birth rate increase . what be the Labour Government do in the UK ? they be , shamefully , try to suppress our birth rate . I challenge any of they to get to their foot and tell I how a two - child benefit cap help to increase our birth rate in Scotland . go on ! order . I remind the hon . Gentleman that this debate be about devolve immigration to Scotland . okay . right , let we look at Scotland ' s population then . Scotland ' s population be probably in the region of 5 . 5 million . some estimate be 5 . 43 million and some be 5 . 7 million . we have be in population decline since the latter part of the 20th century . this be an issue that particularly interest and excite I . I think the Scottish Affairs Committee have do three report on it , and I think Secretary of State serve on the Committee during one of the inquiry on Scotland ' s migration issue . those be helpful report , and hopefully they add to the debate . I be glad that a few people have reference they . we get down to the serious business of try to address the issue . I congratulate the Blair Government , which be visionary when it come to immigration ; it be imaginative . Tony Blair open up eastern Europe through accession , which help our issue in Scotland . for a while , that reverse our long - term population decline . the Tony Blair Government also give we fresh talent . it give people an opportunity to come to study at one of our world - class university and stay and contribute to the scottish economy for a period of their early life . it be fantastic . it be back by the UK Government and the Scottish Government , with overwhelming support from hon . member in this House . the policy be then subsume by a general UK policy , which mean that we lose our advantage . rise — I know that fresh talent be exciting and of interest to the Secretary of State , so I give way to he . I sit on the Scottish Affairs Committee when it be chair by the hon . Gentleman and produce one of those report on migration and depopulation in Scotland — I think it be during the 2015 to 2017 Parliament — and I remember that one of the conclusion of the report be that the big type of migration out of Scotland be 19 to 26 - year - old migrate to the rest of the UK . we never answer why . absolutely . I be go to come to that , but it be good to look at that now . there be reason for that , although I be not entirely clear about they ; the Committee do not get to the heart of that in its analysis . we live in a United Kingdom and have a massive mega - city , London , so there be always the allure for young scot to come down to London . I do it myself , and I be pretty certain that the Secretary of State spend a good part of his young life in London . Most scot at some point find themselves live in London . but it be bad than that for Scotland , because we have a century - old historical culture and tradition of emigration . immigration have not really be that big an issue for we . we obviously benefit from it , but the key feature in the history of Scotland and this debate be emigration . as everybody know , there be scot community all around the world , from Canada and New Zealand to the United States , and they have always act as a draw for our young people . not so much now , but previously , young scot settle abroad , so we get into this cultural trend of people leave Scotland . we have to address that . one other thing that the Scottish Affairs Committee look at but do not come to any great conclusion about be deindustrialisation and its impact on encourage people to emigrate . we obviously have deindustrialisation in Scotland , and we need only look at some of our major city , and at the difficulty and feature of life in those city , to see why people would leave . we be wrestle with problem that successive UK government have bequeath Scotland , whether through Brexit policy or the two - child benefit cap , mix with the historical attitude to emigration and deindustrialisation . those be the thing that my hon . friend the Member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry and his modest Bill invite we to address . my hon . friend have not get the solution in the Bill ; he say that , and that it be an open bill . I be quite surprised that the Secretary of State do not understand how Committee work for private member ' Bills . my hon . friend be give an invitation to the House . I be lay out the difficulty and issue that we have identify — I will get on to demography in Scotland in a minute ; hon . member should wait till they hear about that — and my hon . friend be say , " help we . " let we work together . we have a real problem in Scotland . there be some fantastic contribution to be make , with real in - depth analysis by people who understand how to look at critical question and come up with solution . help we deal with this , so that we can address the range of issue that we have . believe I , if we do not start to address they , we will be in really serious trouble . I have be listen with great interest to the hon . Gentleman . we see from other country that there be way of deal with the issue without have full devolution , for many of the reason that my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) lay out . as be highlight early , the Home Secretary make the Scottish Government an offer to work with the Migration Advisory Committee on solution . full devolution would be expensive and time consume , and it would not deliver . this be helpful , and I think my hon . friend the Member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry be hope for such positive contribution . I be very much aware of the work that the Migration Advisory Committee do , and I commend it for that , but its list of occupation require in Scotland be not nearly enough — it do not even touch the side of our difficulty . if the hon . Lady have some thought on how that could be beef up and make more effective and useful , we be all ear — come and serve on the Committee and help we . we need positive solution to identify problem . that be the territory we want to get into . we have long - term population decline in Scotland . when I start to engage in this debate in the early 2000 , there be a real fear that , for the first time since the 19th century , Scotland ' s population would drop below the iconic 5 million mark . that be only reverse because of the imagination of the previous Labour Government and their generosity when it come to immigration policy — something that the current Government would never even think about . the vision of Tony Blair about how Europe would work and how the single market would develop help Scotland to address some of the issue . around the turn of the millennium , I remember hear Lord Jack McConnell , the First Minister of Scotland at the time , talk about that iconic 5 million mark . I be only 13 or 14 , but I remember it be so important , and it be so important to labour that immigration happen in order to keep that population . why do he think Labour have change its position so drastically in a relatively short space of time ? why be immigration now apparently bad ? that be such a profound question . I do not know how Labour have get itself into this situation . I suspect it be some sort of fear of Reform , whose member be not here today , and Labour be probably right to be frightened . I think I see an opinion poll show that Labour be now behind reform across the United Kingdom . Labour member think — and this will only exacerbate the problem — that if they somehow pander to Reform ' s agenda , that will help they beat it . nothing could delight Reform more than go on to its agenda . that be why we in Scotland take Reform on and tackle it . I be so pleased and impress that the First Minister of Scotland this week get together a summit to take on these very challenge , and I be delighted that the scottish Labour leader attend that summit and take it seriously , because this be the sort of thing we have to do when there be a challenge from the right . we do not go on to their agenda — that be what they want . we take on their assumption , we take they on politically , and we beat they . that be why the SNP have not be so impact by the rise of Reform in the United Kingdom : because we take it on . labour be start to experience difficulty at the hand of reform because it be look to pander to Reform ' s agenda and move on to some of the uncomfortable territory . we take Reform on ; we do not pander to it . that be the lesson of history . many Labour Members be actively in the business of take on the Reform party , whose member be absent once again from the Chamber today — I be not sure whether that be to our detriment or not . many labour parliamentarian , include I , be proud of the contribution of immigration to our country . we be still go to have net immigration under a Labour Government . I be proud of the University of Hertfordshire — base in my constituency — where more than 50 % of student be international student . I be pleased that the hon . Member praise the scottish Labour leader , but please do not mischaracterise the position of Labour Members . I have no doubt that the hon . member be utterly sincere . I have listen to several remark from his labour colleague , and some of they greatly impress I . it encourage I to think that there be a little bit of a fight - back . I sit on the Committee consider the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , and I do not enjoy that for one minute . what I see be a range of initiative and policy that could basically have come from the Conservatives . it be very much the same sort of theme and trend : immigration be bad , it have to be curb , it have to be take on and deal with . it be never see as a positive . I encourage the hon . Gentleman to speak up , do more of this , and encourage his colleague to speak out clearly on these issue . that be what we need . we be in a political crisis — at a juncture in our political culture and history — and we need brave gentleman like he to stand up there and take it on , rather than listen to his Front Benchers . the Home Secretary in particular have a track record on this . he need to challenge she and the Home Office . the hon . Member have speak at great length about the benefit of immigration . I be married to an eastern european immigrant , so I be well aware of the massive benefit of immigration to this country . what I be bit confused about , though , be how add an extra layer of red tape and a potential border between England and Scotland would improve or make a difference to what he have just talk about . I be go to leave that point until later in my speech , but the hon . Gentleman tempt I to get on to that territory now — he be obviously look for some sort of solution . I will try to explain our plan and intention to he as well I can , as well as where I think this matter should eventually go . when I chair the Scottish Affairs Committee , we be lucky enough to go to Quebec to look at its state - wide immigration system , which be fantastic . member should go to Montreal and have a look the construction there — it be a boom city . it be able to do that because the Quebecois state Parliament be able to gain control over immigration from the state Government . as a result , Quebec can appeal to Francophone Europe to think about settle there , thereby attract the specific skill that be lack . that have lead to such incredible growth in Quebec , which be in charge of its immigration system . that work in Canada . be we try to suggest that what people call " the most powerful devolve Parliament in the world " could not come up with a similar or even more effective system than what we see in Canada ? that be what we can do if we have the imagination . the hon . member for Banbury ( Sean Woodcock ) ask how this would work . I think I hear somebody talk about border guard and passport control between Scotland and England . in the past 10 year , Scotland have acquire significant new power over taxation — we can have a debate about that at some other point — which have allow we to set up Revenue Scotland , so all of we in Scotland have a different tax code from everybody else throughout the United Kingdom . that individual scottish tax code allow we to know where people be live and work . if they have such a tax code , they be pay taxis in Scotland . if we have a scottish visa , one of the condition for people come to Scotland from outwith the United Kingdom would be for they to have a scottish tax code that would allow we to monitor where they be live and work . one of the condition for their come in would be to be resident and work in Scotland . if they break the condition for their entry to Scotland , they would no long be entitle to a scottish visa and would be make illegal . who on earth would do that ? why would somebody not want the opportunity to live in Scotland . there be practical solution that other nation use . surely nobody be suggest that Scotland could not introduce such a scheme . it have be do before . we have already talk about fresh talent . labour have give Scotland an advantage in immigration before and could do it again . it be not beyond the wit of the scottish nation to ensure that we have an immigration system and a specific tax code , but we need the mean to do it . there be another issue that I wish to take on , which I address in response to an intervention , and that be the idea that Scotland do not get any migrant from the rest of the UK — that they do not want to come to Scotland . that be just utter bunkum and rubbish . I hope that , after this debate , that suggestion will never be make again , because it be just rubbish . I will give the House a few statistic . accord to the National Records of Scotland , in the year lead up to mid - 2022 , net migration from the rest of the UK to Scotland increase to 12 , 500 , up from 8 , 900 the previous year . the trend continue , with net internal migration rise to 13 , 900 in the year to June 2023 — the last figure . [ interruption . ] that be a 21 - year high , and 39 % high than pre - pandemic level . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? just a minute — be patient . People come to Scotland from the rest of the United Kingdom because of our more affordable living cost , thing such as free university tuition and free personal care , our progressive social contract , and the fact that it be a beautiful and great country to stay in . of course people come to Scotland — let we knock this on the head . I do not know whether the hon . Lady have get a point about this ; I be keen to hear what it be . the hon . Gentleman be mischaracterise what I say — we be not talk about absolute figure . yes , the figure have rise , but they be disproportionately low than for the rest of the UK . once I find it , if the hon . Gentleman will let I , I will quote directly from the National Records of Scotland . I be sorry — I think I be go to get the figure . we do way beyond our national share when it come to inward migration , so please let we have no more of this . let we just agree that people come to Scotland and we want more to do so . regardless of how successful we have be in attract people , we be still in a situation of long - term population decline in Scotland . that be the population , but the demography of Scotland be a big horror story , and it be one thing that we really need to look at . some 22 % of Scotland ' s population be over 65 , which be one of the high ratio in the whole of the western world — I think the figure for England be 17 % . we have a birth rate of one child for every three woman — again , one of the bad rate in the whole of the industrialise world . I do not need to lecture hon . member about what the birth rate mean . we need two child for every woman just to sustain the population at its current level ; a birth rate of one child for every three woman can not be sustainable . that be what make the two - child benefit cap all the more absurd , heinous and callous . this government be work contrary to what we need in Scotland to address some of these issue . therefore , give our fall birth rate , we be entirely dependent on immigration to keep our population at current level , and maybe to increase it modestly for the prospect of economic growth . one of the few ambition and commitment that this Government be stick to be to cut net migration — that be their absolute and utter mission . they will not even bring forward a youth mobility scheme in all its glory because of their concern about the impact on net migration . Scotland be burden with an immigration system and a set of government policy that make our situation so much bad . why do you think that we consistently call for this power to be devolve ? no Scottish Labour MP have stand up and oppose that commitment . if they be not go to do it , they should give the power to we and allow we to do so . all over the world , the population of western industrial country be face these difficulty . they have get the power to address they — we have see example in Italy and Spain , which have particularly bad birth rate , almost on a par with what Scotland have . they have ministry devote to try to increase the birth rate and do something about the impending crisis that be come their way . even in China , population stagnation be begin to take hold . the world population will stop grow in about 2055 , and at that point there will be stagnation before rapid population fall . it be at the point where that curve start to bend that we get stagnation , which be why nation be address the issue that they have . have a look at Japan : historically resistant to immigration , Japan be go through a structural economic crisis because of its demography and population issue . its population be due to fall by 20 % in the next 10 year because of the fall birth rate . it be go to fall from third in the GDP ranking to 10th . that be what await the United Kingdom over the course of the next 20 or 30 year . this government can not look far than the nose on their face ; all they be see just now be Reform , and all they be think about be , " how do we take they on ; how do we beat they ? " there be no strategic thinking or long - term vision about what we will do towards the end of the century when all of this start to take hold . nothing , no imagination , no inquiry , but this be where we be go . it might blow some member ' mind , but towards the end of the century migrant might be at a premium and there will be a competition to try to get people into nation around the world . I know that be too much for they to start to contemplate just now , but that be where we be go . and yet for they the issue be about curb migration . they see migration as a problem that have to be manage , with no concession or ground give to anything that might get in the way of the net migration figure . we be lumber with that in Scotland . where we want to move on and deal with our issue , we can not do so but we should be able to do that . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry about the support that the measure in the Bill have in Scotland . that be no surprise because business organisation and think tank have see what be go on . they just need to look at some of our sector to find that there be a crisis in practically every one and in our public service , so of course they support the measure . there be even political consensus in the Scottish Parliament that something need to be do . the only thing be we need the UK Government to get on board , and the Bill before we today will help to achieve those goal . as my hon . friend the Member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry concede from the outset , the Bill be not perfect — it be a one - line Bill — but invitation be there to get it to Committee — [ interruption . ] I say to member on the Labour Benches , include the hon . member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) , colleague from the Conservative party and the Liberal Democrats , who be not here : we have identify the issue . if somebody think that we have get all of this wrong , I want to hear from they . I do not want to hear about what the Scottish Government be do with ferry or whatever it be they want to talk about — [ interruption . ] this be the thing , Madam Deputy Speaker — Government Members do not want to talk about the issue that be important to we in this House . they want to talk about stuff that be devolve to the Scottish Parliament . be that because they think their member of the Scottish Parliament be not up to the job , so Labour Members in this House have to constantly go on about those thing ? the Secretary of State can confirm , but I think Labour have about 50 msp up in Scotland . why not let they get on with their job while we deal with the thing that we need to fix down here ? immigration be wrap up in a lot of policy area that be devolve to the Scottish Parliament . the Scottish Government themselves , in Parliament , declare a housing emergency . do the hon . Gentleman think that the lack of housing in Scotland have anything to do with the inability to attract migrant to do the job in the place where they be need to do they ? I think that we be go to have quite a few debate like this in the next few year , so I say this ever so candidly : that be a matter for the Scottish Parliament to resolve . the Secretary of State ' s party be try to become the party in government in Scotland next year , but his party do not have any imaginative solution , so over the next year we will be test his proposal and policy against what we be do . if people in Scotland be attract to the Secretary of State ' s policy and proposal , they will vote Labour in , but I do not think that will happen , and I think , in his heart of heart , he also believe that now . we only need to look at the last by - election result . so when we be elect to this House , let we deal with the thing that matter to we , and nothing be more important than this issue . if we do not get this fix , we will have serious issue and structural problem in our public service and our economy . I appeal to the House : let the Bill go through and then let we all work together to resolve the situation . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , my vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary beer group , which be a very important group . I agree with he about how beautiful Scotland be and I be interested to hear some practical idea on how we can increase the scottish population . I be sure that the birth rate could be incentivise by the Scottish Government , perhaps with tax relief for more baby — that be just an idea . the hon . Gentleman talk about pander to the Reform agenda , but I do not think any hon . member in this House , from any party , be immune to the danger of Reform ' s rhetoric . he be misguide in say that Labour Members be the one pallye up to Reform . I agree with many of the intervention from Labour Members today , and I will make a few further point . although I hate to burst the SNP ' s bubble , since July , Scottish Labour have win two third of by - election — many , many congratulation to my friend in Scotland . also , as a former french teacher , I be very familiar with Qu é bec , which be a wonderful place . it have have two referendum and people have vote remain twice . independence happen to be off the agenda , so perhaps the SNP need to study that a bit more . I would like to echo the word of my hon . friend , and I wonder , when James V of Scotland become James I , do he ever think that after 400 year — James VI ! the SNP Members be right — I be really rubbish at roman numeral . I have suffer with that since I be a child , so I put that down to my lack of intelligence around roman numeral . my note do actually say " VI " — I just can not do they , but at least I can admit to my failing . when James VI of Scotland become James I , do he ever think that after 400 year and multiple act of Parliament and referendum , we would still be have these conversation ? either way , he have a more successful career in the monarchy than Llywelyn ap Gruffudd , the last prince of Wales . as a Welsh MP who be the Chair of the Select Committee on Northern Ireland Affairs , perhaps I be destine to be involve in a debate on scottish devolution . I believe , of course , that devolve power be right , and I appreciate that 14 year of a Tory Government here have leave a very sour taste in the devolved nation ’ mouth , include in Wales . but I can not agree with devolve immigration to the Scottish Government . first , the notion that this should be a priority for the SNP here or in Holyrood be , frankly , for the bird . after a shocking result in the general election for the SNP , surely now the priority be to rebuild trust before the scottish election , and rebuild that trust be difficult , guy . if we look at the record in Scotland , we see that almost one in six scot be on an NHS waiting list . we see fall standard and rise violence in our once world - lead school , while the poverty - relate attainment gap in higher be at its widest ever , and hon . member know how much I care about that . before the hon . member get to the end of her prepared litany of apparent failure in Scotland , she might want to touch on the far great spending on education and health in Scotland . but just to get clarity on this issue , in this grotesque thing that be the United Kingdom , can she give I one measure — because I know she be super - smart — on which the devolve Welsh Government perform well than the SNP Government in Scotland ? that old chestnut , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have be part of that system as a teacher , and I know what the high point be . actually , I do not think there be any comparator when the Scottish Government have have a lot more money to play with from their Barnett formula consequential . I want to move on to something that be very close to my heart : the Supreme Court judgment , for which scottish woman have to bring a case to the Supreme Court . I just think we have not do anybody right , and that come from the SNP Government and their agenda in Scotland . we have see how NHS Fife be treat the nurse , Sandie Peggie . we know how they be treat woman and girl . there be a brilliant book call " the Women who Wouldn ' t Wheesht " , by Lucy Hunter Blackburn and Susan Dalgety . it have 30 essay with 30 woman ' s voice on the situation in Scotland , from the frontline of the battle for woman ' s right . it be a compelling read , Madam Deputy Speaker — I can get you a copy . so many woman have have their reputation throw under a bus and their job ruin , and their relationship with family and friend have go . my hon . friend rightly point out the outrageous situation that so many woman in Scotland have face over the last few year . do she agree that if Scotland want to attract more immigrant and more migrant , it need to understand woman ' s issue more coherently ? order . I be grateful for that intervention , because I remind member to please keep in scope of the Bill . that be the point I be go to make : if we want to make Scotland a more attractive place to go , we have to be inclusive and ensure that we look after woman and girl . do anyone have an idea of how the Scottish Government would police this issue when there be no border ? from my time as a shadow Northern Ireland Minister , and even now as the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , I know the ongoing challenge there be with electronic travel authorisation for tourist from outside the EU , many of whom will likely travel into the Republic of Ireland first before try to visit Northern Ireland . with no border on the island of Ireland , there be still unanswered question about how that would be manage , and I foresee the same challenge in Scotland . have any consideration be give to that ? how do the Scottish Government propose to deal with the sudden , humongous immigration caseload , thank to the backlog create by the last Tory Government ' s diabolical record on immigration ? this would not be a case of a new Scottish home department start from zero , because that be just impossible . this Bill just be not a practical proposal . I have the benefit of have be a tour guide in a previous life . I often bring american visitor into Dublin and on into Northern Ireland . the hon . Lady say that she be the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , so I point out to she that there be no border in that regard . the tourist pass freely from the south to the north and back into the south , so I have no idea what she be talk about . will she elaborate on where the problem might arise for those tourist ? if the hon . Member be aware of the ETA situation we have in the Home Office , he will know that people have to have apply online to be able to travel into the north . many concern be be raise with I that that be a real issue . [ interruption . ] well , it be true — tourism in Northern Ireland be struggle , because people will not go there because of the additional paperwork that there be . it be a real issue . because I be so generous , I will send some of my correspondence and the concern that have be raise with I to the hon . gentleman . he may like to cast his eye over they , just to put the record straight . an argument I have hear in favour of the Bill be that it would help with grow the hospitality sector in Scotland , which be fantastic . I enjoy visit Scotland , particularly for rugby ; the rugby game may be unsuccessful , but I enjoy it . there be tourism from Wales to Scotland , and I would hate for there to be any hindrance in that regard . member will know my passion for rugby , and I make regular visit . Welsh tourist be always welcome in Scotland — I have have many great time . I have a practical point relate to the Bill . the hon . Lady have criticise it , which be fine , but I have be very clear that I want to open this issue up . which part of the scottish Labour proposal do she find attractive ? which part of the scottish Labour proposal do I find attractive ? well , this be your Bill , mate . I do not have any comment to make there . I be the chair of the APPG on beer , which I mention , so I have many thought on hospitality . the hospitality sector have struggle across the board , particularly in recover post covid . grow the sector can not simply be resolve by change immigration rule : this be a multifaceted issue . in fact , so many of the area of change that could help the sector to grow , such as business rate , apprenticeship , tourism and tax , be already devolve to the Scottish Government . I welcome the fact that the hon . Lady enjoy come to Scotland for rugby game . I have a Welsh great - uncle who once have a try out for the Welsh national team , so it be a great passion within my family . on hospitality , however , will the hon . Lady concede that although immigration might not be the only part of the problem , it be a significant part of the problem and we need to deal with it ? that be what the Bill be for . there be other thing that can be do and that be be explore and work on by the Scottish Government and other Departments in the UK Government , but we be talk about immigration today . will she concede that it be a significant issue and that this Bill could help to deal with it ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the intervention , but it be just a shame that the SNP do not give hospitality the rate relief it have in England . that be an issue that need to be consider . just in February , I speak at an event celebrate young apprentice in the hospitality industry — restaurant , pub chain and brewery all together recognise the importance of hospitality apprenticeship in a grow sector . support for this sector in Scotland have be see as less desirable , especially on business rate , as I say . ukhospitality research show that a typical local pub in Scotland will have to pay £ 12 , 000 more in rate bill than a similar business in England . industry leader have argue that while support be available elsewhere in the UK , Scotland ' s hospitality sector be be leave behind . try to fix this with a large migrant workforce be just not viable when business be already struggle . the good way to address problem in this sector be through investment , upskille and tackle economic inactivity , and the good way to enable this be for our devolved nation to work together , link up migration , skill and labour market policy . the Scottish Government want to introduce a new rural visa pilot to encourage migration to remote and rural community where the population be decline . be that any wonder when over 1 , 400 bus route have be lose between 2006 - 07 and 2023 - 24 , include 190 in the last year alone , and when a pilot that remove peak rail price have be scrap , mean a total rise in rail fare of between 20 % and 200 % ? it be simply unfair to encourage people to live in these rural community — which be beautiful — when the infrastructure they need to function be not there . I do not want to be accuse of be anti - change ; I be definitely not that person . devolution be a process , not an event , and I be not say here today that the devolution package should never change . I do not believe my party be say that today , and we have a lot to say . what I do think , however , be that now be not the time . any change deserve a careful , think - out and scrutinise process . the question be whether this Bill would benefit the people of Scotland now , and the answer be no . I call the shadow Secretary of State . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , and I must thank the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) for introduce it . it be a shame that only six Scottish Labour mp have see fit to turn up to the debate , give their majority in represent scottish constituency , but I will move on to the Scottish Labour position on the Bill in due course . some 40 % of Scottish Conservative mp have turn up to this today , in comparison with only 16 % of Scottish Labour MPs , which I would say be a roar success . I must start from first principle . devolution of immigration and asylum be a non - starter . it be , frankly , an absurd and unworkable idea , and the conservative party be resolutely oppose to it . if we be in government , we would have the courage of our conviction and vote against the Bill , but the weak approach of the Labour party to this Bill , in avoid a vote and try to talk it out , should shame the Secretary of State and , indeed , the Government and the Scottish Labour party . whatever our view of the proposal , on this Bill Members should have a vote — member should be force to say what their position actually be . we all know why there be not go to be a vote today : it be because the branch office in Edinburgh might like certain element of the Bill , but London Labour say no — ' twa always thus . I be proud to say that the conservative party oppose the Bill , but the Labour party — the Scottish Labour party — be scared to do anything that might damage its SNP - lite approach to politic and Scotland . it be supine in opposition in Holyrood and absent from the field in government . labour should have the courage of its conviction to vote against the Bill today , despite how uncomfortable it might make certain Government Members . turn to the Bill , the idea that immigration and asylum matter should be devolve to Scotland simply should not be countenance . will the shadow Secretary of State give way ? it be always a pleasure to give way to the hon . Gentleman . I will start on a positive note : I think we should take the Bill to a vote . I take the shadow Secretary of State ' s point , but why do he think that Michael Gove back this Bill ? when labour stick he in the Lords , Lord Gove could take this Bill through the Lords . do the shadow Secretary of State agree ? Michael Gove , soon to be Lord Gove of Torry , be answerable for his own opinion on whether immigration power should be devolve to Scotland . I would not be in any way surprised if his view on that issue have change , as indeed have his view on certain other issue over the year . first , we should not enable regional immigration policy within the United Kingdom . secondly , there be absolutely no case for a special immigration policy for Scotland outwith the United Kingdom ' s legislative framework . thirdly , the Scottish Government under the SNP over the past 18 year have demonstrate an unparalleled and unprecedented level of incompetence , which ought to preclude consideration of grant great power over , frankly , anything . we all know that there be such a thing as scottish exceptionalism . the only exceptionalism that the Scottish Government have demonstrate be an exceptional reverse Midas touch to almost every single area over which they have responsibility , whether it be education , health or transport infrastructure . I could go on . just before the shadow Secretary of State get into his usual anti - scottish Government stuff , he have tell we what he do not like about this Bill move by my hon . friend the Member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) . how would the scottish Conservatives resolve our population demography crisis and the fact that we have a shrink working - age workforce in Scotland ? what would they do ? if the hon . Gentleman have some patience , I will come to that . I do not intend to detain the House for quite as long as he do in give his remark , but I will come to what the scottish Conservatives propose to address the demographic challenge that we face north of the border . there be no case for devolve immigration to Scotland . do so would be unproductive at good , and give the SNP ' s record in Holyrood , it would likely be disastrous . the devolution of immigration policy to Scotland would be incoherent within a United Kingdom and , indeed , wholly impractical . we have hear argument today that Scotland be more reliant on immigration than elsewhere in the UK . in many sector , such as healthcare , adult social care , construction and agriculture , the UK benefit from — or rely too heavily upon , some might argue — import labour . the Migration Advisory Committee , however , have find that labour market need be similar across the UK and that there be no case for scottish exceptionalism in this regard or for a Scotland - specific immigration system . let we talk about attract skilled labour to Scotland . let we start by look at one of Scotland ' s most successful industry : oil and gas . that be an industry we should be champion . we should be champion the world - class workforce , the lead supply chain , and the opportunity for growth , for good , well - pay job and for prosperity . I represent a constituency in a region that be see a decline in the number of people live and work there . that be a direct result of year of hostile rhetoric towards this energy industry from the Scottish National party , or be it not still the policy of the SNP to have a presumption against oil and gas ? it be the SNP that be in coalition with the extremist Scottish Green party . with this Labour Government , it look like that party might be get its way , with a refusal to grant new licence and cut to investment allowance signal that the North sea be close for business . that be drive industry and people away , and opportunity for well - pay job be dry up . if the Scottish National party be serious about attract a talented and productive workforce to Scotland , it should start by rethink its policy towards our home - grow energy industry and start back scottish worker and scottish business . a Scottish Government publication from last year admit that they " need an immigration system that support our high education sector " . goodness I ! under the SNP , university , student and staff have not be support , but have be utterly hang out to dry . Dundee University be in dire financial strait , shed 600 job to make emergency saving . my former university , Aberdeen , have resort to a hire freeze in an attempt to fill a £ 15 million shortfall . the University of Edinburgh echo those warning , say that it need to reduce cost by £ 140 million . the shadow Secretary of State be correct to raise the dire situation at Dundee University . there be a £ 35 million deficit , £ 12 . 5 million of which be a direct result of conservative policy that have mean a restriction on immigration visa for dependant . we see an 84 % drop the year that that come in , with an 18 % drop even among undergraduate come on their own . why will he not take some responsibility for the fact that Dundee University be face such dire circumstance because of his party ' s heinous hostile immigration policy ? goodness I — talk about take responsibility ! it be only a few week ago that the SNP ' s Education Minister refuse to take any responsibility for the situation face high education in Scotland and claim that there be no direct link with the fail funding model on which scottish university rely north of the border . that model have make they far too reliant on foreign student pay exorbitant fee to keep their door open , rather than be fund properly from the Scottish Government ' s own budget . SNP Members have fail to mention that . when they talk about immigration in the context of high education , they always fail to mention that the funding model design by the Scottish National party have oblige our high education institution to be so reliant on stratospheric fee to keep the door open and keep research go . no contrition and no responsibility — that be the Scottish National party . the shadow Secretary of State be be generous in give way . to be clear , this be not a policy that affect just Dundee University , or even just Scotland . it be affect university across these island , in England , Wales and Scotland . of the top 10 university that be face financial problem , due in large part to immigration policy bring in under the last Conservative Government , more than half be in England . would he like to spread the blame across these island , rather than make it specifically about Scotland ? I be very happy to talk about our record on high education and compare it with the Scottish National party ' s . it be a fact that someone from a deprive background in England be more likely to get into university than someone from a similar background in Scotland . that be a record of which the Scottish National party should be ashamed . there be few opportunity for scottish student to get into world - lead scottish high education institution than before the Scottish National party come into office . the SNP can not admit that its funding model have fail , although the University and College Union in Scotland have say so and have repeatedly call on the Scottish Government to address the decline in scottish university funding . if the hon . Gentleman acknowledge and apologise for the Scottish Government ' s failure , I might then engage in a debate about whether we should look at an immigration system that do more for scottish high education . listen to the Conservatives after 14 year in government and the Scottish National party after 18 year in government argue about who be responsible for the problem in university be a bit like watch two bald man argue over a comb . however , the point be well make that this be a national problem . national problem be not solve by have a different policy for different part of the country ; they have national solution across the British Isles . order . will hon . member please note that intervention and speech be two very different thing ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman that we be far well when we work together on these island than when we drive each other apart . the Scottish National party ' s model for high education in Scotland have be nothing short of a failure . disadvantaged teenager be less likely to get into university in Scotland than their peer south of the border . the Scottish National party be fail the least well - off in society , block social mobility through the transformative power of education . after the shadow Secretary of State ' s long litany of talk down Scotland , the Scottish Government and all their failure , can he explain why the people of Scotland have elect the SNP for the past 18 year and why the poll show that we can expect to be elect again next year ? it ill behove I to correct the hon . Gentleman , but I be not talk down Scotland ; I be talk down the Scottish National party ' s record . I know the SNP think that it be Scotland and that Scotland be the SNP , but it most certainly be not . as for set out a long litany of failure , I have only just start , believe you I — but as this debate must conclude at 2 . 30 pm , we simply do not have time to go through the list of failure of the Scottish National party in government over the past 18 year . the people of Scotland will have the chance to demonstrate at the poll next year whether they have confidence in the Scottish National party to continue in government . that be the only poll that matter , and we will see what happen in May 2026 . let we address the utter absurdity of the Scottish Government ' s propose additional scottish graduate visa , which would allow graduate four unsponsored year . it be even possible that those on the four - year graduate visa would qualify for permanent residence . member have also raise the issue of Scotland ' s decline birth rate . propose immigration as a quick fix for a decline population be wrong - headed and short - sighted . high immigration to solve low birth rate and an age population be a pyramid - scheme response . working - age immigrant initially slow the growth of the age dependency ratio ; however , they will in turn age and perpetuate the same crisis . nation across the developed world face the myriad issue that an age population present . the Scottish National party should be more focused on support work family and improve the economic outlook and prosperity , rather than propose unfettered immigration . it might take the radical approach propose by the Scottish Conservative party of make Scotland the lowest - tax , rather than the highest - tax , part of our United Kingdom and see what that do to attract people north of the border . will the hon . member give way ? I be always delighted to give way to my constituency neighbour . the hon . member be too kind . will he identify which SNP elect Member have prescribe unfettered immigration to Scotland , because I would like to know ? as I often use to say when I be on the Government Benches , I will write to the hon . gentleman with my answer — I be sure there be one . the idea that immigrant to a country as compact as ours would not seek job opportunity in other area of the UK , should they so wish , be for the bird . be we talk about border post at Berwick , or paper be check on the Caledonian sleeper ? we be talk about a party found over 90 year ago with the sole aim of achieve Scotland ' s separation from the rest of the UK — but it still can not tell we what currency should be use in that separate Scotland . the idea that SNP Members could design an intuitive scheme so foolproof and clever that nobody could take advantage of the situation be absolutely absurd , and nobody take that seriously . turn back to the Government , it be a real shame that the Labour Government be choose to talk out this private Member ' s Bill rather than be force to take a stance , but that be unsurprising , because we be well used to Labour Members demonstrate the utterly supine nature of the Scottish Labour party on scottish issue . when face with the madness of the SNP ' s gender recognition Bill — this be raise this morning — Labour whip their msp to vote to allow male offender into woman ' s prison . when the labour leader in Scotland pay lip service to the plight face oil and gas worker in the north - east of Scotland as a direct result of the Government ' s damage policy , Labour mps stay silent . they refuse to stand up for woman in Scotland ; they refuse to stand up for work people in Scotland . time and again , they refuse to do the right thing . devolve immigration policy to the Scottish Government be clearly not the right thing , and Labour should have the courage of its conviction and say so . as set out this morning , there be no case for the devolution of immigration . this be an invent exceptionalism . Scotland be no more dependent on immigration than the rest of the United Kingdom , and the purport crisis — funding for university , the rural workforce and the decline birth rate — be not solvable by this suppose silver bullet . this be a lazy solution to a series of complex issue that the SNP in Holyrood have neglect to resolve with the power already in their hand . I be careful to outline the view of the scottish hospitality sector , care sector , tourism sector and Reform Scotland , and I could have go on . do the hon . member think that they be wrong ? we all think Michael Gove be wrong on a number of thing ; the hon . Gentleman clearly think that Mr Gove be wrong on this . do the hon . Member think that all those sectoral organisation be wrong ? I represent a part of the country that rely on tourism for its economic prosperity , and when I speak to the scottish hospitality sector , it be not immigration that it raise as its big concern , but the failure of the Scottish National party — the Scottish Government — to pass on the rate relief for hospitality business across the United Kingdom . that be the big issue face hospitality and tourism in Scotland right now , and the hon . Member would do well to raise point that with his colleague in the Parliament north of the border who have power over that rate of tax . parcel out reserve power to the SNP Government will solve none of the problem raise in this debate , and as I say , the Labour party should have the backbone to say so . a month ago , I be on a Statutory Instrument Committee on the devolution of the operation of some Social Security Scotland competence in order to avoid duplication with the Department for Work and Pensions . I say that in devolve these power to the Scottish Government " we have create additional barrier , burden and border where there be none before , and we have add no benefit whatsoever for those receive … payment either north or south of the border . " — [ Official Report , Third Delegated Legislation Committee , 25 February 2025 ; c . 5 . ] by the way , it have cost more than £ 650 million so far to establish Social Security Scotland , so lesson should be learn by the Labour Government . just as many Labour Members believe in 1997 that devolution would kill nationalism stone dead , too many UK politician of all party , mine include , believe that give ever more power to the Scottish Government will appease the Scottish National party ' s desire for independence . it will not ; that be the reason the SNP be found , and it be a perfectly rational and respectable position to hold , but the desire to break Scotland away from United Kingdom will not be diminish by devolve ever more power to Holyrood . far too often , far too little thought be give to the impact of devolution on the policy or function on which people rely . be the complex , expensive , duplicative and bureaucratic quagmire bring about by Social Security Scotland work with the DWP in Scotland really to the benefit of those in receipt of benefit ? we must ensure that we do not have devolution for devolution ' s sake . we must decide whether the devolution of a certain power to the Scottish Parliament will have a beneficial impact on people and business in Scotland . if the answer be no , the answer to devolve the power must be no , and the Government should have the courage of their conviction and say so . the Government could have demonstrate that they understand that . they could have force a division and vote down this flawed and fanciful Bill . there be no case whatsoever for the devolution of immigration and asylum policy to Scotland , but even if there be , it would not be practicable to do that . it be not viable . instead of those in the SNP come up with madcap scheme to sow more division and create more difference across our one nation , they ought to spend more time and money on proposal for invest in Scotland ' s underfunded university , tackle violence in the classroom , bring down the length of NHS waiting list , reduce drug death , build desperately need new road and bridge , improve community police and make our neighbourhood safe ; but we see where their priority lie . it be not just that the plan in the Bill be unviable , would be grossly inefficient and be completely unnecessary ; devolve power over immigration to the SNP - run Scottish Government would be to the detriment of scot and the United Kingdom . we could spend countless hour in this place on statutory instrument design to realign Scotland with the rest of the UK where needless duplication have already occur — for example , across the justice system , and across welfare and benefit payment . we do not need more needless duplication to be create by thoughtless legislation . I have set out his Majesty ' s official Opposition ' s opposition to this motion on the basis of its economic and political impact , but this be also a matter of principle . it be about whether we ought to be introduce sub - national visa and immigration system , create a more powerful sub - national or devolve Government in Scotland . the record of the SNP Government be damn , and we can not in good conscience allow yet further vandalism . may I begin by thank all member for their contribution , and the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) for bring the Bill before we today ? I be slightly confused , after his 42 - minute contribution , about what he be actually promote . he seem to be suggest that the Bill should pass and go into Committee , and then he will invent another Bill to do different thing . the Bill before we , which be what we should be debate , be a short Bill that would essentially remove immigration from schedule 5 to the Scotland Act 1998 and devolve it wholly to the Scottish Parliament . as I have say before , if nothing be in schedule 5 — order . forgive I , I may have misheard , but do you say it be a 42 - minute contribution ? maybe it be 41 minute . it be a 50 - minute contribution . I stand correct , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an even long contribution , at 50 minute , and the hon . Member be still not honest about what the Bill do . the Bill before we today devolve the entirety of the immigration system to Scotland . I be go to try to be productive with the Secretary of State , even though he have accuse I of not be honest — I want to take as many intervention from his colleague as I could , and I do . I have be open enough to say that the Bill be short so that we can try to work together , and I would love to hear Scottish Labour ' s proposal . I do not accuse the hon . gentleman of be dishonest . those be his word . maybe he be reflect on his own contribution . let I take that intervention straight on and give the House the actual quote from the deputy leader of the Scottish Labour party , not what member have determine that she may have say . I will come on to why what she say be really important and completely align with UK Government policy . the quote from the deputy leader of the Scottish Labour party be : " there would be dialogue and discussion but we need to recognise that grow home - grow talent be really important . at the moment there be no plan for " a scottish visa , " but I think if you have government take common - sense approach " to skill shortage , as " an incoming Labour Government would do , " that help resolve the problem . that be what she say , and what we be work on . let I conclude my remark with some clarity on the Scotland Act 1998 . as I say , if something be in the Scotland Act and be mention in schedule 5 , it be reserve . if it be not , it be deem to be devolve . the Bill would devolve immigration to the Scottish Government and Scottish Parliament . I make that point strongly at the start because it lead into all the other argument we have hear from hon . member from across the House about what the requirement would be at Berwick , on the border between Scotland and England . I , too , have read the very short sentence in the Bill , which do not talk just about immigration . it state : " include asylum and the status and capacity of person in the United Kingdom who be not british citizen " . my understanding — I be happy to be correct — be that if the issue be devolve to the Scottish Government , they could , essentially , grant indefinite leave to remain and all sort of british citizenship status through their power in Scotland . that could distort the entire immigration system of the United Kingdom . and the consequence be that we would require check in both direction . as the Minister for Independence — do my hon . friend know that the Scottish Government have a Minister for Independence ? — clearly say , as we have hear , that a hard border would be require in particular case . Scottish Ministers , incidentally , have just award themselves a £ 20 , 000 pay rise — certainly not on the basis of their performance . it be important to acknowledge the complexity of immigration as a cross - cut policy area . SNP Members do not want to talk about it as a cross - cut policy area , because many of the policy area around immigration be devolve to the Scottish Government . this be not simply about number . it cover issue of social cohesion , as we hear this morning , economic stability and public service . ensure we have a fair and properly manage immigration system that take account of those complexity be a priority for this Government . we have make clear that the immigration system we inherit be not work . indeed , the previous Government , which the shadow Secretary of State serve in , say that the immigration system in the UK be break . under the previous Government , between 2019 and 2024 , net migration almost quadruple , heavily drive by a big increase in overseas recruitment . I have the net migration figure here , and they have be a key part of the debate . in 2023 , the net migration figure for the United Kingdom be 906 , 000 . if there be a proportionate share of that net migration go to Scotland , then the immigration to Scotland would be somewhere in the region of 80 , 000 to 85 , 000 . indeed , it be below 60 , 000 , so a huge number of net migrant who be come to the UK be not go to Scotland . the big question have to be why . we have a huge tirade from the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry about Brexit and its consequence , but those low figure be still high than before the UK leave the European Union . the big question have to be ask : why be people not go to Scotland to work and live ? I be grateful for the constructive way the Secretary of State be approach the debate . I be not sure he can blame we for Tory migration policy . do he think we should be drive down migration , because that be not what we be hear ? do he think — we be talk about the health of the economy — that the Brexit he and I stand up against have be a net benefit for the economy ? I have say already that net migration have to come down . that be the view of the Prime Minister and this Government , because it be too high . the reason it have to come down — this go right to the heart of some of the big issue in Scotland that the SNP Scottish Government do not want to talk about — be that nearly one in six young people in Scotland be not in education , employment or training . we have shipyard in Scotland that build the very good ship in the world , employ Filipino and south african welder who look from the top of those ship into some of the poor community in Scotland and the United Kingdom , where a huge number of young people be not in employment , education or training . we need to do something about that . that be why net migration have to come down . Workforce and skill planning be a much more important way to tackle skill shortage . we have be leave business unable to find the skill they need in the UK reliant on worker from abroad . that be the record of the previous Conservative Government . let I say it again : net migration be too high , and the interaction between migration and skill in the labour market be fundamentally break . all those organisation read out by the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry in support of his proposal also say the very same thing . skill in the labour market be break , and the link between migration and skill in the labour market be fundamentally break . that be why we need confidence in the whole system , and that whole system need to be fundamentally rebuild . that be the UK Government ' s focus . we will face these challenge head - on by deliver on our mission in Scotland by kick - start economic growth , which have be a disaster under the Scottish Government . if Scotland have grow at the same level as even Manchester , the scottish economy would be ten of billion of pound large . if the city and region of Glasgow have grow at the same level as Manchester , its economy would be £ 7 billion large . Kick - start economic growth be therefore a key driver for this Government , as well as make Britain a clean energy superpower , in which Scotland will play a key part , and of course tackle poverty . I set out my Department ' s priority in Scotland during a recent speech at the University of Edinburgh . give the relevance of that to the debate ' s subject matter , let I draw on some of the point I make then . I hope that the Secretary of State will get to the territory of how we address some of the issue we face . one of issue I point out be our poor birth rate in Scotland , with only one child for every three woman . how do he think his Government ' s policy of a two - child benefit cap help address our birth rate issue ? I do not think we can determine birth rate issue through the welfare system . the hon . Gentleman be essentially say that people be choose not to have large family because of the welfare system . the fundamental problem of depopulation in Scotland have be around for 100 year — he mention that himself — but he sit on one small part of the welfare system to try to make a point that be not relevant to the debate . will the Secretary of State give way ? I be happy to give way . can the hon . Gentleman intervene less angrily than he have in the past ? the Secretary of State always enjoy the well side of my face . he characteristically paint Scotland as some sort of economic basket case , which I find a little offensive . if he want to be robust in that accusation against our industry and our enterprise , how do he explain why Scotland be persistently in the top half of economic performing region of the United Kingdom , and oftentime on certain measure in the top quartile ? I be tempt to say that Scotland be not a region but a country , but I will not go down that rather juvenile route . the clear point be that the no . 1 priority and mission of this new UK Labour Government be economic growth , because we require it in our community . if the hon . Gentleman be say that everything be rosy in Scotland , he should go to his community and see whether he think that be indeed the case . there be lot of wonderful opportunity in Scotland in term of economic growth , and we should be exploit those to create the job and career of the future . that be a key part of what we should be talk about . it be clear that level of immigration need to be reduce . the Prime Minister have also be clear that we will not be introduce an arbitrary cap . this issue will not be resolve by gimmick , unlike what we see from opposition party . it be simply not enough to cap number . without a join - up approach , our economy will be leave without the skill it need to grow . by create a fair and properly manage system , we will reduce net migration back down to sustainable level . we will achieve that through the hard work of tackle the root cause of reliance on overseas recruitment , not through gimmick such as arbitrary target . we want to ensure that business be help to hire domestic worker first . we will ensure that different part of Government draw up skill and workforce improvement plan in high migration sector . when the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry introduce his Bill , he challenge the Labour Government on what we be actually do . let I just read our manifesto to he , because actually it reflect much of what he be ask for , but that be not what his Bill want to try to achieve . it state : " we will strengthen the Migration Advisory Committee , and establish a framework for joint work with skill body across the UK , the Industrial Strategy Council and the Department for Work and Pensions . the need of our economy be different across the region and nation , and different sector have different need . give skill policy and employment support be devolve we will work with the Scottish Government when design workforce plan for different sector . this will ensure our migration and skill policy work for every part of the UK . " it also state : " the next UK Labour Government will also ensure that UK - wide body be more representative of our nation and region , this include representation for Scotland on the Industrial Strategy Council , and scottish skill body work jointly with the Migration Advisory Committee . " before the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry pop up and say , " well yes , but who be on the Migration Advisory Committee ? " , I refer he to Professor Sergi Pardos - Prado , professor of comparative politic at the University of Glasgow . he be recruit to the Migration Advisory Committee because of his knowledge on migration - relate issue in devolve area . all of the accusation lay by the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry through his 51 - minute speech have be completely dispel by the manifesto and the action of this Government already . so far there be very little in what the Secretary of State be say that I can disagree with . if he do believe that the Bill be unnecessary , why be his Government adopt tactic today to avoid a vote on it ? why do they not have courage of their conviction and vote it down ? the hon . Gentleman should be pleased , because there be only two of they to go down any of the Lobbies ; 40 % of the scottish Conservatives be here , and that make two of they — I still think it be too many , but we will work on that at the next election . as I have say , it be simply not good enough to cap number without that join - up approach . we recognise the compounding pressure that the asylum and resettlement system be place on local authority and devolve government . that be something we have not really speak about today , but we be commit to address that and deliver long - term solution , not the stick plaster politic that we hear from the party opposite . we be look at these issue carefully and will develop a new cross - Government strategy , work with stakeholder across the country and the devolve government , who will be vital partner in this work . we want to ensure that any policy alongside the broad approach to asylum and resettlement work in lockstep with the Government ' s objective to end homelessness and — I be sorry to mention a devolved issue — build 1 . 5 million new home over the course of this Parliament in England . that be not happen in Scotland . it be important to we to work together to ensure positive integration outcome and improve access for all . be it not the case that the SNP ' s housing crisis have mean that 10 , 000 kid in Scotland have no place to call their home ? I wonder whether the Secretary of State agree that tackle that housing emergency be an urgent step to ensure that we attract more worker into Scotland in order to have a workforce that can grow the scottish economy ? I very much welcome the intervention . I think it should be a national shame that 10 , 000 child in Scotland go to bed every night in a place that they can not call their own home . SNP Members do not want to talk about that in this debate , but the single big thing that affect migration in every part of this United Kingdom be the lack of housing and affordable housing . this Government be determined to deliver that for England , but of course we be not in control of Scotland . what my hon . friend might not know be that the Scottish Government declare a housing emergency on a Tuesday with a vote in Parliament and then on a Wednesday cut the affordable housing budget by £ 200 million . that be the action they take follow their rhetoric . they do not have any plan to resolve some of the big issue . we have talk a lot about demographic challenge in Scotland over the course of the debate , and I do not doubt the concern about the demography — I have a lot of concern myself about it . but the big factor that affect have child — many couple desperately do want to have more child — be lack of housing , lack of access to childcare and lack of economic opportunity . in the 20 year that the SNP Government have have to do something about this , where be the progress in address any of those issue ? if they want to look at where the problem with Scotland ' s demography lie , they should start by look in the mirror . can I just say to my hon . friend , as someone who have a 12 - week - old daughter and a four - and - a - half - year - old daughter , that we be very much — do your bit ! indeed , we be ; perhaps the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) should try do his bit a bit more . [ interruption . ] there be no need to confess now , Pete . but my hon . friend be right ; the big consideration for many family be childcare . Government Ministers be highly pay , and my wife work as well , but get access to proper childcare that be flexible enough to ensure people can stay in work be a real challenge . again , that be something the Scottish Government do not want to talk about . we have talk about the economy , public service , housing and childcare . the First Minister make a growth speech a few week ago , and his only conclusion on growth in Scotland be that we need access to visa . there be nothing else . there be no ambition . there be no solution to how we get planning sort in Scotland . there be nothing about make sure we win the global race to green power . his one recommendation be get something that have no control over , so that he do not have to take responsibility for the thing he do have control over . I think I have already congratulate the Minister on his personal contribution to population growth — that be happy news we can all get behind — but I want he to answer the question I pose early . he talk about the First Minister and growth . the big impediment to growth be our hard Brexit and our relationship with the EU . do he think that have be good or bad for growth ? this UK Labour Government be determined to reset our relationship with the European Union , have a much close trading relationship and do what be in the UK national interest . the big impediment to growth in the economy in Scotland be the SNP Scottish Government , and that have be prove through time . I thank the Secretary of State for give way once again . he will know , because he be here with I when it happen , that this House come within six vote of come to a settle position on customs union membership , which I appreciate be no long the Government ' s policy . when they become aware of how close the vote be go to be , 48 Scottish National party Members abstain , so that it would fail and they could pursue their hard Brexit grievance , to try to make sure Brexit fail , because that be what they want to put on their party leaflet . we should not rerun the Brexit debate in this House , but it be worth acknowledge that the Bill be write in a different way from what the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry want to deliver . he want to pretend that it will go to Committee , and we will all sit around the campfire with marshmallow and decide on a wonderful way forward , but that be not what the Bill say . my hon . friend get to the heart of the problem , because ultimately this be all to do with the advancement of the Scottish National party ' s independence agenda . nothing else get they out of bed in the morning . I get out of bed in the morning to try to make sure that everybody in this country , include in my constituency , have well life and well opportunity . SNP Members get out of bed to push for independence . that be the difference . when the Division bell rang on that occasion — I remember it very well — everybody think that the vote would be carry . those SNP Members sit on their hand and the vote be lose by six . all their credibility in try to push something else through be completely shoot at that moment — and do not forget that they also push for the 2019 general election at the same time . I will now canter through page 2 of my speech . it be important for we to work together to ensure positive integration outcome and improve process overall . let I turn to the valuable contribution that worker from overseas make to our economy , our public service and national life throughout the United Kingdom . as the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry have highlight , the remote part of Scotland face depopulation issue , and they have for a long time — I talk to my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) about this on a regular basis . skill shortage also remain across Scotland , as they do in different place across the UK . indeed , accord to the late population projection from the National Records of Scotland , the factor drive population change be exactly the same across the whole United Kingdom . the Secretary of State mention depopulation in rural area of Scotland and deskille . north - east Scotland — as I be sure he be aware , because we have mention it more than once in this Chamber — be face exactly that because of labour ' s policy on the North sea . skill be be drive abroad at an unimaginable rate compare with the rest of the UK . we be depopulate and deskille the north - east of Scotland because of labour ' s North sea oil and gas policy . will he reflect on that or at least accept that that be the impact labour be have on north - east Scotland ? I be in the north - east of Scotland yesterday , in Buckie , turn on one of the large offshore wind farm . Ocean Winds employ 45 to 70 local people from a 40 - mile radius from Buckie . that be the kind of opportunity there be . Most of the people in Ocean Winds be from the oil and gas sector . there be no disagreement about the challenge , which be about how we transition a world - class , highly skilled workforce from an industry that be decline because of the age and maturity of the basin to the new opportunity and industry . there be no doubt that the green revolution be one of the big economic opportunity this country have have in generation , and we need grab hold of it . I also meet Offshore Energies UK yesterday and have very productive discussion its representative about Government policy and the consultation on the North sea transition . those discussion will obviously continue . these issue — as I have lay out , base on the National Records of Scotland — be not unique to Scotland , nor have they be solve by the increase in net migration in recent year . the Bill would not address the issue that the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry have raise , because the reason that the resident population move away from an area will also encourage any migrant population to follow suit as soon as they be allow . the former Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire , mention Quebec . I have try to have this check — if it be slightly incorrect , I will write to the hon . gentleman — but when I be in Quebec back in 2013 , it have introduce a particular social care visa because it have a particular social care problem . it have to scrap that visa , because after the end of the two - year restriction , everyone move to other part of Canada to work . Most go to Alberta to work in the oil and gas sector . that be a key point about have a different system from the one that be part of those net migration figure . on the point about social care , do my right hon . friend agree that instead of look to a one - line Bill on immigration to solve the issue in social care in Scotland , perhaps the SNP Government in Holyrood could have avoid waste £ 28 million on a flawed national care service Bill , which be ill - conceive and ill - thought - out , much like the Bill that be before we today ? perhaps instead they could have invest that money in properly pay the worker who carry out the care . [ interruption . ] sorry ? order . the debate be take place with the Secretary of State , who have the floor . I agree with my hon . friend . look at the money that be waste for the national care service — again , just another headline in the newspaper that the SNP require in the run - up to an election . it also waste £ 680 million set up Social Security Scotland and want to put in place a new immigration system that will not require check , any money , or a border between Scotland and England . the key thing here , which SNP Members do not want to admit and which they vote against , be that this UK Labour Government just give the Scottish Government the large settlement in the history of the Scottish Parliament — £ 4 . 9 billion more — and there be still a social care crisis in Scotland . that tell we all we need to know about where they spend the money . if SNP Members want to pop up and tell we where they have spend it , I be sure that the scottish people watch this debate would be pleased to hear from they . it be important to address the underlie issue in a sustainable way and investigate other lever to encourage people to stay , such as boost attractive job opportunity , affordable housing , which we have discuss , local service , transport link connectivity and suitable local infrastructure . this could include invest in the area or offer taxation incentive to individual and business to do so , as we be see with some of the initiative go on in Scotland at the moment . I acknowledge the consideration that the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry have give to scottish visa and his view on they , but a separate scottish visa or a separate immigration system be not thing that the Government be currently consider , nor have we ask the independent Migration Advisory Committee to consider they . that be a straightforward Government policy . the Secretary of State be lay out that the Government be not consider this — that , basically , it be not government policy for Scotland to have control of migration or for there to be a specific scottish visa . I assume therefore that he be happy for there to be a vote , and that he be go to encourage a vote , so that he can walk through a Lobby oppose this Bill . if he feel so strongly about it , why be he not push for there to be a vote ? let I turn to what the Government be do , which might answer the hon . Lady ' s question . we be not go to set up a separate scottish visa ; and I refer she back to a previous intervention from the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry , in response to which I mention exactly what the deputy leader of the Scottish Labour party actually say in the quote that SNP Members so often misquote . however , we have commission the Migration Advisory Committee to review key sector , and the exist visa system make provision for shortage specific to Scotland . our long - term plan will see Departments work across Government , partner with agency and expert to build our skill base , tackle our labour market issue and reduce our reliance on migration . the system do actually work . I have the shortage occupation list in front of I . that list feature 20 or so different occupation , and Scotland have its own list , which include occupation shortage that be not UK - wide . for example , " boat and ship builder and repairer — all job " be a shortage occupation in Scotland , but not across the rest of the UK . " manager and proprietor in forestry , fishing and relate service " be on the list for Scotland , but not for the rest of the United Kingdom . those be just two example of big industry where Scotland do have specific entry on the shortage occupation list , as recommend by the Migration Advisory Committee . the long - term plan have to be for we to work together to resolve those skill - base issue , tackle other labour market issue and reduce our reliance on migration for workforce planning . it be also clear that different visa for different part of the UK would restrict movement and right and create internal UK border . create internal UK border have be propose by colleague of the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry in the Scottish Government . the now Minister for Parliamentary Business — we have mention he before — who be then Minister for Independence suggest that there would have to be a hard border and border check in the event that we have a different immigration system . that be all we need to know . my right hon . friend talk about the risk of introduce internal border within the UK . can he elaborate on whether he think it at all possible under our current system of governance and police to police any such border ? my hon . friend hit the practicality on the head . there be no way , at this moment in time , of monitor cross - border , because there be not a border to monitor . we have the free flow of movement of people from north to south and from England to Scotland and Wales and so on . the Government do not support create internal border of any kind . the open land border within the UK render tight control ineffective in Scotland . more permissive control would weaken the UK ' s position as a whole . consistent rule and legislation be essential to prevent a two - tier system within the United Kingdom and to avoid geographical change become a pull or push factor for those who wish to abuse the system . the current system allow flexibility and freedom for migrant worker to apply for alternative employment anywhere in the UK . furthermore , visa holder may not want to stay in particular area for much the same reason as UK national , and we can not compel they to stay indefinitely in any case . do my right hon . friend agree that migration , when manage well , be a truly wonderful thing , but this Bill would do quite the opposite ? my hon . Friend say it all , and I could not agree more . the Bill would add extra complexity to an already extremely complex system . add devolve power would increase that level of complexity even far . for example , the previous Fresh Talent : work in Scotland scheme , which we have talk about , allow international student graduate from scottish university two year in which they could work without need a sponsor employer . the route see many participant relocate to other part of the UK as soon as they could . the current graduate visa route offer all the same benefit of the old Fresh Talent route , but apply to graduate of all UK university , not just those in Scotland . I be not go to comment on the common travel area — perhaps the Secretary of State can cover that — but I want to make a more productive point . will his Government continue to be commit to that scottish graduate route , which be so important to high education ? that be one area where I think we can agree . I want to bring in a point of consensus . we be concerned about the high education system in Scotland at the moment , and this Government will do everything it can to support it . let we work through that particular point , because it be important . the main driver for scottish university be in the place they be be the funding model they have be force into have . it cap scottish student go to university . that mean the university be completely and utterly underfunded , so their business model have have to reach into international water to bring in much great number of international student to balance the book . that model be completely break if those international student decrease in number for a whole host of economic and other reason . we end up in a situation whereby the whole financial issue be completely and utterly break . to show the sum of money we be talk about , Edinburgh University be not in deficit — and it be important to say that — but it will be if it do not take action , and the deficit will be £ 140 million . that be a direct result of the Scottish Government ' s funding of high education . beyond that , the Migration Advisory Committee have also note that the scale of migration need to try to address depopulation would be significant , but that Scotland ' s labour market need be broadly similar to those elsewhere in the UK . the committee have highlight in its work notable similarity and difference within nation and region of the UK , and its ambition be to produce an analysis that be localise , but as rigorous as possible . we look forward to see that . however , the committee ' s geographic focus have at time be limit by the reliability or availability of regional datum . it will work with stakeholder to improve the geographical migration datum they use , with a view to enable great improvement in localise insight . beyond this Bill , the proposal of the party of the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry in recent year include an expand skilled worker visa for Scotland , a bespoke scottish visa , a scottish graduate visa and a remote rural partnership scheme . in relation to a scottish rural visa pilot , the Migration Advisory Committee have note that both Australia and Canada have place - base immigration programme , but it be suggest that these scheme may not be a long - term solution to rural depopulation . we hear from the former Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire , that depopulation in Scotland have be a century long and therefore any scheme will not be a long - term solution to that kind of rural depopulation . my right hon . friend be make an interesting point about the challenge face rural area where there be shortage of people . Denmark have a rota system for doctor go into rural area for a few month at a time , because it , like Scotland and part of England , have these challenge . do my right hon . friend therefore agree that have a separate immigration policy for Scotland be not the answer and that this issue be be grapple with across the world ? absolutely , and the big grappling that we have to do as a Government and a country be resolve the disconnect between immigration , skill , opportunity for young people and the way in which our economy work across every single part of the United Kingdom . one of the Migration Advisory Committee ' s key concern about some of these scheme be the efficiency of any rural visa , primarily the ability to incentivise migrant to remain locate in rural area after any visa requirement to do so lapse , especially give that the UK be a geographically much small country than Australia or Canada — and I mention the issue with regard to Quebec . migrant move to rural area would be subject to the same factor drive non - migrant population to relocate , such as inadequate health service , which be right at the top of the agenda in Scotland . do my right hon . friend agree that the state of the national health service in Scotland be contribute to the low birth rate in Scotland , and we need to invest in maternity , fertility and post - birth service for mother ? it give I no pleasure to say this , but I take great pride in the fact that this Labour Government concentrate on get the NHS back on its foot after the election , and for six month in a row — six winter month in a row — waiting list have fall . however , in Scotland they have not . despite the Scottish Government have a record settlement from the UK Labour Government and despite £ 4 . 9 billion extra , the NHS be break in Scotland because it do not have a Government who be solely focused on make sure that the health of their nation be a top priority . why be the Secretary of State talk about the Scottish Government ? I know SNP Members do not like we speak about the Scottish Government , but the Migration Advisory Committee that they have talk about a lot in this Chamber already be address these issue . they challenge I to tell they what this Government be do in relation to this Bill and migration in the scottish context , and I be tell they what the Migration Advisory Committee be say in response to this Bill . [ interruption . ] SNP member do not want to talk about it , but I will continue to talk about it until health in this country improve , and I have to say that when one in seven of my constituent be on NHS waiting list , I will continue talk about it until these light go out . non - migrant population would have the same problem as the rest of we in term of inadequate health service , the declare housing emergency , a broad lack of investment in skill and training , and economic opportunity for young people . the one element in common among all these proposal be they be design to provide a means to avoid or lower the salary requirement that apply to skilled worker visa . the Migration Advisory Committee have repeatedly advise against salary variation as they could create friction for worker move around the UK and could risk institutionalise area as be low wage . this could have the effect of entrench low pay in some area for the resident population as well as migrant worker , which would do nothing to resolve the long - term cause of depopulation . I be very proud , as be everyone on the Government Benches , of our make work pay commitment and our new deal for work people . have different salary threshold for different part of the UK would also add complexity to an already complicate immigration system and would create difficulty for employer who operate across multiple region of the UK , potentially require they to monitor the physical location of their employee and report that information to the Home Office to ensure compliance . of course we be aware of the demographic and labour market challenge face by certain area , sector and industry , but we have see record - high net migration level in recent year while depopulation have remain an issue for Scotland , suggest that immigration be not a solution to those challenge , especially give that we can not practically compel people to stay in a particular area indefinitely . instead , we be take action through a join - up approach across Government , in the UK ' s immigration , labour market and skill system , to train up our own home - grow workforce , end the over - reliance on international recruitment and boost economic growth in every single part of the UK . at the same time , the Government have confirm that the change make to key visa route early last year will remain in place to drive level down far . additionally , as we announce last November , shameless and bad employer that flout UK employment law will be ban from sponsor overseas visa , as part of tough new action to clamp down on visa abuse and prevent the exploitation of overseas worker . I hope that the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry and his colleague will give we their support in Scotland to ensure that worker be not exploit by rogue employer . let I turn to skill and migration . the Government recognise and value the important contribution that overseas worker make to our economy and public service throughout the United Kingdom . as the hon . Gentleman have highlight , remote part of Scotland face depopulation , and skill shortage remain at their high level across Scotland . however , those issue have not be solve by the increase in net migration in recent year . indeed , many of the action need to fix Scotland ' s skill shortage be already devolve matter under the control of the Scottish Government , so his SNP colleague in Holyrood already have the lever they need to address those challenge . they may wish to try pull some of those lever — perhaps he can do so himself , because he want to be a Member of the Scottish Parliament . indeed , I think a high proportion of his colleague think the same . maybe that be why the leader of the SNP in this House , the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , have already disappear to go back to Scotland and make the case for his selection . let I just run through some of the lever that the Scottish Government could pull . they include power relate to business rate , social security and tax ; the record settlement of £ 47 . 7 billion , which be £ 4 . 9 billion more than before ; and , of course , responsibility for education , health , housing , and employability and skill . they do not want to talk about any of those thing . business and union consistently tell we that they worry about the skill gap in Scotland . I be surprised that SNP Members do not care about this stuff . this be not just about skill and job ; it be about opportunity for young people . perhaps they do want to talk about it , because they all want to go to the Scottish Parliament and to refocus on what they be deliver . the UK Government be focus on deliver outcome and secure the future through our plan for change . simply put , young people in Scotland — whether in work or seek work — be not be support with the skill and training that they need to succeed . Scotland ' s rate of economic inactivity remain above that of the rest of the UK . I be not shy about repeat this : nearly one in six young people in Scotland be not in education , employment or training . some 1 , 351 young people in Scotland leave high school last year with absolutely no qualification — an entire high school - worth of young people write off with no future because the Scottish Government refuse to do something about it . I be very proud that this UK Labour Government have relentlessly focus on get people into work and develop their skill by increase the national living wage and legislating to make work pay ; strengthen worker ’ right and protection ; provide £ 240 million for the Get Britain Working plan , which will overhaul jobcentre with a focus on skill and career ; and deliver a proper industrial strategy , develop in partnership with business and trade union , to ensure that we get the economy , and the people in it , work . however , the Scottish Government also have a huge role to play , and they must use the lever that they have . as I have say before , I want co - operation between government to drive our economic growth , and skill be central to that . I hope that the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry , his party and his colleague in Holyrood will engage with all that work and replicate its focus in their programme for government next month , which I think be their fourth or fifth in four year — every other programme for government so far have be an abject failure . I would be particularly interested to see further work on skill and education , build on the work of the Withers review , because right now the SNP Government be fail on skill . why ? the hon . Gentleman ask why and I will tell he . the number of college place be at its low level in a decade , with more cut on the way ; the attainment gap between the rich and poor continue to grow ; and , disgracefully , thousand of pupil leave school last year with absolutely no qualification , as I have say . that can not be allow to continue . this be nothing new . be it not the current First Minister who lobby for tax break for private school , whereas this Labour Government end tax break for private school ? immigration ! SNP Members keep shout " Immigration ! " , but as the Migration Advisory Committee have say , the immigration issue be complex , because it be about housing , health , education , skill , work and employment , and this be the First Minister ' s record on that . that be not all that the First Minister do as Education Secretary . we all remember the disgrace of working - class kid be mark down by the First Minister and the Scottish Qualifications Authority during the pandemic . under he , poor kid be penalise by postcode — penalise by their poverty . poor kid could not be get the result that they be get , so they be mark down . bright and from a working - class area ? the First Minister do not believe that you deserve the grade that your teacher decide you should have get . order . this be a very interesting riff on education , but can we get back to the immigration point , please ? thank you for your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker , but the important point be that immigration and skill be completely link . if the education system be break and the skill system be break , the SNP reach for a Bill like this one , rather than reach for the lever at the disposal of the Scottish Government . I speak from experience . a work - class person look to get on in life need the security of a house , the opportunity of a career and someone to believe in they . during the pandemic , thousand of working - class kid be send a clear message by the First Minister that he do not believe in they . for our part , to tackle skill shortage , we will focus on investment in job , infrastructure and public service by upskille resident worker and tackle economic inactivity . we will reduce the reliance on international recruitment to fill role . we will have a shortage occupation list that include specific occupation and sector that be require in our national interest and for our economy . in addition , the UK Government want to engage with body in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland that be responsible for skill matter . that work be under way and will link directly to the Migration Advisory Committee , the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council , the Department for Work and Pensions and , of course , Skills England from an English and Welsh perspective . what be important be not only economic security for individual and the opportunity that a strong economy would provide for they , but the economic security of our country . the SNP vote against Great British Energy and oppose nuclear power , both of which be vital to our energy security and our economic security . if it be oppose to those , how can we be sure that it would be competent to deliver immigration policy ? it astound I that the leader of the Scottish National party in this place , the right hon . member for Aberdeen South , have GB Energy headquarter in his own constituency but vote against it . SNP Members vote against the extra £ 4 . 9 billion in the Budget , and they stand against nuclear power . those three example show why Scotland need to take a new direction at the election next year . do the Secretary of State agree that the list of thing that SNP Members oppose include job be create in that constituency ? with GB Energy , and indeed with the green revolution go on across the globe , my ambition be not just that Scotland will play a part , but that it will win the global race . it be well place to do so , with first mover advantage . the thing this government have do — set a mission for clean power by 2030 , set up and capitalise GB Energy and have a National Wealth Fund — be all part of make sure that Scotland win that global race , and of create the job of the future . it seem to I , to be fair , that this Bill be about create job in Scotland — but job for form checker and passport checker at the border between England and Scotland , rather than anything particularly useful . do my right hon . friend agree ? my hon . friend be absolutely correct . all the Scottish National party debate that I have see in this Chamber since I be lucky enough to be elect in 2010 have be predicate on independence . there have be no positive debate about what we can do to make thing well for people in Scotland , increase economic growth , create skill and opportunity for the future , tackle inequality in health or close the attainment gap . those be all failure of the Scottish National party , but SNP Members do not want to talk about they . I be sure you do not want I to continue to talk about they either , Madam Deputy Speaker . the point that the Secretary of State make about the oil and gas sector be very pertinent . at Ardersier , the First Minister of Scotland and a representative of the UK Government meet with Haventus relatively recently to support the investment there with joint effort from both government . that be very welcome , but to support that we need a thriving service and hospitality sector , which be a real problem in my constituency . in part of the highland in Moray , in place such as Nairn and Aviemore , there be a grow population . despite that , there be hospitality business that be open only five day a week out of seven , because they can not staff they — they can not get the staff . how do the Secretary of State suggest that we deal with that ? as I have say throughout this debate , this be a really complex area . we can not deal with it by just pull on one lever and with a separate immigration system . we can deal with it by provide proper pay in the workplace , which be what we have do through our new deal for work people . we can provide housing , so that people can live there and afford to live there . we can provide connectivity , so that people can move around . a very practical thing that the Scottish Government could have do be to pass on the full rate relief that english hospitality business have , which be not pass on to scottish hospitality business . indeed , despite this Government legislate for a 40 % reduction in perpetuity , the Scottish Government still refuse to do that . I be sure my hon . friend the Member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) will agree that the difficulty in my constituency be not the issue of proper pay or housing . [ interruption . ] if Labour member will just listen for a moment , they will hear the issue be that we be at full employment . some 2 . 3 % of the population between the age of 16 and 64 be unemployed . by any definition , that be full employment . the issue be that we can not get the staff . the Secretary of State be duck the question , so will he please answer it ? let we do a little mathematic . some 2 . 3 % of the population in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency be unemployed , and nearly one in six young people across Scotland be not in education , employment or training . that be nearly 100 , 000 young people alone . the question must be : why be those young people not seek out those job in his constituency and the constituency of the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) ? the hon . Gentleman want to say to those young people , " you stay not in employment , education or training , and we will pull a separate immigration lever to get people to work in poorly pay industry , rather than boost pay , career , progression and the place that people want to live and work in . " Scotland have a proud industrial past — indeed , we all know that from history — and it can have a bright industrial future that deliver job and wealth for family for generation to come . for too long , scottish worker have miss out on work , and I worry that a new generation will miss out on the skill require to take up the new opportunity . while the Scotland Office will seek to work in co - operation with the Scottish Government , I be afraid that this debate be just another example of the SNP demand more power to distract from its own failure rather than take responsibility for they . UK visa be tie to location already — an international student at the University of Edinburgh be not commute from Somerset . the question be then : at a time when the previous Government preside over record level of immigration , why be Scotland not a more attractive place for people come to the UK to work or study ? I suggest that it be down to 20 year of SNP failure on policy delivery . do my right hon . friend agree that if we want to attract people to work in our great nation of Scotland , it be important that he continue the work he have be do to promote business and service globally in Brand Scotland ? [ interruption . ] the flippancy with which SNP Members deal with these relevant and serious issue be there for all to see . I hope that a lot of our non - scottish colleague who be here today have see how utterly deplorably they operate in this Chamber and how rude and patronising they be when we be deal with serious issue for our constituent . Brand Scotland be there to do exactly that : to ensure that we get inward investment into Scotland , to sell Scotland to the world and to have a much more thriving economy for our community . the Secretary of State be be exceedingly generous with his time . SNP Members keep say , " Don ' t talk about the Scottish Government " , but the Bill ' s aim be to devolve power from this place to the Scottish Parliament and Scottish Government , so I think the competence of the Scottish Parliament be in scope . immigration be neatly and importantly link to our national security . we have one system , which be an important layer of our national security . the Scottish National party wish to frack that situation . have the Secretary of State have any guidance from the Ministry of Defence or the Home Office on the implication of the immigration system change that SNP Members be attempt to achieve ? we have not yet examine this in any great detail in this debate , but defence and our national security be huge issue . we hear a bit about boat crossing ; nobody want to see those . we want to smash the gang and stop the crossing . one person cross by small boat be one too many , because they be put in danger their life and the life of other , and that have to stop . there be a huge defence and national security issue here , because the small boat crossing be run by criminal gang in Europe and on the street of constituency all around the country . the answer to the question my hon . friend just pose be not in the Bill . this be a short Bill to devolve the whole immigration and asylum system to the Scottish Parliament . the Bill do not actually say what it will do . I have no doubt about the honesty and integrity — and any other word we might pluck out of the sky — of the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry , but we can not take the Bill at face value . he say , " pop it into Committee and everything will be wonderful , " but we do not know the implication of his Bill . if he want to , he could have bring in a Bill that address that point . I be grateful for the Secretary of State ' s characteristically kind word about I . I be happy to take guidance , and to engage with civil servant and the MOD . either vote the Bill out or do not , but let we engage with it . this be the most that the Secretary of State for Scotland have speak in any debate since he be elect , so why will he not use the debate positively ? I think I have use the debate positively . I have spend a long time talk about our skill agenda , our plan to make work pay , GB Energy , the national wealth fund , economic growth and Brand Scotland . all those thing be very positive and have be deliver in the first few month of this Labour Government . if the Scottish Government have the same focus on deliver for the people of Scotland as we have down here , they would be in a much well place . in the debate , any number of challenge relate to practicality and principle have be raise about the Bill , and we have repeatedly have SNP Members shout out , " put the Bill to a vote , then ! " every time they say that , everyone else in the Chamber hear , " we don ' t have any answer to the question and point that you raise . " put the Bill to a vote would be purely symbolism , and not a serious use of the House ' s time . absolutely , and I hope that my hon . friend would say that this contribution from the Government Dispatch Box be a very good use of the Government ' s time . the very good ! I thank my hon . friend very much — I hope Hansard hear that . I do say that the attractiveness of Scotland as a place to live and work be down to policy delivery , and let I mention one policy in particular . like the shadow Secretary of State , I will be run the London marathon on Sunday . I mention that because people do not run marathon by make excuse , yet when we hear from SNP Members about skill , growth , health and university , the excuse be always either immigration policy or a lack of devolution . if there be always an excuse for their failure , they will not achieve anything . that be why we need a serious debate about how we will get more people into Scotland . order . I be not sure that the hon . member highlight his prowess in run the London marathon be appropriate to the Bill , but I wish he well . we all wish my hon . friend well , Madam Deputy Speaker . I hope that " wish he well " go as far as go to his JustGiving page and throw he a few quid . my record for 26 mile be base on how fast I can drive the car , not how far I can run ; I know hon . member will find that difficult to believe . a key reason why it might not be attractive to live and work in some place in Scotland , and why reach for this Bill would be wrong , be the provision of health service . there be no great issue for our constituent ; health be always the no . 1 priority for they , whether they live in Wales , Northern Ireland , England or Scotland . concern about health service be top of the agenda for scottish people . however , people in Scotland receive less cancer treatment than their neighbour in other part of the UK , and the 62 - day waiting time standard that be put into law have not be meet in Scotland since 2012 , more than 13 year ago . over the winter , waiting list in England fall for six month in a row , but over 100 , 000 scot have be stick on an NHS waiting list for test or treatment for over a year . that be 26 % high than just a year ago . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . be it a real point of order ? it be . it fall to I to very humbly make this point of order . what can you , as Chair of the proceeding , do , within your power , to ensure that we have an adequate debate on what this Bill be about ? I be not sure if I be thankful for that point of order . the Chair be oversee the debate . I have listen to it very closely . I appreciate that it be about immigration . I know that the Bill be very thin — it be only two page long — but it be broad in scope . I will continue to listen very closely to the Secretary of State , and he will ensure that his comment be within scope of the Bill . if my comment fall out of scope , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would be very happy for you to tell I , as you have the right to , and as you do so well ; I will then change my remark . however , the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire spend three quarter of his rather lengthy contribution talk about the same issue that I be address . he may want to reflect on that . I welcome your ruling , Madam Deputy Speaker , with regard to the focus of the debate . you be speak about waiting list time for cancer treatment . what have that get to do with immigration ? secondly , you keep focus on — Order . I know the debate be very intense , but " you " mean I . no doubt the hon . member be not critique I . I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Secretary of State be talk about health metric . we will see about the validity of some of those health metric for England over the next few month , but there be many other metric in health and social care . in Scotland , we be very proud to have free prescription , free social care , free personal care and many more benefit . I will not list they all in the way that you do , with your litany of so - call failure , because I want to talk up Scotland — Order . that be twice ! " you " refer to the Chair . I think that be the end of that intervention . I call the Secretary of State . just for clarity for member of this House who be not scottish , free personal care be a labour policy of the last Labour Administration in Scotland . let I deal directly with that intervention , which be well - meaning . the reason why we be talk about health be that the issue concern the birth rate . we have hear already about the lack of maternity service , and the lack of maternity and paternity support , both pre - birth and post - birth . they be a key part of whether people determine to have more child . People may have in the back of their mind the question of whether they want to go to Scotland and sit on a waiting list with one in seven of their fellow scot , or want to live somewhere where the waiting list be go down . do they want to live in Scotland , where the Government have pass an Act commit to a 62 - day waiting time , but have not meet that target in 13 year ? do they want to be on an NHS waiting list that be 26 % long today than it be last year ? do they want to be in a place where in the first nine month of 2024 , over 36 , 500 procedure be pay for by patient because they have to get their cataract , hip and knee replacement do ? they even have to pay for round of chemotherapy because their choice be pay or pain . that be the choice that this Scottish Government have give to patient . there be a two - tier NHS in Scotland : one for those who can pay , and one for those who have to wait in pain . despite that abysmal backlog and scot be force to go private , almost 50 , 000 few operation be carry out a year than before the pandemic . do the hon . Gentleman want to intervene and say whether I have answer his question about why health be relevant to the debate ? perhaps not . the body responsible for community health and social care — a sector with a fair proportion of international worker — face a funding gap in Scotland of £ 457 million . council that have be slash to the bone be responsible for social care service . the outsourcing of social care service and the driving down of wage be the only option that council have be leave with because of the constant underfunding of social care by the Scottish Government . I make no apology for highlight the SNP ' s record in Scotland on the issue that it be responsible for . SNP Members never want to talk about the power they have — just the power that they do not have . but let I be slightly more positive and talk about our work together in a spirit of co - operation . the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry might want to reflect on this . I will share an example of Scotland ' s two government work together on an immigration issue . last August , 19 female afghan medical student , bar by the Taliban in Afghanistan from complete their medical university study , arrive in Scotland to train to become doctor . previously , the woman be confine to their home and unable to contribute to their society through a medical career . many fear for not just their career but their life . they feel that their life be in danger , and they live in fear of the Taliban . the UK Government ' s Scotland Office propose student visa as an alternative route to use the afghan citizen resettlement scheme , and the Scottish Government confirm that they would introduce legislation to amend student funding regulation to ensure that the woman could attend scottish medical school and complete their study . it be a tremendous effort of co - operation between the UK and Scottish Governments , broker by the wonderful Linda Norgrove Foundation . Linda Norgrove be an aid worker from the Western Isles in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar . the foundation be set up by Linda Norgrove ' s parent John and Lorna in memory of their daughter , who be kidnap and die during a fail rescue attempt in Afghanistan in October 2010 . the foundation aim to support woman and child affect by war in Afghanistan . it have raise more than £ 3 million since it be establish in 2010 , which have be spend on a wide range of project , from literacy programme to calligraphy class . it have be provide scholarship for woman to study medicine , dentistry , the law and business at university . that come to an end when the Taliban ban woman from attend university . on behalf of the UK Government , and I be sure the Scottish Government , I commend the foundation for its ongoing extraordinary work on this aspect of immigration . I highlight it not to make a political point , but because it show that when we have an issue that need to be resolve and the Scottish and UK government can work together , we can resolve these kind of issue directly . those afghan woman , when they complete their medical study in Scotland , can contribute so much to the country and to their future . this Government look forward to publish the immigration White Paper . we will reduce immigration and work to provide Scotland with the economic growth , job and opportunity that it deserve and need . we will continue to work with the Scottish Government on deliver for Scotland — we have reset that relationship — but we will also respect the devolution settlement . however , the UK Government do not believe that this Bill , devolve further power on immigration , be the solution to Scotland ' s depopulation or skill shortage . we need both government work together in this vital area , and if the Scottish Government be not willing to do that , I suggest that they stand aside next year and allow Labour to do it for they . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) on the way in which he open the debate . I thank he for lay out why it be essential that until Scotland be an independent nation , free to return to the security and stability of the European Union , the very least we need to secure our economic future be a scottish visa . such a visa would allow the Scottish Government to bring people to Scotland to work in the part of the economy in which they be most need — in tourism , hospitality , care , our fishing industry , or wherever those close to the problem can identify a need . you will be delighted to hear , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I will not speak for long and will keep to the scope of the Bill . the Secretary of State will know that in my constituency of Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber , and indeed across rural Scotland , we have a large age population — a population that be therefore largely non - economically active — and that be utterly unsustainable . there be a demographic crisis come , because we be suffer from population decline . the Secretary of State know that rural Scotland — Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber in particular — desperately need people . it need people to come and live , to open a business , to invest , to work , to put down root , and hopefully to raise a family . not only do he know that , but previous Secretaries of State have know that . not only do the Home Secretary know that , but previous Home Secretaries have know that . but because of the anti - immigration hostile environment on the part of the previous Government and , I have to say , the complete moral cowardice on the part of this government , it be an issue that they will not address . indeed , it would appear — I hope I be wrong — that the Government be so craven that they will not even allow a vote on the Bill . I hope that I be wrong and that we can divide on the Bill . this be not a crisis that have just emerge and it have not take anyone , least of all the Government , by surprise ; this have be go on for year . we have talk about it time and again in this place , but for reason that have nothing to do with Scotland , and indeed that work against Scotland ' s good interest , no one in this place seem prepared to address it . More than five year have pass since February 2020 , when I ask the then Tory Scotland Secretary about the introduction of a scottish work visa . he reply that the Government have " no plan to devolve immigration . the new system will recognise the need of all the nation and region of the UK , include Scotland . " in September this year I ask the new Labour Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Scotland , the hon . member for Midlothian ( Kirsty McNeill ) — the exact same question , only to be give an almost identical reply . she say : " I look forward to work with the Home Office and engage with sector on ensure that immigration work for all part of the UK . " — [ Official Report , 4 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 299 . ] so , five year apart , and a new Secretary of State and a new government , but almost an identical answer . that be not change ; that be continuity . what the hon . Gentleman be talk about as a potential solution to the demographic problem he face seem to be much narrow than the total of what the Bill would achieve , should it pass through the House . the Bill be about immigration , include asylum and status . I be sure he have have conversation with the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) about the practicality of that . the UK have an asylum backlog , although that be get low because of work by the Home Office . under the proposal for a devolved asylum and immigration system , would the Scottish Government take a proportion of that backlog , move those people to Scotland and process those asylum claim as part of an independent system in Scotland , or would he expect the remainder of the UK to keep that burden and share it out ? I be genuinely interested in the practicality of what he be suggest . first , I would question the language about asylum seeker be a burden . I think asylum seeker be here in the main for good , honourable and honest reason . I do not view they as a burden . I believe that the Scottish Government already take care of that , and yes , there will be cross - border co - operation until such time as we can have our own independent asylum policy . but again , I do not see that as be a great barrier that should stop a good idea from be far discuss . the Government be continue what the previous Government do and be absolutely oblivious to the need of rural Scotland . they will not do anything , because essentially it be not politically expedient for they so to do . the hon . Gentleman skirt over the question of the cost of do this . the burden be not the individual , but there be a huge cost to the UK Home Office of deliver the system and help people through it — everything from detention centre at airport and elsewhere , to the processing of the claim , the greeting and receiving of people when they sadly arrive on boat and by other route , and the management of the border . all those thing be cost , and that be a burden to the taxpayer — it be a fact of life that it do cost the taxpayer . I be wonder where the hon . Gentleman think the money will come from and what they be go to cut in Scotland to fund this . as long as we be , unfortunately , part of the United Kingdom , the United Kingdom Government will have a responsibility and a role to play . we should be allow asylum seeker to work and contribute to the economy , because the current system be a complete nonsense . we should also be look very closely at how we treat these vulnerable individual . I do not think we should be take any lecture from the previous Government or this Government on how we treat the most vulnerable people . rise — I will make some progress , because I say I would stick to the scope of the Bill . the final thing I will say to the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) be that I do not think it be beyond the wit of everyone in this place to come to an equitable solution . I do not think that throw up this smokescreen on Second Reading — [ interruption . ] it be a smokescreen — be a useful thing to do . let we give this Bill its second reading and take it into Committee , and let we dig in to that minutia , because unless and until we do so , this House will continue to bat this away , and it be not a sustainable position . I do not need to remind the Secretary of State that Scotland vote overwhelmingly to remain in the European Union . we do that , I believe , because we recognise the enormous benefit that membership of the European Union bring to Scotland . one of the great of those benefit be freedom of movement — the ability for our people to move freely across Europe and for Europeans to come here . there be hardly a caf é , hotel , guest house or pub in Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber that do not have a young european — more often than not , several young Europeans — work in it . they fill essential seasonal gap in the local labour market , allow business to remain open and serve the need of visit tourist . that be all go , and once thriving business be now struggle to find the staff they have depend on . many hitherto successful seven - day - a - week business be now operate five , four or sometimes only three day a week , and not because the visitor have go but because they simply can not get the staff . the add bonus be that when these bright , young , ambitious Europeans come , they often decide to stay , or they would return later to raise a family and set up home in Scotland . indeed , it be a cornerstone of Argyll and Bute council ' s plan for economic regeneration . that whole plan be predicate on continue to have access to EU national and be able to attract they into the area . through no fault of our own , and despite vote overwhelmingly to remain in the European Union , the insanity of Brexit have take that away from they . the UK Government , have take that away from they , now have a responsibility to provide a solution , particularly to help those rural area suffer from depopulation . rise — I have rarely in my life be more popular . I give way to the hon . member for Mansfield ( Steve Yemm ) . give that the SNP decide to withdraw an amendment to the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill on this very policy early this year , do the hon . Member agree that today ' s Bill be a cheap stunt rather than a meaningful attempt to make Scotland a more attractive place to live and work ? [ interruption . ] my hon . friend the Member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) can not respond to the hon . Gentleman , so allow I to do so : what amendment ? what be he talk about ? he have get no idea . to return to the point , the UK Government , have take that away from the rural community in Scotland , now have a responsibility to provide a solution . if they will not do it , for ideological reason , the least they can do be allow the Scottish Government to do it , because we can not go on this way . I be not surprised that all we have see from Labour Members be they line up to kick the Scottish Government and the SNP . that be politic ; and , to be fair , they would be as well take every opportunity to do it , because they will probably not last for long . by 2047 , the proportion of working - age people in Scotland will be small than it be now , and the number of people of pensionable age be expect to rise . that be a huge threat , not just to our economy but to our ability to provide public service . of course , there be no magic bullet , and nobody have say that about this Bill , but what it propose be a hugely important tool in the toolkit . the hon . Gentleman talk about the need of his constituent , which be worthy and notable . can he explain to the House , then , why he oppose the nuclear deterrent , which be base in his constituency and be the second big employer in Scotland ? the job it provide could go some way to address the point he make . Madam Deputy Speaker , allow I to veer ever so slightly from my promise to remain within the scope of the Bill in order to answer the hon . Lady ' s question . I think I join the campaign for Nuclear Disarmament when I be 16 , before I join the SNP . I have be a lifelong opponent of nuclear weapon . when I stand in my constituency in 2015 , 2017 , 2019 and 2024 , I make no bone about my position on nuclear weapon , and my constituent vote for I . she suggest that this be a massive issue , but it be not an issue for the people of Argyll , Bute and — now — South Lochaber . I would gently point out that my position be also the position of the Labour party in Scotland . I will conclude . the introduction of a regional immigration policy to reflect the need of the circumstance at the time have work in Australia , Canada and other part of Europe , and there be no reason , other than a complete lack of political will , why that can not happen here . we have hear a lot of quotation from the Migration Advisory Committee , and it would be remiss of I not to quote it myself . it have say that " the current migration system be not very effective in deal with the particular problem remote community experience … if these problem be to be address something more bespoke for these area be need . " it say that six year ago . here we be , six year on , and while we have have a change of Government and a change of Secretary of State , we have see absolutely no progress on this issue . indeed , I dare say that what we have hear today be the Labour party backtrack on it . allow I to finish by say this : we need a bespoke immigration policy in Scotland . we have be do in by the insanity of Brexit . we be reel from what have happen to we and the impact it be have , particularly on our rural community . everyone can see that , but there be intransigence on the part of the Government to recognise what be in front of their nose . I fear for they that the people of Scotland will recognise that when it come to Scotland and the need of Scotland , we do not figure particularly highly on this Government ' s agenda . claim to move the closure ( Standing Order no . 36 ) . question put forthwith , that the question be now put . Si â n Berry Andrew Bowie Christopher Chope Harriet Cross Dave Doogan Stephen Flynn Stephen Gethins Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Seamus Logan Iqbal Mohamed Pete Wishart Kirsty Blackman Brendan O ' Hara Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Johanna Baxter Polly Billington Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Deirdre Costigan Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Ashley Dalton Stephen Doughty Kirith Entwistle Josh Fenton - Glynn Barry Gardiner Georgia Gould Lilian Greenwood Carolyn Harris Meg Hillier Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Adam Jogee Gerald Jones Gurinder Josan Naushabah Khan Peter Lamb Andrew Lewin Justin Madders Keir Mather Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Ian Murray Alex Norris Matthew Patrick Lee Pitcher Richard Quigley Joani Reid Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Gareth Snell Alison Taylor Rachel Taylor Adam Thompson Henry Tufnell Harpreet Uppal Christian Wakeford Melanie Ward Chris Webb Sean Woodcock Steve Yemm Kate Dearden Vicky Foxcroft the House divide : Ayes 12 , Noes 50 . question accordingly negative . debate resume . I congratulate the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) on bring forward this Bill . it take I back to the halcyon day when I serve as an immigration Minister . I be delighted to have the opportunity to speak about that experience and explain why I therefore disagree with the premise of his Bill . there be thing the hon . Gentleman say that we might find agreement on . he say that migration be a good thing . I would add that , yes , it be , but it need to be control and it need to be where there be need . I recognise that there be certainly need in Scotland and other part of the United Kingdom . we need to make sure that any immigration policy that we support and any change that the Government introduce be lead by those principle . the hon . Gentleman talk about pool and share sovereignty . we be in a United Kingdom , and I agree that be part of the United Kingdom be the right thing . that be why I be a unionist at heart . I be proud to have serve in what be then her Majesty ' s Government as a Home Office Minister , work on a number of issue that cover the entirety of the UK . the hon . Gentleman speak at length about young people . we know that the demographic of Scotland be a particular challenge , but as the Secretary of State and other highlight , the Scottish Government ' s record on young people be woeful , with one in six not in education , employment or training . it be a scandalous level of disregard for the future of the whole UK but in particular Scotland , where young people be the lifeblood of the future of economic development and can help we ensure that we do not have to deal with the issue that the hon . Gentleman and his colleague have highlight today . it be shocking that the demographic of Scotland be as they be , and I compare this with England . I represent a constituency where our demographic be change , and around one in five young people be now under the age of 16 . we be invest in those young people . as I say when I go into school , " you be the future of our country . you need to get good job and do well . you will be pay the pension of old people . you will be care for people and run the country . we need you . " we believe in invest in our young people , and it be a shocker that the Scottish Government have sleepwalk into let young people fail so badly . there be such talent among young people in Scotland , and they have be sorely let down . they should be the lifeblood of the country , and the Scottish Government should be do more to support they . a number of member have mention the Migration Advisory Committee . I will go on to speak about it in more detail , but the fact that the Secretary of State for Scotland and the Home Secretary have indicate very clearly their willingness to engage rather undermine the hon . Gentleman ' s argument for the need for the Bill in the first place . the Migration Advisory Committee have a role to cover the need of migration across the country — that is , the whole of the UK , include Scotland . the hon . Gentleman mention fresh talent . he talk about example where the Scottish Government work very closely with the Home Office . the Secretary of State highlight an example , too — the afghan woman medical student . that be an example of how we can work together in the interest of the UK and Scotland . we be do that already , so what on earth be the reason to have a separate Bill on migration ? I want to touch on the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) in his excellent speech . he speak from a place of real knowledge about the challenge for island community , include ferry . I have very fond memory of spend time in the Isle of Wight as child . it be small , but the challenge be very similar . I feel his pain in relation to the ferry . I could repeat what he say about the failure of the SNP Government on ferry , but give the many thing I need to talk about in the next half an hour or so , I will just say that he highlight that very clearly . he also lay out clearly some of the challenge and burden of a separate system of immigration . it be not a cost - free option . it be costly to the taxpayer , duplicative and confusing for business . he also debunk the myth of a virtual border — something we hear rather too much about during Brexit . on the basis of the SNP ' s track record , any future Labour Government in Scotland , which we all hope to see in 2026 , will have a lot on their plate . I do not think that deal with immigration be anywhere near the top of the agenda , because a Scottish Labour Government would see very clearly the benefit of work across the United Kingdom , between Whitehall and Edinburgh , to make sure we all deliver for all our community . certainly , set up a new system would not be a priority . it be a bit disingenuous of the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) to suggest that we be concede victory to the SNP next year . it be precisely because of the SNP Government ' s mess that we need to win next year and it be precisely because of their mess that the idea of a new immigration policy as a priority , when they have fail in so many other respect , be not something we should entertain . I want to move on to my more detailed remark . as I have say , I be very pleased to speak in the debate because I believe in devolution . I be a passionate believer in devolve power to the most appropriate level , to competent body . I serve as a councillor in Islington in the day when we be devolve thing to neighbourhood . for my young colleague , this be in the day before the internet — those day do exist . we want service to be within pram - push distance and decision devolve to the community well place to make they . I have the honour of serve in the Government of Gordon Brown as an immigration Minister for three year , spend a lot of time travel across the UK to look at the issue . I will touch on that in relation to Scotland in a moment . I both debate the issue and follow it since in the UK generally , and specifically in Scotland . the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) highlight the recruitment issue and the workload crisis , but as my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) so eloquently put it , as be his will not , attract people somewhere be not down to immigration policy . immigration be one element , but as the academic Richard Florida highlight , people will go to place where there be good education , a good cultural offer , excellent transport link and a tolerant community . we can all learn about how we can make our own constituency attractive . of course , we do not have problem attract people Hackney South and Shoreditch , except on the knotty issue of the cost of housing , which be another very important factor to attract people . give all the challenge of covid , many people move from expensive area like mine , where a typical two - bedroom flat be £ 750 , 000 and rent be through the roof , to area where they could get cheap housing , because they have the opportunity to work from home and good broadband . I therefore suggest to the SNP Government in Scotland that they think about broadband speed , and sweeten the offer on housing to attract young people to live and work in Scotland . they should make sure that their school , health service and so on be deliver to attract they to what be a beautiful country with much to offer . but why be it that people be not stay ? that be a failure of the SNP Government and we need to be absolutely clear about that . as I have say , I start my career devolving service to the most appropriate level , in Islington — a borough of that size ! it start as 24 neighbourhood , but we reduce down to 12 , because we have to take account of cost and so on . I pay tribute to Councillor Maurice Barnes , who propose that approach to deliver service to make sure that they be really embed in the community . in 1998 , when the Labour Government come in have promise devolution , we see under Donald Dewar the new dawn of a devolve Scotland . the giant who lead on that devolution proposal should be respect for what they deliver . devolution in Scotland be a breakthrough , and it be something I support , but if we be go to devolve power , we also need to make sure that the authority be competent to deal with those devolve power . the electorate in Scotland , of course , will have their say on that in 2026 . today , we have not hear much of the nitty - gritty of exactly what the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry be propose , so it might be worth pause for a moment to remind ourselves of what this one - line Bill look to be suggest . the Scottish Parliament be govern by the Scotland Act 1998 , and the devolution settlement in Scotland operate on what be know as a reserved power model , of which a lot of our scottish colleague will be fully aware . schedule 5 to that Act list the power that remain reserved — that is , which be the responsibility of the UK Parliament . generally speak , anything not list in schedule 5 be devolve by default to the Scottish Parliament . under paragraph b6 of part ii of schedule 5 , immigration and nationality be a reserved matter . modification to the list of reserved matter can be make in two way : by an order in Council under section 30 ( 2 ) of the Act , or via primary legislation . the hon . Gentleman be propose primary legislation , but with one line , no proper detail and no work up . we would be walk , ridiculously and recklessly , into the unknown if we be to adopt the Bill that be before we today . as a fan of the England cricket team , I be use to have a belief that something that be slightly rubbish will be able to achieve a lot more , but that be dwarf by the belief of the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) that 17 word will solve all the problem with the Scottish Government that have be list . perhaps my hon . friend could say a bit more about some of the work that need to go into solve those knotty problem . I plan to do so later in my speech , but my hon . friend be absolutely right . modification under section 30 of the Scotland Act 1998 — that is , Orders in Council — require Scottish , as well as UK , parliamentary approval . however , modification via primary legislation only require approval from both Houses of the UK Parliament . by take this approach , the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry be say that this be a matter entirely for this Parliament — this House and the other place — cut out his colleague in Holyrood . that be an interesting take on event , give that we already have a good relationship between Holyrood and Whitehall on many of the issue we be discuss today . the most significant and long - term change to the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament have be make by act of Parliament , rather than Orders in Council . that be also interesting ; we could have a long discussion about that , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I suspect that I would be try your patience if I start discuss the constitutional settlement for Scotland , so I will resist that temptation . however , the Scotland act 2012 and 2016 implement recommendation make by the Calman commission and the Smith commission respectively , so there have be change along the way . devolution be never intend to be a static thing ; it be intend to reward the competency , skill and need of our devolved body , but those body need to play properly and professionally , not engage in cheap political gimmick . I enormously respect the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry , but the flimsiness of this Bill suggest that it have not be properly think through . if the Bill be to omit some or all of paragraph b6 of part ii of schedule 5 to the Scotland Act 1998 , it would transfer responsibility for those matter to the Scottish Parliament . there be a really big issue here , which be why I believe we should not adopt the Bill . we have see how the different tax rate in Scotland can create challenge , for example with how the armed force be pay . the Ministry of Defence have a formula for different branch of the armed force , so someone on a tour in Scotland be pay more to take account of the tax rate . we can not have two member of our armed force personnel do the same job with the same title but earn differently . they be UK armed force . will the hon . member concede that the current situation in that regard be unacceptable ? there be many thousand of personnel work in my constituency who now pay less tax in Scotland ; if they get transfer to a base in England they pay more tax , but there be no mechanism in the other direction . it be completely discriminatory against the people of Scotland . dare I say it , on the hon . Gentleman ' s head be it . it be the Scottish Government who introduce the variation in taxation , which have leave a challenge for anybody work in a UK - wide public body or UK - wide company . I repeat that personnel who be do the same job on the same headline salary be end up pay different taxis because they be work in different jurisdiction . that have cause a big headache for the Ministry of Defence and have be quite complicated to deliver . that be just one example — we could go into other , but we be here to discuss immigration — of what happen if we heedlessly and recklessly dive into change something without proper preparation , thoughtful discussion and agreement . my hon . friend be expose the problem that we be try to raise this morning and this afternoon , although hopefully not this evening too . where change have be make to the constitutional settlement of the United Kingdom , it have happen over time , with lot of thoughtful , consider conversation before legislation have finally be pass . what we have today be a Bill with one substantive clause that seek to make a very large change to the constitutional settlement . we be be ask to trust the Committee process to come up with the specific . Madam Deputy Speaker , you will know the old phrase that a camel be a horse design by a committee . do my hon . friend agree that if we leave the specific to the Committee stage , we will end up with legislation that be bad for the United Kingdom and bad for Scotland ? absolutely . my hon . friend make the point clearly and powerfully . as he have highlight , there be other area that the Bill would affect ; it be not simply about set a new immigration policy . there be a raft of contradiction that could play out in the mechanic behind it , make life very chaotic . I will address that point in more detail later . when I be honour to serve as an Immigration Minister in her late Majesty ' s Government , we have a lot of discussion across the nation of the UK . I sometimes feel that I be the Minister send to the remotest part of the UK ; I make a lot of interesting visit to port . although the link between Stranraer or Cairnryan in Scotland and Larne in Northern Ireland be intra - UK , we have a very big challenge with illegal immigrant move between they . the role of the UK immigration service — now Border Force — be to ensure that that be manage . have a border at Scotland , with a different agency deal with thing , would mean an awful lot of cross - collaboration . it would make thing clunky and very complicated . for some time after the Labour Government leave office — it become a problem for the Conservative party in government — people would get on a coach at London Victoria station and go to the Republic of Ireland , sometimes to claim benefit . there be benefit fraud , there be immigration issue and increasingly there be issue around drug crime , which I know have be a problem for colleague in Northern Ireland . People on the coach would get a text message tell they whether there be more immigration officer and police at Stranraer or at Cairnryan , so they would get off at the one at which the few check be take place on the day . it be a very well - wear route . at the time , the route be manage by the police and Border Force — this be before Police Scotland be set up — but it be a very thinly stretch team . it be intelligence - lead by a UK - wide service , with support from the local force in Scotland . my hon . friend be describe in helpful detail what the Bill might lead to , with the mechanic of set up an entirely new immigration system in Scotland . give the issue with the performance of the Scottish National party that we have hear about , do she think it would be well for it to spend the record investment settlement that this Labour Government have give to Scotland on its broken education system , on build some housing and on help young people into job ? my hon . friend be right to again highlight the failure of the Scottish Government , which be one of the reason that people be not stay . we know that this be a challenge , and not just in Scotland . area of England have also be leave behind and have challenge in keep their young population . a lot of work be be do in place such as west Cumbria , where people who leave for university outside the area tend not to come back . an awful lot of work have be do there to try to hold on to those young people , so that they bring their family up there and the young population in those community do not reduce . there be example where this work be be do well , and there be example where it be still early day , but we need to acknowledge the problem . we can not gloss over it by say that a new immigration policy will solve everything . the Migration Advisory Committee have be raise a number of time . it be worth share one of the moment in the Home Office that be a screw - up . one of the challenge be that the Home Office be a Department of many part , and a panic come across my desk that there be a sudden rash of marriage between ukrainian woman — this be a long time before the tragic war in Ukraine and the illegal invasion by Putin — and scottish man . it trigger a bit of the Home Office to wonder whether fraud be go on . there be example of newspaper advertise for bride from other country , so it be not a frivolous concern of the Home Office . it turn out that the Migration Advisory Committee have listen to colleague in Scotland and act on what they be say . there be a severe shortage of fish filleter on the west coast of Scotland , so the Migration Advisory Committee have put it on the shortage occupation list for Scotland . it turn out that one of the many skill that ukrainian woman have be that many of they be very good fish filleter , so the word go round and they come and help the scottish economy . obviously it end up with a number of they settle and marry scottish man . [ interruption . ] I fear I may choke from an hon . friend ' s seat intervention ; I be a happily married woman . it be not a concern for I to look to our scottish colleague and see what the good of the picking be . [ laughter . ] this might be an opportunity for the hon . member to catch her breath . she be make a number of claim about ukrainian woman and scottish people , but I want to go back to something she say early about Stranraer and Cairnryan , which be a place I be familiar with as an irish person and a guide . I just want to correct the record : Stranraer port close many , many year ago . the example that you give be completely impossible . order . member should not use " you " . the hon . Member be tell off twice early for use it , and he come and apologise to the Chair . I would not have mention it , be I not be accurate in make clear for the record that he have be inappropriate with his language . unbelievable as it may seem to the hon . Gentleman , I be a Minister between 2007 and 2010 . I be a child Minister , of course . [ laughter . ] I can understand his confusion , but that be the case at the time , and it continue for some while , because I then deal with the local Member of Parliament — by then I be in opposition — about the challenge of that particular route . as he will know , the route from Scotland to Larne be the short route that can be take , so people would make that journey . I have do that journey and drive along the long and winding single - track route to get there . it be not somewhere to get stick behind a lorry , for sure . I be really demonstrate the point about the challenge of have multiple agency . it be difficult enough with one government , frankly . I spend over a decade on the Public Accounts Committee , look at the problem of Whitehall , and even within one government thing do not always go smoothly as different agency interact . to add an extra layer of complication seem to I something we would not want to see . the police at that time be overstretch , and move to Police Scotland do not help . that be not a criticism of that policy , although I know colleague have strong feeling about that , but it do not mean there be suddenly , magically , more police officer who could be deploy differently because of the challenge in that area . SNP Members talk about a period before Brexit that be ideal , and yet their proposal for this immigration system would increase the complexity at the border , include by create a land border , despite the complexity of deal with the island border that we already have . indeed . my hon . friend be not an MP when we be discuss Brexit , but oh my word , there be a lack of thought about the issue with the land border prior to that . Madam Deputy Speaker , you may recall that when the former Prime Minister , now Baroness May , be propose her Brexit deal , only 17 % of member of Parliament have be member of Parliament when the Northern Ireland agreement be sign , so there be a distinct lack of understanding in this place . we all expect and hope that Members will read into these issue , but often that get miss , and there be a distinct lack of understanding about the border . we do not want to go down that route again . as well as the concern around Brexit , there be the Gibraltar - Spain border , which we be still in the process of deal with , despite the previous Government . absolutely . a lot of tripe be talk at the time about have virtual border . even with some of the tension between Scotland and the UK , which be evident in what SNP Members say early , we be not , I hope , at the point where we would have watchtower and border guard with gun , but once we have a border , that be a risk . of course , there have previously be a border between England and Scotland : Hadrian ' s wall be build between 122 and 138 in the christian era , and the Antonine wall be build between 140 and 150 . there be a history of border — and I do not think any of we be there at the time — but none of we in this House want to see a return to that , do we ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . of course , there be another leader in this world who have talk about build a wall . I have a lot of time and respect for the hon . Lady , and she have contribute so much to the work of this House , but she have be simply absurd in some of her proclamation in the last few minute . all we be ask for be the opportunity to address some of our workforce issue , because we have a real crisis in Scotland . we have a distinct and separate tax code in Scotland . there would be a requirement that a person come here would live and work in Scotland , which could be easily assess and monitor because of our individual tax code . it be straightforward and simple . watchtower and border guard ? come on ! the hon . Lady be 10 time well than that . if the cap fit , maybe the hon . Gentleman should consider his position . I be not suggest for a minute that we would see border guard and tower , but once there be a land border there be a risk . we have see in other part of the world and among ally of our more recently quite intemperate discussion about border , wall and security . we would not want to go down that route . I have the same respect for the hon . member and her service , and she usually talk an awful lot of sense , but right now she be speak of the isolationism that I would expect to hear from the Conservative or Reform Benches . border have be take down in the single market and the custom union . in Northern Ireland , they have not need a border . my hon . friend the Member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) be quite right . I ask she to temper her language and talk about this sensibly . she speak about the disaster of Brexit . as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , it be important that we have debate in this place . People have make point to I and I be simply respond to those point . as I say , I be not suggest that we would want , or would see , watchtower with armed guard , and in my area of the country we have the second - large anti - brexit vote , so I know where I and my constituent stand on that issue . however , we do not want to add extra border where we do not need to . we all benefit from my hon . friend ' s long experience in the House . she be around during the discussion after the referendum in 2016 . do she recall that a Division on remain in the custom union be lose by six vote when all 48 SNP MPs abstain ? my hon . friend make the point . the issue be not necessarily about have a border between Northern Ireland and southern Ireland ; a border have in effect be put in the irish sea by the Windsor framework . however , the SNP appear to be call for a border between Scotland and England , without Scotland re - enter the European Union , leave Scotland completely isolate . SNP Members talk about the UK ' s delusion of grandeur — about we sit on a few small island and consider ourselves great — but they want to restrict the life of scot to only a part of that island . my hon . friend make the point well . we could reopen the whole debate about the Windsor framework , the border in the Irish sea and the many challenge to do with that , but I will not try your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker . when I be Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , we look a lot at the detail of that , include the cost and the complication . rise — I give way to a former member of the Committee , who look at those detail , too . I remember fondly my time on the Public Accounts Committee under my hon . friend ' s chairmanship . a lot of the time , we be look at duplication in Government agency that cause bureaucracy , waste money , and make thing take long . under the Bill , there would be wholesale devolution of immigration and asylum policy to the Scottish Government . that would require UK Border Force , which carry out immigration check for external port , and custom check , to be separate into two in Scotland . there would be one version for UK - wide custom check , and presumably one for external immigration check . do she , with her long experience on the Public Accounts Committee , have any insight into how much that would cost , what delay there would be , what sort of additional burden would be place on taxpayer in Scotland and the United Kingdom , and what damage that would do to business and travel ? certainly , it would not be cost - free . it would be a big burden on taxpayer across the UK , whichever tax system they be in . the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire talk about use a tax code as a marker of whether people have move . have he not hear of work from home , or work on holiday ? that be a trend that I have read about . People can be work for an employer in one country but live somewhere else . it can get very messy , and those complication be not deal with by this one - sentence Bill . I be particularly concerned about the idea of tie everything to a certain tax code . anyone who have deal with modern slavery know that the more a visa be tie to a place or employer , the few right the person with the visa have , and the more likely they be to be exploit . the tax code example have a whole load of unintended consequence , none of which be consider in the 17 - word Bill . my hon . friend take the word out of my mouth ; he say it well than I could . let I turn for a moment to what the SNP - lead Scottish Government wish to deliver . in 2020 — I think this be refer to — they publish a paper arguing for some devolution of immigration policy to Scotland . I remember well before then , when I be a Minister , have discussion about that and — I would not normally be so crass — slap down the idea that there could be a separate immigration policy for Scotland . the paper argue that Scotland be more reliant on migration than other part of the UK , and note that the population of Scotland would be fall if it be not for migration from the rest of the UK and overseas . an Opposition day debate on a motion condemn the UK Government ' s response to that paper take place on 11 February 2020 . at the time , Brexit be widely expect , and the Scottish Government ' s expert advisory group discuss a possible fall in net migration to Scotland of between 30 % and 50 % , but so far the opposite have happen , as it have in the rest of the UK . net international migration to Scotland in 2022 - 23 be an estimate 48 , 000 , accord to the most recent figure from National Records of Scotland . that be about four time the pre - pandemic average of 12 , 000 . in January 2025 , the Scottish Government say that the recent increase in net migration to Scotland could be largely explain by international student , but might not be sustain when restriction introduce by the last Government feed through . there be an important point there about the education system . we have see the scottish Government introduce free tuition . that sound like an absolutely wonderful policy , and a lot of people lobby for it , but the reality be that it squeeze the funding of our high education institution , so that they have no option but to find overseas student who will pay more . we have see an element of that in England , but the problem be exacerbate in Scotland because of the proposal of the Scottish Government . the hon . Lady must be horrify by the Scottish Labour party and its backing of free tuition . I have absolute confidence and faith that my Scottish Labour colleague will have do the math , will know where the money will come from , and will have look at the matter in the round , and will be more willing to work with whitehall on these issue . we will no doubt discuss with the Secretary of State for Scotland , the Home Secretary and other in Government , as necessary , how they will ensure that everything match up , because that be right . scottish Labour will invest in young people — something that the SNP have a woeful record on . that investment include put people through the right skilled route , so that we have the skill that be need in Scotland . my point be that under the SNP , the Scottish Government have this immigration policy that they have promote hard , but they have never deal with its consequence . a new government — a new broom come in next May in Scotland — who understand these issue , be able and willing to get their head around how to tackle they , and be willing to work with Government in Whitehall , will deliver for the young people of Scotland and for the scottish economy . if this Bill pass , do my hon . friend imagine that the talk of make it hard for people to get between England and Scotland would have a beneficial or negative impact on growth prospect in Scotland ? do she imagine that there would be an impact on investment in public service in Scotland ? that be exactly the point . the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry put great faith in Committee stage . I have be here a long time , and they be not always as good as people say that they will be . even if there be a Committee stage , there be so many other element . that be one of the challenge with a Bill that be simply one line long . there be issue and knock - on effect for not just the Home Office , but all the other cross - uk institution . I spend more than a decade on the Public Accounts Committee , and I know that if we pull a lever somewhere in Whitehall , unintended consequence flow into place we would never have think of . the skill in government be to try to work that out , and a Bill like this would not deliver that necessary join - up approach . I be strike particularly by what my hon . Friend say about the impact be feel elsewhere in Whitehall when a lever be move . I give the example of a friend of mine , who be a doctor work in a depopulated part of Cumbria for part of the month and in Orkney for another part of the month . how would we organise the visa that enable she to serve the population in Orkney ? would she need a visa to operate in west Cumbria or , indeed , in both place ? those problem that can not be solve by a one - line Bill . we need to be serious about the fact that we need an overall immigration policy , rather than one entirely design by and for Scotland . my hon . friend have hit the nail on the head . I absolutely take what the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry highlight . as I say , there be really challenging issue with the demographic in the scottish population . we all need to put our shoulder to the wheel to deal with those thing , rather than say , " if only the SNP Scottish Government be in charge of immigration , it would all be fine . " this Bill be a gimmick , and the hon . Gentleman know that it will not work . I will touch on the high education figure . in the last two year , we have see the number of home scottish student drop . in 2021 - 22 , the figure be just over 183 , 000 , and it have drop to just shy of 174 , 000 . the number of non - UK student have go down in the past couple of year , but it be nevertheless a significant number at 73 , 915 . the Government be not against foreign student come here — that be important — but we need to strike a balance , so that there be enough place for the young people in Scotland and across the UK who want to attend scottish university , and who be perhaps be squeeze out by the imbalance and the cost of go . my hon . friend talk eloquently about how student would be affect if the Bill be pass . it be also important that academic staff can move fluidly between institution , but that movement should be manage nationally , not locally or regionally . do she agree ? my hon . friend be right . we have see the pain and challenge cause by Brexit for academic movement . Knowledge have no boundary or border , but there be a danger of the Bill not recognise that . let I turn to the Scottish National party ' s proposal for a scottish graduate visa . overseas student in the UK can get a two - year graduate visa . that be an extension available to those who complete their degree in the UK , allow they to stay on and work without sponsorship for two year — or three if they be phd graduate . the SNP Scottish Government have propose an additional scottish graduate visa that would be available to those on UK graduate visa . it would allow they to stay for another two year . applicant would need to have graduate from a scottish institution — we have already see an interesting divide on that — to have live in Scotland for an " appropriate amount of time " , and would have to intend to live and work in Scotland . the visa would be link to a scottish tax code , which we have hear a lot about today . there be a discussion to be have in this place about how to retain graduate in the UK , so that they can contribute to our economy , but we have a national economy and a national supply chain , particularly in our defence industry , which be so important to Scotland . if , under such a visa , someone could live and work only in Scotland , or must have graduate from a scottish institution , it would cause a disproportionate split between the rest of the UK and Scotland when it come to highly skilled and high - value job , and there would be a problem in how that knowledge be transfer around the rest of the country . as ever , my hon . friend talk enormous sense . let we talk through the practicality of the proposal that I have just outline . a person graduate from a scottish university would be able to stay on and work in Scotland without sponsorship for four year in total . to remind the House , that mean two year on a UK graduate visa — or three for a phd — follow by two year on a scottish graduate visa . rise — or an Isle of Wight visa ! I give way . an Isle of Wight visa indeed . my hon . friend be be generous with her time . do she agree that this very short , 17 - word Bill clearly create more problem than it will solve ? I hope that I be begin to explain how some of these interaction — [ Laughter . ] I be only just begin . [ hon . member : " More ! " ] I fear I might be cut off , which be a great shame , because I have really look forward to go into this in more detail . if the person complete undergraduate and postgraduate in Scotland , they would qualify for permanent residence simply by have be in the country . we might want to support that , but we ought to debate , it rather than sleepwalk into the challenge of have two system set up for different purpose . that would be confusing for the individual and for the business employ they , as they might not know whether visa be need . it would be very complicated . on the tax code , I have spend quite a lot of time consider how our tax system work , and every time a Chancellor of any party stand up at the Dispatch Box to announce something , it add complexity to the tax system , which can be very confusing for people . one of the last thing that we want to do in the previous Labour Government , but which be too complicated to deliver in time , be codify all immigration law into one Bill — but , boy , be that a big task . it be the sort of thing that a Government would need to start at the beginning of a 15 - year Government . perhaps I should suggest it to the Home Secretary , because I be sure that this Government have the prospect of see it through . People come to my constituency surgery — and to those of many other member , I be sure — to ask for information about their immigration status . they could not possibly work through the system on their own without professional advice , which be costly . that be discriminatory , really . they find it very difficult . the more complication we add , the hard it will be . my hon . friend , by talk about the minutia , be do a fantastic job of show the vast complexity of one aspect of the SNP try to cut off the connection between Scotland and the rest of the UK . do she accept that this be an existential problem for the SNP ? every time they make an argument about the damage cause by lose the integration with the European Union , the infinitely great combination of interaction between Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom show that this would be infinitely more damaging to the life of scot . this Bill be a fantastic example — the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 11 July . business without Debate Plant Protection Products ( prohibition on Public Sector Use ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 October . meat ( information about Method of Killing ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . theft of Tools of Trade ( Sentencing ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 4 July . ceramic ( Country of Origin Marking ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . Pension ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . exemption from Value Added Tax ( list place of worship ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . exemption from Value Added Tax ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . Caravan Site Licensing ( Exemptions of Motor Homes ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . arm ' s - Length Bodies ( Review ) Bill Further to the Deputy Speaker ' s statement on 28 March , in column 1298 of the Official Report , Mr Speaker have direct that the proceeding entitle the Arm ' s - Length Bodies ( accountability to Parliament ) Bill on 14 March should be consider void and this should be reflect in the Journal . that title , and associate text , be substitute in error for the Arm ' s - Length Bodies ( Review ) Bill . as the House have be notify , the Arm ' s - Length Bodies ( Review ) Bill have not be correctly print at that time , which be a requirement under Standing Order no . 14 ( 3 ) . the order for second Reading therefore lapse at the rise of the House on 13 March . once the Bill have be print and make available in the Vote Office , notice could be give appoint the next available private member ' Bill Friday for Second Reading and so all subsequent proceeding , include on 28 March and today , be unaffected . motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . Statutory Instruments Act 1946 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . dangerous Dogs Act 1991 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . Domestic Energy ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . BBC Licence Fee Non - Payment ( decriminalisation for over - 75 ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . Quantitative Easing ( prohibition ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . pet ( Microchips ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . Anonymity of Suspects Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . child ' s Clothing ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . British Broadcasting Corporation ( Privatisation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . Vaccine Damage Payments Act ( Review ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . Terminal Illness ( Relief of Pain ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . Mobile Homes Act 1983 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . arm ' s - Length Bodies ( accountability to Parliament ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . well , Mr Chope , that have probably give you all the exercise you need . Wickford Town Centre Regeneration Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Kate Dearden . ) I be grateful to have be give this opportunity to raise a number of important issue that be of considerable concern to my constituent in the town of Wickford , and in particular the future of the old Co - op supermarket site in the centre of the town . I be personally grateful to the Minister for be here on a Friday afternoon to respond to the debate when no doubt he also have constituency demand on his diary , so I thank he . perhaps I could begin on a sombre note by pay tribute to the late Councillor David Harrison , who pass away only recently . David Harrison have represent Wickford on Basildon borough council for many year and have give decade of his life to public service in the town of Wickford , which he clearly love . he also serve very successfully as the mayor of Basildon borough . he will be much miss by people of all party , and I pay tribute in the House to his service and offer my condolence as the town ' s MP to his widow , Linda , and her wide family at this extremely difficult time . for context , I point out to the Minister that Wickford have be through a rather challenging time in recent year , especially since the covid pandemic . we have see a number of bank and several other retail outlet close on the high street , which have contribute to a decrease in footfall . I recently visit the nationwide branch in Wickford to congratulate it on remain open , and on its wide corporate commitment not to close any high street branch across the country until 2028 at the early . I understand that will roll on , year by year . incidentally , I also visit the nationwide branch in Rayleigh a little over a week ago for much the same reason and to celebrate it reopen once again on a Thursday to revert to a five - day - a - week service , so well do nationwide . nevertheless , we also lose our police station in Wickford several year ago , and that have be board up ever since . Basildon borough council originally intend to replace it with flat , but it now have an alternative proposal to redevelop it as a community safety hub . we look forward to further detail , include what the opening hour will be . to add to that , Greater Anglia , which operate the train line from Southend through Wickford into Liverpool Street , demolish a large part of Wickford station several year ago to extend the platform to accommodate the new class 720 train . I be pleased to report that the 720 have prove considerably more reliable than their rather elderly predecessor . nevertheless , it have take Greater Anglia several year to confirm plan to rebuild the station . I personally lobby Ministers at the Department for Transport , under the previous Conservative Government , to come up with the multimillion - pound funding necessary to rebuild the station and , in a bipartisan spirit , I be pleased to report this afternoon that Greater Anglia have recently sign a contract with Walker Construction . the rebuild of the station will now commence this summer and should be complete by the end of 2026 at the late , and hopefully a little early , weather depend . in addition to the rebuild , which I believe will be very popular with my constituent , there be further good news : McDonald ' s have recently acquire the old unoccupied Prezzo restaurant in Wickford High Street and be now refurbish it to provide a brand new McDonald ' s , due to open this summer . I suspect that will also prove popular with my constituent . crucially , that should increase footfall on the high street and will be welcome by local trader , even if that provide competition to other restaurant in the town . moreover , local business in the town centre recently vote to form a new business improvement district in order to pool their effort , in collaboration with the borough and town council , to help revive economic activity in the town . as the local MP , I attend some of the preliminary meeting in this process , and I wish the newly create BID all the good for the future . my main purpose in this debate be to talk about the economic regeneration of Wickford , but give that Labour - lead Basildon borough council release its regulation 18 draft local plan a few month ago , it would be remiss of I not to take the opportunity to point out to the Minister that I be strongly opposed to the council ' s proposal to try to cram 27 , 000 new dwelling into the borough by 2043 , include some 4 , 200 in and around Wickford itself . the local infrastructure in the borough simply can not accommodate mass house building on this scale . I appreciate that we do need some new house in the borough — young people can not be expect to live at home with their parent forever . none the less , we simply do not have the infrastructure , particularly the road infrastructure and medical facility , to accommodate mass concrete over the green belt on this scale . in particular , there be no firm proposal whatsoever to expand Basildon district general hospital , which be at the heart of the Basildon borough . accord to the NHS ' s own standard metric , it work on the basis of 2 . 4 prospective additional patient per household , which would mean pro rata almost 65 , 000 potential patient at the hospital , which be massively oversubscribed as it be . accord to the hospital trust ' s management , even before so - call winter pressure kick in , the hospital be normally run a bed occupancy rate of between 98 % and 99 % . the borough council ' s response have be completely unconvincing , frankly . it simply palm off all responsibility for plan to expand the hospital on to the integrate commissioning board , which itself be now in the course of a major reorganisation . have check personally with the leadership of the current Mid and South Essex ICB , I can report that it have never be consult by the council on any plan to expand Basildon hospital . indeed , when the council publish a supplementary document to the local plan , specifically regard healthcare infrastructure , even then there be no clear proposal whatsoever to expand the hospital . I believe that the plan should be find unsound on that one key point alone , so I hope the Minister will understand why I wish to get my concern firmly on the record . have do that , I will now turn to an area of great concern for my Wickford constituent : the fate of the old Co - op supermarket site in the centre of the town , just behind the high street . there be a long - run and complicated saga , of which I have give the Minister at least some notice , so rather than try his patience by attempt to go through every detail , I will try to summarise the background . several year ago , the Co - op close its supermarket at this site . in addition , some two year ago , Aldi , which operate the other main supermarket in the town , demolish its store in order to build a large , modernise one . the net effect be that for much of 2023 there be a perfect storm in term of the lack of supermarket provision in Wickford , other than a small Iceland store on the high street . this mean that my constituent often have to travel some distance to do their weekly shop , a particular challenge for those who be elderly or do not have access to their own car , or both . I be pleased to tell the Minister that I subsequently reopen the newly reconstructed and indeed enlarge Aldi supermarket in November 2023 , and it now appear to be do a brisk trade . nevertheless , this leave the outstanding question of what will happen to the old Co - op site , which be currently in a state of poor repair and be board up . give other recent development in Wickford , which have lead to a diminution in car parking space across the town , the car park adjacent to the Co - op site now effectively act as the main car park for the town itself , yet a considerable number of those place be currently unavailable because of the hoarding that surround the dilapidated Co - op site — I can see the Minister nodding , so he clearly follow my argument , for which I be grateful . several year ago , the Co - op site be acquire by a company call Heriot , a South African - base developer that seek to redevelop a supermarket on the site . its first attempt be to agree an arrangement with morrison that would have lead — eventually — to a brand - new supermarket , incorporate an underground car park and up to 137 flat above the store , some up to seven storey high . I have to tell the Minister that I be never really convinced of the viability of those proposal , especially give the high cost of develop underground car park post covid , and the plan be generally quite unpopular across the town , too . the plan fall through , partly I think because of some of the financial challenge that morrison have be experience as a supermarket chain , which be well document in the press . Heriot then enter into negotiation on an alternative scheme with Asda , which I shall refer to in more detail in a moment . for its part , Basildon borough council , understandably become impatient at the lack of a planning application from Heriot , threaten to issue a section 215 notice compelling Heriot to clean up the site and ultimately to demolish the old supermarket , as it be become a considerable eyesore — it still be . in response , and after a couple of year of preparation , Heriot finally submit a formal planning application to Basildon borough council in February 2025 , base on a revise scheme for a brand - new supermarket with no underground parking and a reduce number of flat , with three storey of accommodation above the store as oppose to seven . my understanding be that this planning application be extant and be due to be determine by the borough council ' s planning committee , hopefully by the end of May — next month . I know that the Minister will be reluctant to comment on the merit of the planning application , not least because of his quasi - judicial position in the event of a potential appeal . I hope , however , that he will at least be prepared to acknowledge that , after a number of year with a blighted , derelict supermarket , it would certainly be to the advantage of the town if the borough council be minded to pass the application in a timely manner . in short , as he be the Minister for Local Growth , I would suggest to he that if the Government be so committed to grow business , this scheme should appeal to they . that bring I on to the new proposal with Asda . as I be sure the Minister be aware , Asda have be through considerable financial difficulty of its own , follow its sale by Walmart , and the company be now load with a considerable amount of debt . as a result , its former chief executive Allan Leighton , a man with a rightly strong reputation in the retail industry , have take over as executive chairman and be attempt to turn the company around — although he be on record as say that this might take some time . despite Asda ' s reluctance to comment publicly on its negotiation with Heriot , I have to tell the Minister that it be , in effect , an open secret across the whole of Wickford that Asda and Heriot have be work on a new scheme , the design of which be already reflect in the planning application that I have just mention . indeed , I can tell the Minister that , even when I be out canvass in Wickford nearly a year ago at the general election , multiple constituent raise with I where the Asda scheme have get to . if it drag on much long , there be a real risk that Asda will suffer serious reputational damage as a company that struggle to make a decision . specifically , I understand that the propose scheme have be defer several time from consideration by the Asda board and indeed be mean to be discuss at an Asda board meeting last week , only to be defer yet again . I find this extremely disappointing , because — give the background that I have outline , which I hope the Minister can appreciate — my constituent be now thoroughly feed up with what one might call , to use a military term , the paralysis by analysis that Asda have show over all of this . I attend Wickford town council ' s annual town meeting just last night , where this matter be a topic of considerable discussion among the 40 or so resident present . the general view of the audience be that Asda seem completely incapable of make a decision either one way or another . as someone who be there say , I can say that it be not exactly Asda ' s fine hour . for my own part as the local MP , I must confess that I have find Asda an extremely difficult company to deal with as it be generally very uncommunicative . I understand that one of Mr Leighton ' s inherit challenge be poor industrial relation between Asda ' s management and the staff in its store ; if it communicate with its staff in the way that it communicate with mp , I be not surprised . for the record , Asda already have a successful store in my constituency in Rayleigh , which be often very busy , especially at the weekend , and , prior to the 2010 boundary change , when South Woodham Ferrers be part of my constituency , it also have a very successful store there . I be not against Asda as a company per se , but the way in which it have treat both I as a Member of Parliament and , far more importantly , my constituent leave a very great deal to be desire . as the Minister can probably tell , I be now completely exasperate by the total inability of Asda to make a decision either one way or another . accordingly , yesterday I write to Allan Leighton , the executive chairman , and have ask for a personal meeting with he in order to try and explain to he some of the background that I have seek to lay out in this Adjournment debate , and then to try to elicit a final decision from he and his company either one way or another . we can not go on with this endless prevarication by one of the nation ' s large supermarket group . in truth , I suspect that Mr Leighton have never even hear of Wickford before yesterday ; well , he have now . to summarise , I be pleased that Greater Anglia have finally let the contract to rebuild Wickford station , which will commence this summer and conclude by the end of next year , and that McDonald ' s be now convert the old Prezzo restaurant to open this summer , which I be sure will materially help to increase footfall on the high street . but we still have the major outstanding issue of what will happen to the old Co - op supermarket site . I very much hope that Labour - lead Basildon borough council will agree to pass Heriot ' s planning application — ideally next month — not least as Basildon council ' s deputy leader , Councillor Adele Brown , tell the town council annual meeting last night , while I be there , that it be now intend to support the application . that would represent a major multimillion - pound investment into Wickford and the borough . finally , give that it be an open secret across the whole of Wickford that Asda have be talk to the developer for over a year now , the time really have come for Asda to make its mind up either one way or another . I very much hope it will , which be why I have ask to meet personally with its executive chairman , Allan Leighton , to try to obtain formal confirmation of this . the time for hesitation have pass ; I hope Asda will proceed and that my constituent can have a supermarket in Wickford that be fit for the 21st century . I congratulate the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) on secure this important debate , which of course come on the heel of the debate on Wickford station in March . he set out an excellent case , but before I reflect on that I would like to associate myself with his remark about Councillor David Harrison . I do not know he , but the right hon . Gentleman ' s tribute clearly show what a passionate , effective and deeply caring man David Harrison be for the town of Wickford . I offer my condolence to his widow and family ; I hope they can take some comfort from what the right hon . Gentleman say and from the fact that David Harrison ' s name will now be carry on the record in this place for as long as this democracy stand . I think that be a very meaningful and proper tribute to he . the right hon . Gentleman set out a passionate case for regeneration of the town centre . by definition , right hon . and hon . member sit on different side of this Chamber because we often have different view and different analysis of share problem , but one thing that unite we be our frustration at the decline of town centre and the passion to do something about it . as a former charter surveyor , with 30 year in commercial property before enter this place , I congratulate the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) on the very proactive approach he be take in speak to the numerous stakeholder . I think that be exactly the correct approach in such a situation . I totally agree — one thing that I write down as the right hon . Gentleman be speak be that I would not want to be Asda in this case . Asda do excellent work in Nottingham , but if it think that the right hon . Gentleman will go away quietly or be distract by other thing , it be very mistaken . he have a long career of show that he will persist until eventually he get what his constituent need , but — exactly as my hon . Friend say — that require we to be in the room to have those conversation . I hope that Asda lean into that , because that will be very important indeed . the conversation about town centre be one that we be have across the country . as a government , we want to see growth in every corner of the UK — that be at the heart of our plan for change . we want that economic growth to raise living standard , and we want to support place to deliver the change they need . that be an important message from this Dispatch Box , because we believe we have a really important role to play in the improvement of town centre , but equally profoundly , we have a responsibility to get the tool and resource out from this place into those community . as much as I want to match the right hon . Gentleman ' s energy and will seek to work with he in any way I can , I believe that those 40 people who come to the town council meeting last night be the expert . they ought to be give the tool and resource to make sure they can do the job , and that be very much my role as Minister , as well as do what we can alongside that . that be a pretty clear theme that run through our devolution agenda . we be deliver the big ever transfer of power from this place to the region . we have set out in the " English Devolution " White Paper how we think mayor can drive growth in their area , equip with integrate funding settlement and a range of new power across planning , housing , transport and skill , all of which have be a part of this debate . of course , Greater Essex be one of the six area that be announce by the Deputy Prime Minister on 5 February as member of the devolution priority programme , so this be something that be very much come to Essex . it be important that those power and responsibility exist at that level — that will lead to Greater Essex be part of the Council of the Nations and Regions , as well — but it be important that power be hold locally , too . I be really pleased to hear what the right hon . Gentleman say about the establishment of the business improvement district ; I be also the Minister for bid , and I be passionate about the impact they can have . if there be a useful moment for I to meet and speak with that BID , I would be very keen to do so . I take every opportunity to talk to business improvement district , because their insight about challenge and opportunity — as one would expect and hope — very much inform the work that we be try to do . as I have say , we want to put tool into local community ' hand . build on the work of the previous Government , we be very pleased to have commence high street rental auction in this Parliament . the right hon . Gentleman talk about long - term vacant site and the harm that individual vacant site can do . we all have they in our own community — they really bring down the place . the reality be that vacancy be rot for the vitality of high street . it become a self - defeat cycle of further vacancy , increase crime and antisocial behaviour , a loss of identity , a loss of hope , and a loss of the belief that thing can get well . vacancy be rot , and it must be tackle . there be good short - term measure that can be take . I be really pleased to hear that the right hon . Gentleman ' s council be willing to use section 215 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 , but high street rental auction be a good addition to those measure , compelling owner not just to clean up site but to use they usefully . these be new power that enable local authority to require landlord to rent out persistently vacant commercial unit , which will help to bring business back to the high street and drive growth across the country . they give local leader the power to auction the lease of commercial property that have be vacant for more than a year , provide business and community group with the right to rent and give local people the ability to shape and improve their high street . all local authority , include Basildon borough council , be able to use these power , and some resource be available to support they in do so . I encourage all local authority to reach out to we , because we be work with early adopter , but we want everybody to have access to those power . we have a lot of insight already , and we would be very keen to have that conversation with any local authority . we will build on that by introduce a community right to buy , as be set out in our manifesto . that will give community the ability to acquire asset of community value and not have that sense of the inexorable loss of much value institution . as I say , this be about the shift of power to local community , but it be also about national Government do their job . in particular , I would like to talk about banking hub . the right hon . Gentleman have previously mention banking challenge in his community and I think it be a challenge that many right hon . and hon . member have . I be really pleased to hear what he say about Nationwide . if I be go to be a bit cheeky , I might say that there be a value in the building society model ; a certain ethos and community mindedness be clearly play out there . on top of that , we be work very closely with bank to roll out 350 banking hub to ensure critical cash and banking service , and face - to - face support . I know that that be important in Wickford ; it be also important in Nottingham and Kimberley in my community . if and when I get the chance to meet the Wickford business improvement district , I know that it will talk about business rate . they be a significant overhead and a real challenge . through our reform , we will create a fair system that protect the high street and support investment . the recently enact Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Act 2025 enable the introduction of permanently low tax rate for retail , hospitality and leisure from April 2026 . that be a permanent tax cut that will ensure those sector can benefit and grow . in addition , we know that have a really good licensing regime be very important , but it can also be a barrier . early this month , the Chancellor and the Deputy Prime Minister announce their licensing taskforce to see what we can do to remove some of the barrier to growth in the hospitality sector and the wide night - time economy . there will be more to say on that and other issue affect business and high street in our forthcoming small business strategy . the right hon . Gentleman mention planning and transport , so I want to pick up on both those thread before I close . again , it be really important that they be locally shape . for local transport plan in particular , local authority and local community be the expert , and they should have the power to set and shape . we want to give they great tool and we want to give parker great tool . we will shortly announce our plan for a new code of practice on parking , as set out in the Parking ( Code of Practice ) Act 2019 . I be really pleased to hear about the success of the station . for many people who visit Wickford , it will be the very first thing they see , so it should be a quality offering that show the quality of the town . on local plan , the right hon . Gentleman tempt I a little bit . I be conscious that there be a consultation opening in the autumn . I know that he and his constituent will make their view very clear , as they should . the key thing for we as a Government be that , yes , we know we have set a significant target of 1 . 5 million house in this Parliament . we know that that have to be locally deliver . we know that that involve a planning number , but the agency within that should still be a local one . that be why local plan be so important . it be why Basildon have one be so important and why the consultation later this year will be so very important as well . on one level , I be loath to intervene on the hon . Gentleman , because he be be so charming and I do not want to spoil the moment . just to place it on the record , on devolution , I do not quite see it the way that he and the Government do . none the less , he have be very helpful . we have a very active town council in Wickford and we have a very active BID . I will pass on his very kind offer to visit the BID . perhaps he could come after — hopefully — we have celebrate the news that Asda will go ahead . be that a fair deal ? that seem an excellent deal and one that I will absolutely take . on devolution — if only we could go for an hour on that — I have follow a little bit what the right hon . Gentleman have say previously . I think that perhaps there might be a distinction between the Government ' s plan with regard to devolution and with regard to local government reorganisation , because they be similar thing but not the same thing . I would hope that the shift of power and resource to Greater Essex be a welcome thing , but I appreciate that he will make his view strongly on local government reorganisation between now and the autumn , when decision will be make . to conclude , the right hon . Gentleman make a very strong case and it be clear that he be go to give that leadership to his community . we want to see his community have the power and resource to shape the place themselves , so that they can do their bit . we will do our bit , too , all with the common goal of improve Wickford town centre and town centre across the country . question put and agree to . House adjourn .