Oral Answers to Questions Women and Equalities the Minister for Women and Equalities be ask — Impact of Energy Costs on disabled People what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of the cost of energy on disabled people . we understand that energy bill be a concern for many people . we believe that the only way to protect bill payer permanently , include disabled people , be to accelerate the green transition to home - grow clean energy . we continue to work closely with energy supplier to ensure that vulnerable customer be support . in my constituency of Carshalton and Wallington , Scope research estimate that disabled household face bill of up to £ 1 , 500 a month more than the average household . we also know that disabled household be much less likely to claim the benefit that they be entitle to . have the Government Equalities Office make any assessment of the potential disproportion - ate impact on disabled household of cut the winter fuel allowance ? equality analysis be release in September , and the Government carry out our statutory duty in do so , but I recognise the wide concern that the hon . member raise , especially around the additional cost face by many disabled people . that be why the Minister for Energy Consumers , my hon . friend the Member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) recently meet supplier to address some of these issue . I encourage all those who need extra support to sign up to the priority service register . disabled people be also concerned about the use of artificial intelligence in Departments under the previous Government , include within the Department for Work and Pensions . give the recent United Nations report on AI governance , what discussion have the Minister have with other colleague across different department on the equity principle that will be integrate in the Government ' s use of AI ? discussion be ongoing across government , include with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology . there be wide opportunity and challenge that technology present we , and we want to ensure we get the balance right . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . far to the question that my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) ask , DWP statistic show that 45 % of people over the state pension age have a disability . as we have already hear , they can face hugely inflate energy cost because of the need for equipment such as stair lift , extra fridge or oxygen tank , all of which demand electricity . in the discussion that the Minister have outline , have the Government give any consideration to the introduction of a social tariff to help mitigate the extra cost that disable people face in this country ? the hon . Lady will recognise the difficult state of the public finance that we inherit and the tough choice that be necessary to stabilise our economy . those decision be not easy . my hon . friend the Minister for Energy Consumers be lead on much of this work to ensure we secure a fair deal for all consumer , because we want to ensure that all support be target at the most vulnerable group who need support this winter . violence against Women and girl what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . what discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for the Home Department on violence against woman and girl . what discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for the Home Department on violence against woman and girl . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . my colleague and I be work closely together to tackle the national emergency of violence against woman and girl and to deliver our mission to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . we have begin our work to make street , home and workplace safe for woman by announce that domestic abuse specialist will be place in emergency control room and that adult victim of rape in England and Wales will get access to free legal advocate . I , like many mother , have to bring up my daughter to be cautious of man and their motive , language and behaviour . sadly , many of our daughter still have to learn the hard way , with one of mine take year to recover from the assault she experience as a schoolchild . misogynistic attitude and behaviour be often learn , tolerate and reinforce while in school . in recent time , social medium influencer be drive that , embed woman hatred into our culture . how be the Government tackle this rise challenge in school , and will that be embed into the curriculum across all age ? I completely agree with my hon . friend that misogyny must be tackle , and I know the whole House will want to say how deeply concerned we be to hear about her daughter ' s experience . it be clear that statutory relationship , sex and health education be essential to tackle misogyny . there must be clear guidance on teach it , which be why we be carefully consider consultation response and evidence to ensure that new guidance meet the need of student and teacher . the independent curriculum and assessment review will carefully consider how RSHE fit in with the wide curriculum as part of its work . we must tackle misogyny from the start . that mean in school , online and across society . give the recent high - profile allegation of appalling abuse that many woman suffer in their — [ interruption . ] order . please , the Member be ask a question . you should not walk in front of she . give the recent high profile allegation of appalling abuse of woman in their workplace that have be all over the news , what step be the Government plan to protect woman who come forward with allegation of such abuse in future , particularly in the workplace ? I be grateful to the hon . member for ask that incredibly important question . many of we have be deeply concerned by some of the story that have come to public light . we be determine as a new Government to strengthen the legal duty around sexual harassment so that employer take all reasonable step to stop it before it start . we will also require employer to create and maintain workplace and working condition free from harassment , include by third party . my predecessor Greg Clark bring a Bill before the House to make it illegal to harass woman in public . the protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Bill receive Royal Assent in September last year , but the Act be not in force because the Secretary of State need to pass a statutory instrument to make regulation to allow that to happen ; it be legal plumbing . will the Minister undertake to write to I and update I when that work will be do and when this important Act will come into force ? I be happy to write to the hon . member when the Act do indeed come into force . to be absolutely clear , the new Government be determined to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade , which include on the street as well as in workplace and home . I know that the Home Secretary take that incredibly seriously , so she be work with we on it . woman welcome this government finally implement buffer zone around abortion clinic , as repeatedly vote for by mps in the House . will the Minister tell I when that will happen and whether it will apply to those who , knowingly or not , silently intimidate at the clinic gate ? the Tories be try to scrap that bit on the sly . I thank my hon . friend for her important question . I pay tribute to she , the Home Secretary and the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention along with other across the House who have campaign on this issue for year . the new Government have be able finally to take urgent step to address this issue . protection zone around abortion clinic will be in force from 31 October — the end of this month . the Government be determined that anyone exercise their legal right to access abortion service should be free from harassment and intimidation . the police will now have the power to deal with anyone they reasonably suspect to be obstruct , cause harassment or distress , or influence within a buffer zone . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the ministerial team to their place . the Conservative Government launch the £ 100 million violence against woman and girl strategy in our determination to make our street safe for woman and girl . it involve create a new 24 / 7 sexual assault helpline , transport safety champion and a £ 5 million safety of woman at night fund . why do this Labour Government feel that set a target of merely halve violence against woman and girl be a suitable ambition ? surely nothing but target the total eradication of this horrific criminality , whether in the home or on the street , be enough . the reality be that we see report rate of different form of violence against woman and girl rise repeatedly under the previous Government , and charge rate fall shamefully low . the Government will not stand by in the face of that national emergency . we will act . that be why we have set a cross - Government mission — no more talk but action — and we be determined to deliver it for the sake of woman and girl . impact of Socio - economic Disadvantage on Future earning what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to tackle the impact of socioeconomic disadvantage on future earning . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to tackle the impact of socioeconomic disadvantage on future earning . the Government be commit to break the link between young people ' s background and their future success . I be proud to lead our opportunity mission across government , through which we will ensure that every child thrive in education and achieve their ambition in work and later life , no matter what their background . in Wales , break down barrier to opportunity have long be an area of work , but with so many lever of change have be in the hand of a UK Tory Government , success over the past 14 year have be greatly hamper . will my right hon . friend assure I that Cabinet colleague in this Government will work closely with Welsh Government partner , so that future earning in Clwyd North reflect the huge potential that I see in our child and young people every day ? yes , I give my hon . friend that assurance . we will work closely with devolve government to make sure that we be all pull together to break down the barrier that too many of our young people face . that be why the work on child poverty that the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions and I be lead on be so crucial . we know that child poverty be an issue that blight too many life across the UK . coastal area , include my constituency of worthe West , experience low life expectancy and high preventable ill health than many non - coastal area . that be directly relate to the fact that they often have high level of socioeconomic deprivation . what step be my right hon . friend take to address the specific inequality in coastal community ? my hon . friend be a real champion for her constituent and for coastal community , and I recognise that different community have distinct challenge . work be already under way to ensure that where someone be from do not determine whether they can succeed , but I would be happy to discuss that far with my hon . friend . young people in my community with care experience be campaign for care and care experience to be classify as a protect characteristic . will the Minister meet they and I to discuss whether the Government plan to do that ? we be look carefully at what more we need to do to ensure that all care - experienced young people receive the support they need . we know that outcome be often incredibly poor , and we recognise the disadvantage that care - experienced young people face . we be look at what more we can do through legislation and beyond to ensure that all young people get the support they deserve . I will ensure that my colleague from the Department for Education , the Minister for Children and Families , be in touch with the hon . Lady . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer to that important question . what discussion have she have with the Department for Communities back home in Northern Ireland to ensure that individual from all socioeconomic background have equal opportunity in relation to pay , regardless of where they grow up ? I be afraid I do not catch all of the hon . Gentleman ' s question , but I be happy to discuss it with he far . I have meet my counterpart in Northern Ireland . I recognise our share challenge and want to ensure that we work constructively across the devolved government on area of concern . discrimination against disabled People what step she be take to help end discrimination against disabled people . we want a more inclusive society with less discrimination , and our election manifesto commit we to put the view and voice of disabled people at the heart of all we do . as a first step , we be legislate to deliver equal pay for disabled people , with disability pay gap monitoring for large employer . a huge part of tackle discrimination against disabled people be challenge preconception about what people can achieve . will the Minister therefore join I in congratulate the phenomenal Joseph Adams , a 21 - year - old with down ' s syndrome in my constituency , who recently run ten 10 km race in ten different country in just five day as part of his " no limit " challenge ? he have raise a staggering £ 400 , 000 for a disability sport and employment programme in my community . I be delighted to congratulate Joseph , and I welcome my hon . friend ' s draw his achievement to our attention . I spend an inspiring few day at the Paralympics in Paris not long ago . it be partly inspiring because we come second behind only China — ahead of the USA , and ahead of all the other european country as well . my hon . friend be right to highlight the importance of this issue . we be go to work with disabled people and their organisation to make sport more accessible and to remove the barrier that be too often in place . Cass Review what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the recommendation of the Cass review . the Cass review be a robust report back by clinician and firmly ground in evidence . the Government and NHS England will be implement Dr Cass ' s recommendation in full , so that child and young people get the safe , holistic care and support they need . Dr Cass ' s review be an important moment for service for young people in this country . will the Minister restate the Government ' s commitment to ensure that all the review ' s finding , which be base on evidence ahead of ideology , be implement ? do the Minister also reject call from various vested interest group to pause implementation , and press ahead as quickly as possible to protect vulnerable young people in our country ? as I say in my original answer , the Government be absolutely committed to implement all of Dr Cass ' s evidence - base review in full . I thank the Minister for her response and the robust response from this Labour Government to support the Cass review . will she confirm that she be have robust conversation with devolved government about its implementation across the United Kingdom ? the Secretary of State have meet the leader of all the devolve administration to discuss our intention to work with they very closely across all issue that come under our sphere , include the Cass recommendation . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for take up the recommendation of the Cass review . child struggle with their gender identity deserve our protection and a holistic , understand approach via our new NHS centre , rather than irreversible medical and surgical intervention . will the Minister confirm that the British Medical Association ' s original position that the Cass review contain unsubstantiated recommendation will not delay that protection be put in place for vulnerable child ? I can not reiterate any more strongly than I have that this Government be absolutely committed to implement the Cass review ' s evidence - base recommendation in full . woman in the Workplace what step she be take to support woman in the workplace . as part of our mission to make work pay , we will provide protection from maternity discrimination and sexual harassment . we will speed up progress on the gender pay gap and strengthen equal pay protection . the step we will take will enable woman everywhere to thrive and transform their work life for the well . do the Minister agree that , unlike some of the incredibly worrying comment we have hear from Opposition leadership contender this week , in order to grow our economy we need to create the condition to encourage and support more woman back into the workplace ? I strongly agree . support woman to return and to progress at work be a crucial part of secure economic growth . it be very surprising that that be even in doubt . this Labour Government be on the side of new mother , which be why our plan to make work pay commit to strengthen their workplace protection , improve access to flexible working and create the condition for all parent to balance work and care . four woman have be brutally kill in the past six week in Northern Ireland , bring the total to 24 since 2020 . many of these young woman be professional woman work and contribute to society . do the Minister agree that we need to do more than just pay lip service to support woman , whether in the home or in the workplace , to punish these perpetrator ? I absolutely agree . it be extremely concern whenever we hear of what happen to woman in the home , in the workplace or on the street . woman deserve to be safe , as do girl . that be why this Government be act at pace to ensure that , for example , we have domestic abuse specialist in emergency room and specialist rape crisis centre . we be work across the whole of the United Kingdom on these share concern for the sake of woman and girl . today mark the start of Baby Loss Awareness Week . it be a difficult but important time for many of our constituent and those of we who have experience baby loss or miscarriage . many private sector employer , and now the NHS — the large public sector employer of woman — have lead the way in offer pay bereavement leave for those who miscarry . do the Minister agree that all worker could and should benefit from the right to bereavement leave follow baby loss ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that question , and I congratulate she on her election as Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . she have campaign for many month — indeed , year — on the issue of baby loss , as have other member across the House . I be very pleased to see that progress among some major employer , and I know that she will want to work with we on ensure that those who experience baby loss be support and protect , particularly at the most difficult time . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . this Black History Month , I would like to reiterate that people ' s race or ethnicity should never be a barrier to opportunity . we be enhance right through upcoming legislation on race and disability , equality , employment right and ban conversion practice . to deliver that important work , we be reform the Equality Hub to create the office for equality and opportunity in the Cabinet Office . there be much to do , work within and beyond Government , to create opportunity and promote equality across the UK . we have have some progress since the Government be elect on issue relate to black and minority ethnic woman and domestic violence . however , Valerie Forde , who be my constituent , be brutally murder by her partner , and Valerie ' s law — name for she and campaign for by her daughter and the charity Sistah Space in my constituency — have not yet hit the statute book . will the Minister reconsider and examine the support need for woman because of their ethnic , and racial or cultural background ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for all the campaign work that she have do in this crucial area in the face of the tragic loss of Valerie Forde . we must do everything we can to ensure that all victim of violence against woman and girl receive the support that they need . I will make arrangement for she to discuss far with a Home Office Minister what more we need to do , particularly around police training and standard . I call the shadow Minister . the Conservative Government introduce the hugely successful opt - out HIV and hepatitis testing programme for A & Es in London , Brighton , Blackpool and Manchester , with a £ 20 million commitment to expand the programme to 33 more , diagnose more than 1 , 300 people with HIV in the first two year and tackle health inequality . this have mean , crucially , that more LGBT + people , woman , people of black african ethnicity and old people have be diagnose and support . will the Minister assure the House that the funding and commitment will remain ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise such an important issue , on which all member across the House want to make progress . official be work on further plan , which we will set out very shortly , but we will be keen to work with she and colleague across the House to make sure that we eradicate new HIV and AIDS infection . many of my constituent in Exeter benefit from maternity pay , which support woman while they spend precious time with their new - bear child . be the Minister of the view that maternity pay , in the word of one Tory leadership candidate , have " go too far " ? absolutely not , and my hon . friend be right to mention the fact that that kind of assessment fly in the face of not only common sense , but all the economic evidence . when we support woman to return to work and to progress at work , while be able to spend time with their family , we grow our economy — something that this Government be determined to do . across Aldridge - Brownhills , we have some fabulous girl ' football team and the excellent Walsall Wood lady football club at Oak Park active living centre , no doubt inspire by the Lionesses . the last Government commit funding to support woman ' s and girl ' football . can the Minister confirm that that funding will continue ? I assure the right hon . Lady that we be absolutely determined to encourage our woman and girl to take part in sport and physical activity — something that fall off all too often as girl reach their teenage year . in my work in the Department for Education , through the curriculum and assessment review , we be look at what more school can do , and go beyond that , we be work with sporting body to deliver more . accessible transport be a major challenge for my constituent , especially access rail station on the Tyne valley railway line . will the Minister work with the Department for Transport to ensure that great British Railways put disabled access at the heart of its plan ? yes , we will . accessibility be at the heart of the Government ' s passenger - focus approach , and with a unified rail network , we will be able to meet accessibility need more reliably and consistently and plan how good to improve accessibility across the entire network . the Government have make a number of commitment on the implementation of the Cass review . will they commit themselves to ensure that trans people do have access to the healthcare that they need , and to ensure that waiting list be bring down as soon as possible ? the hon . member be right to draw attention to the very long waiting list currently experience by many people . I know that the Health Secretary be focus on the issue , as well as on LGBT health more broadly — indeed , on health for everyone — as part of our mission to get the NHS off the floor and off its knee and work for everyone in the country . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 9 October . early this week , the House mark the first anniversary of the horrific attack on 7 October , and I take this opportunity to reiterate that the hostage must be release . I also reiterate our call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and Lebanon . this week , the Government will deliver on our promise to the british people of the big upgrade of worker ’ right in a generation . the employment right Bill will ensure that work pay ; it will forge a new partnership with business , and reset the dreadful industrial relation that have cost our economy and our national health service so much in recent year . we be also prepare for the international investment summit next week , which will bring hundred of global chief executive officer to the United Kingdom and unlock billion of pound of investment . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in the House , I shall have further such meeting later today . the commitment of £ 400 million for a new hospital at Watford General be one of the many brilliant thing that the last Conservative Government do , along with my good friend Dean Russell , the former Member of Parliament for Watford . it would have be life - change as well as lifesave for so many of my constituent . why be the Prime Minister cancel that funding commitment , and spend billion of pound on give pay rise to train driver instead ? because the promise of 40 new hospital do not involve 40 and do not involve hospital , they be not new , and they be not fund . one of the big issue in my constituency be poor access to GP service . our GP satisfaction rate be 15 % below the national average . I thank the Government for their focus on improve the situation . what be they do to ensure that everyone in West Bromwich can actually see their gp ? the most visible sign of the failure of the last Government be the NHS . we be go to expand the role of community pharmacy and accelerate the roll - out of independent prescriber . we need much more care to be deliver in local community so that problem can be spot early , and we will train thousand more gps . we be elect to change the country , and that mean get the NHS back on its foot . my right hon . friend the Chancellor will have much more to say about that in the Budget — about fix the foundation of our economy so that we can put money in people ' s pocket , fix our public service and rebuild Britain . I call the Leader of the Opposition . tomorrow , the Government will publish their anticipated change to employment law . give the weekend ' s event , when do the Prime Minister first become a convert to fire and rehire ? I be very pleased and proud that tomorrow we will publish the Bill that will mean the big upgrade of worker ’ right in a generation . that will do two thing : first it will give people basic dignity at work , and secondly it will help to grow our economy — something on which the last government absolutely fail for 14 long year . when the Prime Minister talk about security at work , once again it be one rule for he and another rule for everyone else . I know that not everything or everyone have survive his first 100 day in government , so can he confirm that when he promise not to raise income tax , national insurance or vat , that commitment apply to both employer and employee national insurance contribution ? as the right hon . Gentleman well know , I be not go to get draw on decision that will be set out . we make an absolute commitment to not raise tax on work people . he , of course , be the expert ' s expert on raise taxis , and what do we get in return for it ? we get a broken economy , break public service and a £ 22 billion black hole in the economy . we be here to stabilise the economy , and we will do so . I don ' t think that even Lord Alli be buy any of that nonsense . I be not ask about the Budget ; I be ask specifically about the promise that the Prime Minister make to the british people . so let I ask he again just to clarify his own promise : do his commitment not to raise national insurance apply to both employee and employer national insurance contribution ? we set out our promise in our manifesto . we be return with a huge majority to change the country for the well , and I stick to my promise in the manifesto . but I notice that the right hon . Gentleman be on question three , and he have not yet welcome the investment into this country . we have have in recent month £ 8 billion from Amazon for job across the country , £ 10 billion from Blackstone for job across the north - east , £ 22 billion on carbon capture for job in the north - east and north - west , and £ 500 million for UK bus in Northern Ireland . while we be invest in our economy , what be Conservative Members do ? they be argue about whether to scrap maternity pay . I be very happy to welcome investment that my Government negotiate , but when it come to the Prime Minister ' s answer on tax , business across the country would have find his answer just about as reassuring as Sue Gray find it when he promise to protect her job . it be no wonder that confidence be plummet on his watch , which he do not mention . turn to another commitment , before the election his Chancellor say that change the debt target in the fiscal rule would be tantamount to " fiddle the figure " . do he still agree with the Chancellor ? the right hon . Gentleman be literally the man who be in charge of the economy . over 14 year , the Conservatives crash the economy . what do they leave ? a £ 22 billion black hole in the economy . unlike they , we will not walk past it . we will fix it , and it be only because we be stabilise the economy that we be get investment into this country . I notice that he have still not really talk about that investment . we be power ahead with clean british energy , change the rule to build 1 . 5 million home and return railway to public ownership , and the Conservatives have nothing to say about any of it . on debt , we leave the Government the second low debt in the G7 . as the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say — [ interruption . ] order . I will hear the Leader of the Opposition . as the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say , it be " hard to escape the suspicion " that the Government be attract to this change because " it would allow for significantly more borrowing " . the Chancellor previously say that this change would be " fiddle the figure " , so I have a simple question : do the Prime Minister still agree with the Chancellor ? I see the right hon . Gentleman be back to his old script of , " they ' ve never have it so good . " it do not work so well at the election , so it might be time to change that . I be not go to get draw on issue for the Budget , just as he would not when he stand at this Dispatch Box . meanwhile , we be invest and we be build the NHS so that it be fit for the future and back on its foot , with well opportunity for young people and protection at work . after 14 year of Tory failure , we be give the country its future back , and that be the difference that labour deliver . it be clear that the Prime Minister have open the door to raise employer national insurance contribution , include on pension , and fiddle the figure so that he can borrow more . he talk about what he have achieve , but economic confidence be plummet , growth be now stall and the UK ' s borrowing cost be rise on his watch . can I close on another important topic ? yesterday ' s intervention from the head of MI5 will have be sober for the whole House , not least his warning that Britain face the most complex and interconnect threat in our country ' s history . I know the Prime Minister will agree that our security service be owe a debt of gratitude for what they do to keep we safe , but can he confirm that the forthcoming terrorism Bill will give our security service the power they need to tackle evolving threat ? I can assure he of our constructive support on these vital question of national security , in the same spirit that he provide that support to I . I can confirm that we will give the security force and service the power that they need , and I hope that that be a share objective across the House . they do an incredibly important job for we . but the right hon . Gentleman talk about the economy , and it be a real shame that the opposition can not simply — [ interruption . ] well , he do at the beginning of his question a moment ago . listen on ! it be a shame the opposition can not celebrate Britain ' s success under this Government . of course we have to take tough decision , but when investment be pour in as it have be in recent week , when the NHS strike be come to an end , when house be get build and when we be deliver the big upgrade of worker ’ right in a generation , it be time for they to accept that we be fix the foundation . while they fight among themselves in the comfort zone of unfunded promise , threaten to scrap the minimum wage , we be go to get on with the job of clear up the mess they make and create the well country that people be cry out for . Cancer be hard on the patient and on their family , as my family know all too well this year . will the Prime Minister commit to do all he can to improve research , early diagnosis and patient care for those with cancer ? will he join I in thank the NHS staff who have look after my dad in recent week and the thousand of cancer patient like he in Newcastle - under - Lyme and up and down our United Kingdom ? I be sorry to hear about my hon . friend ' s father , and I think we would all pass he our good wish . cancer be another example of the dreadful state the last Government leave the NHS in . the Darzi report , publish just a few week ago , show that some cancer standard have not be meet since 2015 and that no progress be make in diagnose cancer at stage 1 and stage 2 between 2013 and 2021 . I be really pleased that we have just announce a £ 6 . 4 million research network , develop new AI software to identify cancer early . we will get the NHS catch cancer on time , diagnose it early and treat it fast . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats , Sir Ed Davey . across this House , we all agree that we need to get our economy grow strongly again so that we can improve people ' s life and raise the money for our public service . the Liberal Democrats believe that one of the good way of do that be to improve our relationship with our european neighbour on thing like trade , and I welcome the fact that the Prime Minister have make that a priority in his first few week , but what I just do not understand be that he have rule out negotiate a youth mobility scheme with our european partner . this could be so good for young people , for business and for re - establish that relationship . will he reconsider ? the right hon . Gentleman be right : we do need a well deal with the EU than the bad deal we get under the last government . that be why I be pleased to meet the President of the Commission last week to talk about how we can improve on the deal . in our manifesto we have clear red line about the single market , the customs union and freedom of movement , and we will negotiate with those red line in place . I be disappointed about the youth mobility scheme — maybe we can come back to that — but the Prime Minister be right to say that one of the many problem for our economy come from the dreadful Brexit deal be the red tape that have be put on business . there be many example of that , but a new example come to I early this week . it affect fisherman in the Falklands , who be have to pay huge amount in tariff to be able to sell their produce into the european market , or sail under a spanish flag . when the Prime Minister renegotiate the trade deal , can he remember the overseas territory and ensure that british citizen fish off the Falklands can sail proudly under the Union Jack ? my uncle nearly lose his life when his ship be torpedo defend the Falklands . they be british , and they will remain british . the sovereignty of Gibraltar be equally not to be negotiate . of course , we will do everything we can to make it easy for all business to trade more freely so that we can grow our economy , but I have be very clear about the Falklands . it be personal to I . Conservative - lead Derbyshire county council be propose to cut adult day centre and care home across Derbyshire . my constituent Pat be diagnose with dementia in 2016 . the Jubilee centre in New Mills be a lifeline for she and her family . she always return happy , less confused and less anxious . for David , her partner and main carer , it provide vital respite . Pat and David do not know how they will survive without it . will the Prime Minister join I in ask the Conservatives on Derbyshire county council to think again and to oppose these devastating cut to old people and their family ? I be shocked to hear of the impact on Derbyshire county council , which be propose cutback to adult social care . council across the country be on the frontline of the last government ' s ruinous economic failure , which have leave people who rely on service count the cost . there be no quick fix , but we will provide council with more stability and certainty through multi - year funding settlement , ensure that council can properly plan their finance for the future . we will work with local leader to deliver this . do the Prime Minister have any sense of unease that , although he be Prime Minister of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , there be more than 300 area of law in Northern Ireland in which legislation be make in a foreign Parliament ? have he any ambition to recover UK sovereignty over those 300 area of law , thereby restore the equal citizenship of my constituent and end their disen - franchising in respect of make law that govern much of their economy ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that important issue . the Windsor framework be negotiate by the last Government . we support it , and we continue to support it . we will work to make sure it be implement properly and fully . one in two child in my constituency live in poverty after housing cost be take into account , so I welcome the Government ' s commitment to tackle child poverty , but we all know that every year of poverty have a long - term impact . when do the Prime Minister expect the welcome child poverty taskforce to report so that we can see action ? I thank my hon . friend for her important question . it be appal that child poverty have go up by 700 , 000 since 2010 , after the last Labour Government do so much to bring it down . tackle this be at the heart of our mission to break down the barrier to opportunity . the taskforce be develop a strategy to reduce child poverty , and it will be publish in the spring of next year . the Prime Minister ' s decision to impose vat on independent school strip hard - work family of the ability to choose what be good for their child , while risk job loss for teacher , increase class size and squeeze state school resource to their absolute limit . what action be he take to mitigate these impending threat if he be not undertake an impact assessment to understand they ? I do understand that many parent across the country save hard to be able to send their child to private school because they have aspiration for their child , but so do every parent who send their child to a state school . the problem be that we do not have enough teacher in key subject in our state secondary school . the conservative party may be prepared to tolerate that , but I be not . that be why we have make this change to fund 6 , 500 teacher . [ interruption . ] they chunter on , but they have to answer the question that none of they be answer . if they be not go to make this change , be they go to leave our state secondary without the teacher they need ? or be they go to cut the education budget by £ 1 . 5 billion ? which be it ? Gloucester have a proud military history , from the battle of the Imjin river to RAF Quedgeley and the glorious Glosters . in fact , almost 10 % of Gloucester household be home to a veteran , so can the Prime Minister update the House on what this government be do to support veteran , in particular how he will meet his promise to ensure every veteran in Gloucester have a roof over their head ? we owe an enormous debt to all our veteran . it be a great honour to announce at our party conference that our plan to build new home across the country will ensure that homeless veteran be at the front of the queue for new social housing , recognise their incredible sacrifice and contribution . we will repay all those who serve we and house all veteran in housing need , ensure home be there for hero . we be also ensure veteran have access to support , include with mental health and employment . special educational need budget in North Yorkshire and across the UK be under huge pressure . as they prepare for the Budget , will the Prime Minister and the Chancellor look carefully at how increase funding and change to the funding formula could make a massive difference to the life of thousand of child across the country ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for raise this issue , which be of real concern across the country for many parent who be concerned about provision . I agree that child with special educational need and disability be be fail , with parent struggle to get their child the support they need and deserve . we have to change that . I be determined to raise standard for every child , so they succeed in education . we will work with the sector , and across the House where we can , to deliver on that mission , which be very important to many parent who will be watch today . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s focus on economic growth and I look forward to the international investment summit next week . constituent across the country want to see their local high street thrive . from his own visit , the Prime Minister will know that Basingstoke ' s Top of the Town have huge potential , but it be not what it could be . what support will this Government give to ensure high street across the country be able to grow and thrive ? I remember that visit . here be the new political vibe : invest with Labour or decline with the Tories . that be why I be so pleased to read out the investment we have have in the last few week . we have a big summit come up on Monday , with hundred of ceo come , and I be confident we will be make further such investment announcement in week to come . that be what will fix and stabilise our economy . because we be take the tough decision , the investment be now come flow into this country , to fulfil our obligation to raise living standard across the country . the A483 run through my constituency from Llanymynech to Oswestry . it be one of the busy and most dangerous road in the constituency , and National Highways say the crossroad at Llynclys be the bad accident blackspot in the midland . it have a proposal to improve the situation , but Treasury rule place a high value on road speed than on the life of North Shropshire ' s resident . will the Prime Minister look at flex those rule to back National Highways and my resident , to give they the safe road they deserve ? I thank the hon . member for raise this . it be obviously a big and important issue in her constituency . it be vital that as we invest we improve safety and deliver well journey for driver . National Highways continue to study the case for safety improvement to the A483 and will continue to do so . as she probably know , decision will be set out under the third road investment strategy . I know that the Roads Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , will have hear her representation and will agree to a meeting , if that be what she would like . Bolton Hospice provide vital service to individual with life - limit condition yet , like hospice across the country , it face a difficult financial future and be reliant on fundraising , include the kind donation I be able to raise when I climb Mount Kilimanjaro last year and from the campaign run by . what step be the Prime Minister take to ensure hospice , like the one in Bolton , be put on a sustainable financial footing ? I congratulate my hon . friend on his effort in relation to his local hospice . we want everyone to have access to high - quality care , include end of life care . that be why we require all local NHS body to commission service from hospice to meet the need of their local population . Most hospice be charitable , independent organisation that also receive funding for provide NHS service . we have inherit a huge problem with the £ 22 billion black hole , but we be determined to move forward on this none the less . since the signing of the Belfast agreement in 1998 , more people in Northern Ireland have now sadly lose their life to suicide than those who be kill during the 30 year of the trouble . do the Prime Minister agree that the challenge with poor mental health in Northern Ireland , some of which be directly relate to the violence of our past , be a unique and press legacy of the trouble ? will he therefore commit to task his government to work collaboratively with the Department of Health in Northern Ireland to explore how these issue can be properly recognise and resolve ? I thank the hon . member for raise that important matter . I do know at first hand the deep impact that the trouble have have on so many in Northern Ireland . we must ensure that those with mental health issue receive the support and the care that they need . public service be obviously devolve in Northern Ireland , but we will work with the Executive and leader to support they in deliver well outcome . that be why my Secretary of State for Health and Social Care speak to the Health Minister in Northern Ireland in the first week that he be in the Department . I be sure that he will be prepare to follow up on the matter should the hon . Member wish he to do so . in my constituency of Hexham , frighten parent and family be have to fight tooth and nail and to travel extremely long distance to secure fair treatment and full education for their child . will the Prime Minister outline step that the Government will take to improve outcome and result for child with special educational need and disability , particularly those in the most rural part of the north - east ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . this reinforce the point that the SEND provision be a failure of the previous Government , particularly in rural community . the issue be feel by member on both side of the House . it be really important and we have a duty now to pick it up and ensure that all child with SEND receive the right support to succeed in their education , and we will continue to do so . on the assist die Bill , which be a private Member ' s Bill , the Government be quite rightly stay neutral , but the real issue with the Bill be that the time constraint of private legislation make it difficult to get it right first time . if we get this wrong first time , the consequence be too terrible to contemplate . in 1967 , the Government of the day give time to allow David Steel ' s Abortion Bill to go through . will the Prime Minister commit to give extra time — government time — to the Bill to ensure that we get this right first time ? I thank the right hon . member for raise this question on a really important issue . I do understand that there be strongly hold view across the House — on both side and within both side , if I can put it in that way . I do agree with he that it be important that we ensure that any change to the law — if there be to be one — be effective . if this House give the Bill a second reading , it will of course then go to Committee as usual , which will allow that more detailed scrutiny , but we do need the discussion more broadly on this important issue . with shared prosperity funding draw to a close , and Cornwall have some of the great potential in Europe in critical mineral and renewable energy , it be time for our aspire celtic tiger to identify much more strategic source of investment funding , which take we away from the short - termist begging - bowl politic of the previous decade . will the Prime Minister meet Cornish mp to discuss the future of industrial and social funding in Cornwall ? my hon . friend be a proud Cornish MP . he be absolutely right that economic growth must be spread across the country ; it can not simply be focus in the south - east and London . he will no doubt have see today the float offshore wind taskforce report , which set out that the UK ' s industry can support ten of thousand of job , include huge job opportunity in the south - west . I will ensure that a meeting be arrange for he with the appropriate Minister . today be pan panda Awareness Day , which be about a paediatric condition affect potentially thousand of child across the UK . I first raise the condition in the Chamber 18 month ago , when I hear about its devastating impact from a constituent . do the Prime Minister agree that it should not be for a charity to fund the pathway analysis and research need to ensure that people and child get the support they need ? will he help facilitate a meeting for I with the charity and the Department of Health and Social Care ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this important issue and remind the House of the impact that it have . I can certainly arrange that meeting so that we can take it far forward . my constituent be anxious about the financial situation at Durham county council . the Tories ' unfair funding formula have hollow out essential public service such as social care , while demand have be increase . what assurance can the Prime Minister give I that essential service will be restore and that a new funding formula will be genuinely fair , focus on the need of my constituent , especially the most vulnerable ? my hon . friend highlight yet another failing of the last government . successive year of underfunding have leave council experience significant budget pressure , and that be feel by constituent , resident and individual across the country . this Government will clear up the mess and get council back on their foot . Multi - year funding settlement will partly help to allow long - term work to be do . but we recognise the importance of council , which know their community well . with great stability , we can support they in ensure that the service that they provide get to the people who need they . in April , more than 50 home and business in Gosport find themselves underwater when Storm Pierrick hit ; some people have still not be able to return to their property . this have now be upgrade to a one - in - 20 - year risk . we have still not have a decision from the Environment Agency about flood and coastal erosion risk management funding , for which we have apply . despite request , I have still be unable to secure a meeting with the Prime Minister ' s DEFRA team . winter be come and my constituent be worried . when be he go to grip this ? this be a really important issue in term — [ interruption . ] look , we be not go to take lesson from the conservative party . year after year , we visit constituency and area that be flood because there have be a failure to take adequate protection . what I say in the election campaign be that we would set up a flood resilience taskforce to get ahead of the issue . we will do that , and I will ensure that the hon . Lady can get such further information as she need . October be Black History Month , and the theme this year be " reclaim Narratives " . I thank you , Mr Speaker , for the event that you be put on in your apartment with the Temptations , and the Prime Minister — [ Laughter . ] the Temptations tribute band . the Prime Minister will be have an event at no . 10 this evening . do he agree that it be important that we continue to have a debate on the Floor of the House in Government time on Black History Month ? I be not sure that something label " Temptations " be quite where I need to go at the moment — [ Laughter . ] but this be a really important initiative . it be important that it be be mark and I be very pleased to be host the event this evening , to which I think my hon . friend be come . Northern Ireland City Deals ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland if he will make a statement on the Northern Ireland city deal . as the Chancellor set out in July , the Government have inherit a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . as a result , the Treasury be have to consider a range of measure to deal with this significant problem . last month , the Treasury inform the Northern Ireland Department of Finance that the UK Government ' s contribution to the Mid South West deal and the Causeway Coast and Glens deal would now be consider as part of the spending review . the Belfast regional city deal and the Derry / Londonderry and Strabane city deal be unaffected and proceed as plan . since the announcement of the pause on those two deal , I have meet with the First Minister , the Deputy First Minister , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury and the Northern Ireland Finance Minister . I will also be meet the chief executive of those two deal shortly . everyone in Northern Ireland understand the importance of the city deal to economic growth and encourage investment , and this Government be commit to work with the Northern Ireland Executive and business to make the most of the huge economic opportunity that now lie ahead . that be show by the progress be make on the Belfast region city deal and the Derry / Londonderry and Strabane city deal . I attend the Derry / Londonderry and Strabane city deal signing on 18 September . the UK Government ' s £ 105 million investment will help to progress transformative innovation , digital and health project , which will build on the region ' s well - establish research excellence . the Chancellor will set out the result of the first phase of the spending review on 30 October , which will include an update on the two outstanding city deal . I call the shadow Secretary of State . as the House will know , on the evening of Friday 13 September — the day after we go into recess — the Government take it upon themselves to make a number of announcement affect Northern Ireland : the cancellation of the Casement Park project ; the decision that Sean Brown ' s family will not be give a public inquiry into his murder ; and the subject of this urgent question , the pausing of four Northern Ireland city deal . it be quite something to instantaneously unite all the political party in Northern Ireland , but that be the feat achieve by the Government on the evening of Friday the 13th . the House will be aware of how crucial the city deal be , provide significant investment to boost economic growth , create job and enhance infrastructure and bring together Westminster , Belfast , local council and private investment . we be pleased that the follow day , after considerable confusion , the Government u - turn and announce that the Belfast region city deal and the Derry and Strabane city deal would go ahead , but the other two regional growth deal — the Causeway Coast and Glens deal and the Mid South West deal — now sit in limbo . critically , those deal cover area that have not have the same level of investment in recent year as big city . one need only look at the empty shop in Enniskillen and Armagh to understand that these deal be badly need . can the Secretary of State tell the House why be the decision to pause take at such a time and why be it announce in such a way ? follow that announcement , why be there then a u - turn on two of the deal but not the other two ? what criterion be use to make that decision ? the Secretary of State have refer to money . he know that the so - call black hole , for which the Government have provide no breakdown , be partially of Labour ' s make , give the above - inflation pay rise that it have choose to award to the union . he will know that the money involve be , in the world of the Exchequer , not that significant and , crucially , will deliver major return to Northern Ireland and to the UK . I ask the Secretary of State for two thing . the first be an apology for how the matter be handle ; I know he would not have want it to happen in the way it do , but someone should take responsibility for how the House and the people of Northern Ireland have be treat . the second be that , in negotiate with the Treasury in the run - up to the Budget , he will be the lead advocate for un - pause those city deal . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his response . on the matter of Casement Park , since he raise it , I will say that we take the decision for the reason we set out , and I think it be one that he support . on the question of Sean Brown , I set out in my letter to the family why I have reach the conclusion that I do . I would just correct the hon . gentleman : the Belfast city deal be never affect at all — it be roar ahead and be a great success . in the case of Derry , I be pleased to attend the signing of the deal , which will now progress to its next stage . I would also simply say to the hon . Gentleman that the public finance inheritance the last Government leave we — [ interruption . ] well , the last Government make a load of promise but never identify where the money to pay for they would come from , and then they be turf out and leave this government to deal with the problem . that be the reason for the situation with these two city deal . he can rest assure that I , as Secretary of State , will continue to make the case for the two city deal , which be why I say in my opening answer to he that everybody in Northern Ireland , include I , understand their importance , and I will continue to make that case . but in those circumstance , the Chancellor have find it necessary to look at a whole range of commitment that be make by the last Government for which no funding have be identify , and the fault for that do not lie with we , and if any apology be require , a belate apology from the other side for the mess they leave we would be much appreciated . I call the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . city and town in Northern Ireland have already miss out on levelling - up funding under the previous Government , as I see at first hand as shadow Minister , so the uncertainty regard the city deal have be quite a hard hit on the people in Northern Ireland . I seek further reassurance from the Secretary of State that the people of Northern Ireland will not be overlook in the Budget . I absolutely recognise the uncertainty that this have create and , as I have indicate , I will be meet the chief executive of the two deal very shortly . give the uncertainty while we await the outcome of the first phase of the spending review , the particular problem that they face be that a lot of effort go into progress these deal with the private partner , because the money come from the Government and from the Northern Ireland Executive in the form of match funding , and then other partner , include the local council , and they do find themselves in a difficult position — I will not hide from that . the only other thing I would say be that those two deal be much far back in the process than those for Belfast and Derry ; for the Causeway Coast and Glens deal the head of term have be sign in April of this year , and for the Mid South West deal the term have yet to be sign — I think they be due last month . then there be a further process under which the programme of the deal itself be develop to then get to the stage that Derry reach on 18 September , when the financial agreement be sign and then the business case and the project be unlocked . so I recognise that it be difficult and , as I have already indicate to the council , I will continue to argue for the cause of these deal . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the four city and growth deal for Northern Ireland be critical mechanism in revitalise industry and create new economic opportunity across key region in Northern Ireland . the pause in UK Government funding have cause , by the Secretary of State ' s own admission , uncertainty , anxiety and lose impetus in key investment project under the city and growth deal framework . the Mid South West deal represent over £ 250 million of investment across the region . the decision to allow project in Belfast and Derry to proceed while pause those in the Mid South West and Causeway region risk reproduce the very imbalance that these deal be design to tackle , widen inequity and inequality across Northern Ireland . I have have the opportunity to speak to the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) , who bring to my attention the risk pose to the agri - bio innovation centre in Dromore by the Government ' s withdrawal of secure funding . therefore , on behalf of northern irish business , council and resident , especially those in the poor region , I ask the Secretary of State the follow question . what action be the Government take to mitigate those regional economic imbalance and to tackle inequality , especially in the Mid South West , and what assurance can be provide that rural area will not be forget , again especially in the Mid South West and the Causeway Coast ? order . you be allow one minute and you be now well over that , so I be sure you be come to the end this very second . sorry , Mr Speaker . I will end there , with thank . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , whom I welcome to his post — this be , I think , the first time we have face each other . he make a fair point about the area cover by the two deal that have be pause , and the contrast between they and Derry and Strabane , and Belfast . it be important that , in the end , we see economic growth right across Northern Ireland , so I do not dissent from his proposition , but the reason we be in this difficulty be the legacy that this Government have find . any responsible Chancellor must , in the circumstance , find a way of straighten out the public finance , which be leave to we in a really bad state . my right hon . friend be not the sort of person who would make this announcement unless there be huge pressure to do so , but I be aware that pause a project , especially when people be in post , be not completely cost - free . will he reassure the House and people in Northern Ireland that there will be some way of maintain a degree of momentum on the project that have be pause ? if he could give we any costing on that , it would be helpful . my hon . friend make an important point . the House may have see that yesterday , the Northern Ireland Executive — whose funding be secure because of the deal that be offer , include the financial deal that be part of the restoration of the institution , which the whole House welcome — announce that they be proceed with their share of the contribution , which I hope will offer some comfort to those in the two city deal area who be work out what this mean . it be important that clarity on the future be deliver as quickly as possible , which be why I set out that we will learn more on 30 October . may I speak up for the city deal , which have be subject to a significant amount of work in community across Northern Ireland ? the city deal be review early in the year under the previous Government , at the time of the " safeguard the Union " agreement , and the decision make then be part of that deal . the Secretary of State be make representation on the deal , but I urge he to bear in mind that this be discuss early in the year and be part of the overall agreement make to get Stormont back up and run . I absolutely take the right hon . Gentleman ' s point , give his long experience in these matter and the role that he and other have play in assist with the restoration of the institution , but I would very gently observe that if the matter be review then , what be decide do not quite make its way into the fiscal inheritance that we have find ourselves leave with . that fiscal inheritance — rather than a lack of support for the deal ; I think the whole House support they — be the cause of the problem . city deal be a serious tool for economic growth . that be why the Social Democratic and Labour party initially propose they , and why we continue to be their champion . they support skill and employability , create decent job and , crucially , leverage private and foreign direct investment , drive much - need regeneration in infrastructure in part of Northern Ireland that have be overlook . I be pleased that the Government be honour their commitment to Belfast and Derry , but they should know that the decision , and its announcement on a Friday night , cause very serious frustration and a loss of public trust in Northern Ireland — although the Tories still have a thing or two to teach about unite the party in revulsion at announcement . will the Secretary of State clarify the reason for the pause in the Causeway Coast and Glens and Mid South West region deal , and can he assure we that he will be a champion for the deal with the Treasury ? I will indeed be that champion . may I take this opportunity to congratulate my hon . friend on assume the leadership of her party ? we all wish she well in that endeavour . I also express our appreciation of the former leader of the sdlp , my hon . friend the Member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) , who be sit next to she . let we be frank : the truth be that when bad news be force on the Government , it be unwelcome , whenever it be announce . the Secretary of State will know that city deal be talk of for a long time , but it be in 2017 that the Democratic Unionist party get a commitment from Government — a commitment that would not just impact we but be of benefit to everyone in Northern Ireland , create opportunity for growth in city and region throughout Northern Ireland in a phase , program , sensible and strategic way . the decision to pause both the Causeway Coast and Glens and the Mid South West region deal be unnecessary , and I think the Secretary of State accept that . give that no arrangement be in place to agree the necessary financial requirement , there be no need to pause the deal because of a lack of finance . as I think the Secretary of State acknowledge , this decision place in jeopardy the matched funding from private investor , as well as the ability to proceed with the food and drug development centre in Coleraine , the Enniskillen bypass , and myriad other important and strategically significant proposal . as we wait until 30 October , it would inject confidence if this Government be to say that they recognise the importance and value of city deal ; be determined to deliver on these aspiration , which will be key regional economic driver in Northern Ireland ; and recognise , as I think the Secretary of State do , that pause these proposal be foolish . I do not agree with the right hon . Gentleman ' s last proposition . as I have already indicate to the House , give the fiscal inheritance , the prudent thing be for the Government to say , " we need to look at a range of thing in the round . " I entirely recognise that this decision be unwelcome to many people . the good thing we can do be give certainty as quickly as possible , which would assist , but I entirely understand the practical difficulty that this decision create in the meantime . I will learn more about that when I meet the chief executive of the deal area . the House be united , though , on our share desire to maximise economic growth in Northern Ireland . this week , we have have a really good example of that with the announcement of the very significant order that have go to Wrightbus . this be a company that nearly go bust ; then investment come in , and it be now help to deliver the bus transportation of the future from a factory that I and many other member have have the chance to visit . there be a lot of good thing happen in Northern Ireland , and we need to build on they . what representation have the Secretary of State make to the Treasury about the continuation of these two city deal ? as I be sure my hon . friend understand , anyone hold my office , include I , will argue the corner of Northern Ireland . I will continue to do so . as the Secretary of State who secure funding from the Treasury for the first two deal — the Belfast city deal and the Derry / Londonderry and Strabane deal — I be very pleased that they be go ahead , but I have concern , because I remember the impact that that announcement have on business confidence across Northern Ireland . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with business involve in the private sector element of these deal , to make sure they know that there be a commitment to they ? the right hon . member be very generous and kind to I , but I can not claim credit for the Belfast city deal — it be unaffected by the announcement that the Treasury make — and the signing of the full financial deal for the Derry and Strabane city deal be schedule anyway . after clarification , that deal be go ahead , but when I meet the chief executive shortly , I hope to learn more about the point she raise about the practical impact . it be important that we understand the impact ; that will inform the representation that be make . it seem to I that these question would be well direct at the Treasury , because that be where the decision be make . I thank the Secretary of State for the work he do over the weekend after the 17th to secure the much - need Derry city deal . he have say that there will be an update in the Budget about the other two deal that have be pause . can he confirm whether that will be an update or a decision ? although my hon . friend encourage I to , I will not speak for the Chancellor . she will tell we what be in the Budget when she stand up on 30 October . the Secretary of State will remember that when he and I be at the signing of the Londonderry deal in September , I lobby he strongly to get the other two deal over the line . he have outline the meeting he have hold , but give what he have just say about not meet and talk with the Chancellor about this , will he be meet the Prime Minister ? he have meet other people , and we need to get these deal up and run — over the line — to get much - need investment into area such as mine and the Mid South West . I very much enjoy see the hon . gentleman at the signing of the Derry / Londonderry and Strabane city deal — it be a great event . it be the responsibility of all of we in the House who have the interest of these two deal at heart to make representation to everyone who can influence the final decision . the Secretary of State have talk about his engagement . local authority have a really important role to play in stimulate and facilitate growth , so can he keep local authority in mind as he seek to keep engage , and as he ultimately get we the solution that people want ? I certainly will do that , which be precisely why my next meeting on this matter will be with the chief executive of the two deal area . they will no doubt tell I about the challenge they face at the moment , but it be the partnership that make these deal so successful , as Belfast and Derry / Londonderry and Strabane demonstrate . by bring together the United Kingdom , the Northern Ireland Executive , the local authority and private investor , we get a synergy that result in extraordinary thing . I assume that the Secretary of State have do an impact assessment on the uncertainty cost of this decision , and will know how it will impact growth in Northern Ireland in particular . if so , can he publish that impact assessment ? secondly , I assume that the improved future funding in Northern Ireland be unaffected by this decision . can he confirm that , please ? I be not aware of an impact assessment that have be do . at the end of July , the Chancellor announce all the thing that she would have to look at in deal with the very adverse fiscal inheritance from the previous Government . I apologise to the right hon . Gentleman , but I do not hear what he be refer to in the second part of his question . the Chair of the Northern Ireland Committee , the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , refer to levelling - up fund . be the Secretary of State aware that commitment to business from those fund have also be pause in Northern Ireland ? in particular , Belfast International airport in my constituency be look forward to £ 2 . 3 million from levelling - up fund , and be only tell a fortnight ago that the funding be now on hold . it be not only the city deal ; level - up fund be affect by this decision . the hon . Gentleman be right : a number of thing have be pause . I can think of a levelling - up project in my constituency that have be pause as a result of our fiscal inheritance . that be what the Treasury be have to deal with . as the Secretary of State know , one of the unsung and often undervalue benefit of city deal be that they underpin the argument for the rebuilding of a new , post - conflict Northern Ireland , deliver normalcy and forge partnership between sector . that be an argument that be often lose on the bean counter in the Treasury . can he assure the House that he will be make that key point as we all seek to rebuild Northern Ireland in the image of what we would all like it to become ? the hon . Gentleman make a powerful and important point . the progress that Northern Ireland have make over the past 26 year since the signing of the Good Friday agreement be what everybody be strive to continue . I be confident that the Treasury will pay close attention to the exchange on this urgent question , and the hon . Gentleman ' s eloquence speak for itself . I have listen to the answer that the Secretary of State have give , and I can not understand his logic . first , one of the reason for not progress with these deal be that they be not far enough advanced . do he not recognise the amount of money that have already go into develop they , and how this decision put that money at risk ? who will put further resource into those scheme if there be no certainty at the end ? the Secretary of State have talk about Northern Ireland be part of economic growth . in the Causeway Coast and Glens case , much of the investment will be for economic growth , whether that be the development of food and drug at the University of Ulster , the innovation hub at North West Regional College , or the innovation hub in Cushendall . by not have those scheme in place , the Secretary of State be go to affect economic growth , so can he explain the logic of the decision he have make ? in fairness to myself , I have point out that these two scheme be not as far advanced as the Belfast and the Derry / Londonderry and Strabane city deal , because one of they only recently sign its head of term and the other have yet to do so . from memory , the time it take for the Belfast and the Derry and Strabane deal to get from head of term to full financial deal signing be between two and a half and three and a half year . so there be some way to go base on past experience , precisely because a great deal of work have to be do in partnership with the private sector , the Northern Ireland Executive , local business and the council to put the shape of the deal in place . the right hon . Member make a powerful argument for clarity as quickly as possible . could I suggest that the Causeway deal be particularly well think out and balance in its proposition ? it be therefore very disappointing to see it pause , particularly for the small but vital village of Bushmills , which service the vast number of visitor who come to the Giant ' s Causeway . for year , there have be a neglect of infrastructure there . road have be clog with car because there be not adequate parking in and about Bushmills . this project be go to address that , as well as community rejuvenation in the village . therefore , there be an immense sense of disappointment in Bushmills in my constituency at the lost opportunity . will the Secretary of State , bear in mind the strategic significance of Bushmills to the advancement of the great Giant ' s Causeway project , make a particular case for the reinstatement of the Causeway project ? the hon . Gentleman speak up very strongly on behalf of Bushmills and the Giant ' s Causeway area . I know that all other Members represent constituency affect by the decision the Treasury have have to take will be do exactly the same . I think all the project be important , but he make the case very powerfully . I have two request of the Secretary of State . first , would he put together and compile information on the investment that have be make to date , perhaps in conjunction with Sue Gray in her new role as envoy , or otherwise ? secondly , will he ensure that we get clarity on 30 October , one way or the other , as to whether these deal can go ahead , so that we do not have so many local authority , private business and other who have invest in these programme leave in continue limbo after that date ? there be quite a lot of information already available about the two scheme that be go ahead , what they have achieve and what the plan be . I think that be readily available , if the right hon . Gentleman need it , and I will bear in mind the point he make about information on the other scheme . he and the House have already hear I say a number of time that clarity as soon as possible would be in the interest of everybody . the Secretary of State have kindly agree to meet the council lead in the Mid South West deal area , for which I be a Member of Parliament . Upper Bann , Fermanagh and South Tyrone , and Mid Ulster be all include , but he will note that the other mps for those area be absent from this place . the Secretary of State speak of partnership , synergy and the great thing that can be achieve . sadly , in the Mid South West deal area , we be not go to be able to achieve they because the main partner have pull the plug and pause the deal , which be impact on infrastructure , tourism and regeneration . will the Secretary of State assure the House today that he will make the case for the Mid South West area , which be home to over half a million people and a vital economic driver in Northern Ireland within this United Kingdom ? I have already indicate to the House that I of course give that assurance . as I say in answer to the previous question , all those who have an interest in these scheme progressing and who be concerned about the impact of the pause — the plug have not be pull , and you can not pause a plug , but I think the hon . Member will understand the point — should be make the case , too . if the two city deal do not go ahead and the money be not find through the Treasury , will those deal continue to be park or will they be dead and bury forever ? can the Secretary of State give a reassurance that those deal will continue , maybe far down the line ? I think we be go to have to wait for the Chancellor ' s announcement on 30 October , but as I have already tell the House , other partner be involve in those deal . of course , I welcome the Executive ' s announcement yesterday that they will proceed with the funding of element of those deal out of the money that they have . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . with your indulgence , Mr Speaker , would the Secretary of State extend our collective thank to the emergency service and local people for their response to the Strangford college bus crash on Monday past in my constituency ? it be a miracle that no one be kill , and we thank God for that . there have be headline over the last few week about potential pause of funding for city deal in part of Northern Ireland , some of which cover area of my constituency . can the Secretary of State clarify that in the future action will be take to ensure that funding that be offer will be deliver , and that devolve nation will not suffer as a result of central funding shortfall here ? with your permission , Mr Speaker , I echo what the hon . Gentleman say about that bus crash . I must say that , when I first read the report , I be very fearful — I think we all be — about what might have be the consequence . I think the response of the emergency service be terrific , and I wish all those who be injure the very good for the future . I understand that the school be provide support , because it must have be and be still a very traumatic experience for the student who be on the bus . in answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s second point , we would all like to live in a world of certainty on a whole load of thing . be in government be about have to deal with the bit where certainty be not quite as certain as the hon . Gentleman may have hope . Film Industry with permission , I would like to make a statement about the Government ' s support for film making in the UK . Film be one of the great british success story of the last 30 year . ever since Gordon Brown create the film tax credit back in 2007 , this amazing industry have create job and growth across the UK and fly the flag for british creativity across the world . our Government have huge ambition for the film sector , and today we be introduce secondary legislation that will put rocket booster under this grow industry and unlock the potential of our incredible independent film sector . the UK have some special advantage that give we a natural competitive edge . thank to the creativity and imagination of our author , playwright and publisher , we have some of the good story to tell and take to the screen , help by some of the good story teller in the world — the director , scriptwriter and cinematographer — and against some of the most incredible backdrop , from the Welsh valley to the north - east coastline , as well as act talent that be second to none and that breathe life into those story . our film industry be one of our great economic and cultural success story . it be worth £ 1 . 36 billion and employ more than 195 , 000 people , and it have create true icon such as James Bond , Harry Potter and my personal favourite , Paddington Bear . our Government have three aim for our film industry . first , we want to attract the investment for UK film maker to make the good film in the world . secondly , we want UK audience to see film that reflect their life and their community . that mean tell a wide diversity of british story that draw on the rich cultural inheritance in every region and nation . thirdly , we want the UK to be the good place in the world to make film , because we have the right ingredient : the investment , the talent , the technical skill , the sound stage , the creative imagination , and the right fiscal and regulatory environment . that be why this Government will do everything in our power to ensure that the fiscal and regulatory environment match the ambition of film maker and studio around the world . we want they to invest in great british film making . however , the key to maintain that advantage be an internationally competitive tax regime , and I think that be beyond party politic . as member will know , tax incentive for film be first introduce by the last Labour Government in 2007 , and the previous Conservative Government follow suit with the announcement of a plan UK independent film tax credit in the last spring Budget . we have hear loud and clear the industry ' s concern that any further delay to introduce this secondary legislation , even to the end of the month , may mean that investment in UK independent film be lose . so I be glad to announce that we have today lay the necessary statutory instrument , under the negative process , for the independent film tax credit to take effect . it mean that eligible film with a budget of up to £ 23 . 5 million can claim enhance audiovisual expenditure credit at a rate of 53 % on their qualifying expenditure up to £ 15 million . that be high than the standard 34 % rate for other film . the regulation set out the eligibility criterion for film production company , who can apply from 30 October . this government do not underestimate how important this tax credit be . big blockbuster movie be an important part of the mix , but independent film be every bit as important , both for the british talent that they allow to shine and for the untold story that they bring into the spotlight . too often , people do not see themselves and their community reflect in the story we tell ourselves about ourselves as a nation , and this Government be determined that will change . later today , the 68th London film festival will open with the world premiere of " Blitz " , write , direct and produce by one of our most successful british director , Steve McQueen . Set in England during world war two , it be an example of exactly what film can do . it bring together top talent on screen and off , and it showcase the nation ' s history through storytelling and highlight on screen our beautiful country , from London ' s east end to hull ' s old town . our independent sector have produce film such as " Pride " , " the King ' s Speech " and " bend it like Beckham " , which show our heritage , our community and our culture to the world and act as a springboard from the grassroot for world - class UK talent on screen and behind the scene . while major film production have flourish , small - budget independent film have not receive sufficient support over the past decade . they face multiple challenge , include rise production cost , crew shortage and decline revenue , which have hamper the growth of this vital sector . while too much of our creative industry have traditionally be concentrate in just one part of our country , independent film thrive everywhere , give the chance . this uplift will not only boost creativity but create job , growth and investment in every nation and region . through that , we will help the independent film sector to reach its full potential . while the uplift have be design to support and target british independent film maker , I be glad to say that it be also open to qualify official co - production , because film and television co - production be a key way in which the UK increase its cultural tie and collaboration with Europe and the rest of the world . this government will go far still to support this critical industry . the skill shortage that have be ignore for too long act as a break on the ambition of this incredible sector . that be why this Government launch Skills England to bring about the skill we need for a decade of national renewal of our community , business and country . we will focus apprenticeship once more on young people to set they up to succeed and to help fill the 25 , 000 vacancy in the creative sector . [ Official Report , 13 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 7wc . ] ( Correction ) the Secretary of State for Education be overhaul the apprenticeship levy to provide well career opportunity for young people , build on the success of exist high - quality apprenticeship in the creative industry , and we be work closely with Skills England to ensure that the new flexibility announce by the Prime Minister last month offer short apprenticeship and an improved offer for a creative skill pathway for young people embark on career in this sector . every child should have the chance to live a rich , large life and to consider a career in the art . in addition , the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government be keep the Government ' s mission to deliver economic growth at front of mind when make decision about planning application . I be pleased to announce to the House that yesterday MHCLG recover an application for planning permission for Marlow film studio in Buckinghamshire . the merit of that application will now be review by its Ministers in detail before they reach a decision . finally , next week the Government will host the international investment summit , where industry leader , investor and business from across the world will come together to put the UK back at the global table and to kick - start a decade of economic renewal . as a critical part of that , our creative industry will be at the summit ' s heart . this Government be commit to ensure that the UK be a first - choice destination for film production . we be back up those word with action today . Britain be open for business , and creativity be back at its heart . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be grateful for my first chance at the Dispatch Box formally to congratulate the right hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) on her new job follow the electoral loss of the erstwhile Member for Bristol West , Thangam Debbonaire — I know it be unexpected . give those circumstance , it must be difficult to have in a no . 2 someone who have greet her leapfrog into the Department for Culture , Media and Sport job with all the enthusiasm of Scar when simba return to the pride land . I , for one , be glad that out of the ashe of Thangam ' s tragedy , a new era of lion and hyena do not come to pass . I congratulate the Secretary of State on a tremendous achievement . with 100 day of Labour loom , she have the honour on day 97 of announce labour ' s first decent policy . we know it be decent , because it be a conservative policy . do not be fool : today ' s statutory instrument put into effect the extra support for independent film that we , the Conservatives , bring in at the March Budget . our announcement follow month of careful work with brilliant organisation such as Pact and the British Film Institute , and it be welcome by industry titan such as Chris Nolan , Barbara Broccoli , Steve McQueen and Ridley Scott . at the time , the BFI dub it " a game changer for UK filmmaker " and british storytelling , and " the most significant policy intervention since the 1990 . " the Chancellor and the Culture Secretary now say it be all part of their plan for growth , but it be our plan for growth . as far as I know , they have not get one . even their plan for tax seem to be fall apart , as the socialist utopia of opposition hit the reality of govern . the policy be the late in a seriously successful suite of Conservative - create tax relief that mean this new Labour Government inherit a thrive industry to steward . I be genuinely glad that something have finally be announce ahead of the London film festival . it be a tremendous showcase of UK talent that we back with £ 1 . 7 million from our creative sector vision . through it , we have gift the Culture Secretary something to say , the Chancellor something to back instead of tax , the Prime Minister another sparkling event to go to and the Home Secretary a new police escort to fund , but it have take too long . the consistent feedback we be get from every dcms sector be simple : what be go on ? where be the plan ? if the Culture Secretary get invite to the late gallery opening , will she finally commit to continue the museum and gallery exhibition tax relief at the extended rate , as we commit to in the March Budget ? if she get invite on another rollercoaster , will she give clarity on whether we will secure investment in a new film theme park in Bedfordshire in time for the investment summit ? if the Prime Minister get a bit more time in Arsenal ' s exec suite , will the footballe world get clarity on how this Government wish to regulate it ? can she reply to my letter , send week ago , that ask all these question and more ? in her medium round this morning , the Secretary of State claim that Gordon Brown be behind the success of the british film industry . do the Secretary of State remember that in 2013 , 2014 , 2015 , 2016 , 2022 and 2024 , Labour vote against our film , video game and tv tax relief ? do she accept that regardless of the positive investment environment we create , it be the ingenuity of Britain ' s film maker , costume designer , writer , runner , researcher , post - production talent and actor who have make the UK the good place in the world to make film ? we can not take it for grant . with the Irish Government announce last week that Ireland will receive its own boost tax incentive for film under € 20 million , can she commit to keep a close eye on international competitor , so that we do not lose our edge ? finally , the Culture Secretary ' s press release state : " the new measure be the late in a series of intervention from the government to drive growth , which be create the condition for confident investment and trust partnership with business . " can she name any other growth measure that Labour have reveal that be not rebadge conservative policy and announcement , or thing that will not drive growth , which be to say , anything announce by Ed Miliband ? I thank the hon . Lady for her warm word of welcome at the beginning . I think that be perhaps the beginning and end of the consensus that we might be able to reach today . if I may , I will highlight a few area where we be in agreement . first , I think we be in agreement that today ' s announcement be a thoroughly good thing for the british film industry . secondly , I think we be in agreement that a number of the initiative that this Government be take forward — include the football Bill that she reference and various other issue relate to the competitiveness of our creative industry on the global stage — be welcome and should receive cross - party support . the hon . Lady mention the fact that the Conservative Government bring in this independent film tax credit at the last Budget . if that be true , we would not be need to legislate today . the truth be that the Conservative Government do what the Conservative Government do for 14 year : they talk a good game and then do absolutely nothing to deliver for the people of this country . she say that we vote against film tax credit , but the truth , as she well know , be that we do not vote against they . they be our idea and our initiative in 2007 . in fact , it be her party that oppose they in the first place . if they have have their way in 2007 , our british film industry would not be where it be today , which be rival Hollywood as one of the good film industry in the world . she know full well that we support every one of the measure that , after year of oppose they — they have to be drag kick and scream by the film industry — the Conservatives belatedly come to support . she also know that we vote against successive Conservative Finance Bills because , as we be discover now that we have have a chance to open the book , there be no money attach to any of the measure . it be a hoax and a con trick practise on the british people . I have a great deal of respect for the hon . Lady , and I be grateful to she not just for her welcome today and her warm word but for the support that she and other on the Opposition Benches have give I and the team to take up the mantle . but if I have leave a sector with 25 , 000 vacancy that it could not fill , a legacy of creativity be erase from our community and our classroom and , most of all , a £ 22 billion economic black hole that work - class people be pay the price for up and down the country — all of that — and then have such a resounding rejection from the electorate only a few month ago , I would be speak with a little bit more humility from the Dispatch Box . [ Official Report , 13 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 8WC . ] ( Correction ) I welcome the statement . when we meet the film industry at roundtable in the last Parliament , it consistently call for this measure , so I be delighted to see that the Government be take action . with 25 , 000 job vacancy in the creative industry , do the Secretary of State agree that if we can line up the training , t - level and other skill teach in our sixth form , further education college and education centre , we can create job opportunity for a generation ? I put on record our thank as a Government for the work that my hon . friend have do to champion opportunity for young people in his constituency and across the country . one of the thing that matter personally to our Government be not just that we put rocket booster under some of the fast - grow industry — the creative industry outside of London and the south - east , as well as in London — to offer opportunity in every part of the country , but , crucially , that we ensure that young people in those community can have those opportunity . that be why we have already kick - start the curriculum review to put art , sport , music and culture back at the heart of the curriculum where they belong , after the mindless cultural vandalism of the last 14 year . it be why we be also reform the apprenticeship levy , and it be why we be work closely with industry to ensure that there be no limit on our ambition for young people , so that we can match the ambition that they have for themselves . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Secretary of State mention my favourite film , and I promise that my contribution in the Chamber will always be in the spirit of Paddington Bear and not Mr Curry . as the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism , the hon . member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) , will know after our exchange on Twitter , " Paddington 2 " be the good film . this be a positive statement . the Liberal Democrats welcome the announcement , as we do when it be announce in the Finance Bill early this year . it be good to see the Government follow through on that . the creative industry be the heartbeat of british life and the film industry be a powerful tool for soft power and economic growth , too . this be a first step , but our view be that wide tax relief measure should be consider in future . we need to address the skill gap by reform the apprenticeship levy , as have be mention — that be a positive thing . we should transform it into a training and skill levy . we need to address the barrier to finance suffer by so many in the creative industry . we hear about that regularly , particularly from small operation . we believe that creative enterprise zone will help to regenerate cultural output across our region and nation , and we believe that this country should apply to join Creative Europe to boost the funding option available . I have three question . in the light of Ireland ' s announcement , be the Secretary of State satisfy that the measure announce today give we enough of an advantage over our neighbour in Europe ? on Europe , have the Government consider the merit of enable full participation in Creative Europe ? finally , what step be the Government take to extend access to finance for the creative industry ? I thank the hon . member very much for his warm welcome for the measure . however , the cross - party consensus have now completely break down — in fact , not just across the Benches but on they — because " Paddington " be a far superior film to " Paddington 2 " . it turn out that the hon . member for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) may have be right . I welcome the issue that the hon . Member raise , particularly on finance . we know that there be a major gap in the amount of finance that the creative industry can raise in different part of the country . we also know that the gender gap be a particular problem , and that be something that our Government be determined to address . on Creative Europe , he will doubtless know that the Minister for the Cabinet Office be currently involve in negotiation with Europe to try to build on the paper - thin agreement that the last government secure . we be keen to secure a close relationship with our european friend and neighbour , but obviously those negotiation be ongoing so I can not comment on that at the present time . I have to say , " a Black Hole " sound like a film to be produce by the shadow Chancellor and the Leader of the Opposition . I welcome the statement . will the Secretary of State congratulate Steve Rotheram , the Mayor of the Liverpool city region , who be put £ 17 million into the Hollywood of the north project at the littlewood building , which will create 4 , 000 job ? that be investment from a Labour mayor , support by my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) — a Labour Member of Parliament — and by a Labour council . Labour , Labour , Labour support the film industry . may I take the opportunity to thank my hon . friend for all the work he have do to support the creative industry both in Merseyside and up and down the country ? yesterday I be at Pinewood , where the work he have do to support our creative industry be speak of highly . I share my hon . friend ' s enthusiasm for the work that Steve Rotheram be lead in Merseyside . just a few year ago , the mayor take I to see the newly open Shakespeare North playhouse , an incredible project just a few street from where he grow up . he be tell by the previous Government that nobody would come to see Shakespeare in the north of England — how wrong they be . I be keen to support the work that Steve Rotheram , Tracy Brabin and other mayor in the north of England be do through one Creative North . it be the most exciting project to create a cultural corridor in the north of England , build on the asset and talent that exist in every part of our country . part of the country have not be hear for far too long , but with this Labour Government they will be hear . I call the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . first , I welcome the Secretary of State ' s word . the Select Committee work hard to get that commitment to tax credit in the Budget early this year , and she implement it at a time when investment in british film — particularly low - budget british film — be at its low ebb , be both welcome and timely . our recollection of the previous Government ' s achievement on the creative industry differ . I think that once she have have a little bit of time to get her foot under the table , she will see that she have a hard act to follow on commitment to the creative industry . when do the Secretary of State expect the Government to confirm the introduction of the visual effect tax credit ? they be also announce in the Budget and have be consult on , and they be also desperately need and urgent . I would be grateful for an urgent response on that . do she have any plan to look at the enterprise investment scheme for film and high - end tv ? that be also much need to get investment into british independent film and television . finally , she speak about the investment summit . will she please confirm that the creative industry ' role in that will not just be to add the stardust ? they be such a fundamental and integral part of our industrial strategy and they contribute so much to the british economy , so they must be there as a central focal point of her Government ' s future industrial strategy . I thank the hon . Member very much . I know from her previous role on the Select Committee that she be a formidable chair , and I be very much not look forward to appear in front of she at the early opportunity . the hon . member be absolutely right about the visual effect tax credit . we understand how important these relief be to the industry and we plan to provide an update as soon as we can , although we have the spending review imminently , and there be work ongoing to ensure that we get right our offer to the creative industry as a whole . on the enterprise investment scheme for high - end tv , I be afraid that the answer be similar , but I would welcome the chance to keep talk to the hon . member and to member of the Committee , once she have some . on the investment summit , I appreciate she call I stardust — I do not think I have ever be call stardust before — or do she mean the people that we might bring along ? she and I share the view that the creative industry be absolutely central to our economic growth agenda , and I be really pleased that that view be share by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Secretary of State for Business and Trade . she will see that at the investment summit next week and in the work that we will release over the next few week . I welcome the statement . as a recent chair of the all - party parliamentary group for film and broad screen , I applaud the work of the British Film Institute , which do a great job as a champion of this fantastic sector . in Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney , we have the brilliant Cymru Creations , a local film company that help young people to produce great film and learn a brilliant trade . what more can the Secretary of State do to support small and medium - sized enterprise in this sector ? it be vital that we get behind they . I thank my hon . friend for his role in help to fly the flag for the british film industry . I also join he in pay tribute to the work of the BFI , and particularly to Ben Roberts and Harriet Finney , who have do extraordinary work for the film industry and for our country . I share my hon . friend ' s sentiment about sme . the measure announce will be a huge boost to sme , but this Government be aware that there be more that we can do . as we continue to build this exciting agenda with the british film industry , we will continue to talk to it and to make sure that we be meet the need of sme from the length and breadth of the country . I welcome the statement , but do the Secretary of State recognise that investment in the film industry depend on confidence and certainty , not least in the copyright protection regime ? will she make it clear that the Government do not intend to extend copyright exception to text and data mining ? that would damage both the creative and the publishing industry massively . I thank the right hon . gentleman for all the work he have do over many year to support and champion the creative industry and to challenge successive government , as I know he will challenge we — sadly — on these issue . I agree that investment depend on confidence and certainty . that be one of the reason why we introduce this measure now , rather than wait a few more week until the spending review : we hear the message loud and clear from the film industry that the long it face further delay , the less investment it would be able to attract . I note the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about the copyright protection regime . in the Government ' s view , artificial intelligence present significant opportunity , but it also pose serious challenge for creative industry . I be delighted to say that our Minister of State — my hon . friend the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism — be also a Minister of State at the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , and he be work at pace to try to resolve these issue . I thank the Secretary of State for her announcement . the film industry and creative art more generally play an important role in constituency such as mine . not only do the art grow and boost our economy and enrich our community , but they help to close the opportunity gap in our society by inspire future talent . will the Secretary of State assure I that she will continue to support the entire creative industry with initiative such as the one she have announce across all our region and nation , so that my constituent can take up the opportunity to become the next generation of Welsh film and tv talent ? I have not have the opportunity to welcome my hon . friend to his place formally , but I be glad to see he as the new Member of Parliament for Cardiff West . he will know that his predecessor , Kevin Brennan , be an amazing champion for the creative industry and for the music industry in particular . we miss he dearly , but I know that my hon . friend will be a worthy successor ; he have already prove himself to be such . Cardiff be an incredible hub of creativity . cardiff ' s film studio , among other , be show exactly what can be do , and this Government be absolutely determined to do everything we can to support this incredible industry . as I say to my hon . friend the Member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) , that include make sure that young people grow up in Cardiff have the opportunity to make a career in the creative industry . who know ? the next Steve McQueen , Gurinder Chadha or Danny Boyle could be wait right now . this Government be determined to unlock those opportunity for the next generation . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . bray Studios in my constituency have produce some fantastic piece , such as " the Rocky Horror Picture Show " — take a step to the left . [ laughter . ] it also produce " Alien " and , more recently , " Rocketman " . however , the creative industry be cry out for support . cost and funding be key issue face they , and another be skill . the Secretary of State confirm in her statement that the Government be overhaul the apprenticeship levy , but be she confident that the reform will fully suit the need of the creative industry , give the 25 , 000 vacancy in the sector ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question — he give my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) the opportunity to make the bad joke I have hear from he in at least a few hour . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the important issue of skill . we be focus on it because we have hear loud and clear from the creative industry that it be the brake on an industry that be otherwise grow much fast than other part of the economy . as well as our work on the apprenticeship levy , to which he refer , we have already kick - start the curriculum review to put art , sport , music and creativity back at the heart of our classroom , where they belong . we be about to launch a piece of work look at art across the whole country , to make sure we get our offer right in community . on the specific question about the apprenticeship levy , we be confident that we be make the right reform , because we be work with industry — not just the big player in the industry for which the apprenticeship levy work well , but the small organisation that need far more flexibility in the levy than be currently on offer . we be confident that the work that I , the Education Secretary and other be do in conjunction with the industry be go to get that right . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to the UK ' s film and creative industry and their commitment to grow our economy , job and skill across every corner of our nation . London ' s most iconic borough , Croydon , provide an amazing UK filming backdrop . what more can be do to promote Croydon as a filming location ? have visit Croydon , I would say that it promote itself . I also know that my hon . friend will be an incredible champion for her community ; she be already prove it by singe the virtue of Croydon . all the many film maker and film studio that have welcome this announcement with open arm will have hear loud and clear what she have to say about the benefit of Croydon and will hear what she have to say in the future . I be sure that Croydon and the young people my hon . friend represent will be part of the success story of this next chapter of our national story . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . one of this sector ' s real challenge , as she rightly point out , be skill . so many of those work in the sector be freelance . will the Secretary of State give some thought to how we can get some of the large player to act as incubator to bring through more talent and support , as they have the full breadth of resource that be need ? I recognise the challenge that the right hon . Gentleman lay down . the freelance sector represent 50 % of the creative industry , and we be alive to the need to protect flexibility in the industry while ensure that people be treat and pay well and that there be the incubation and talent pipeline that he mention . the independent film sector be crucial to that . I mention three film director , all of whom come up through the independent film sector . some of our great work have be produce there , and the people involve have go on to produce blockbuster . the right hon . Gentleman be right to say that there be big player in the sector , some of whom be do an incredible job , but by do so , they prove that other could do more . my constituency be not just a great backdrop for film ; it be home to the Edinburgh international film festival , the long - run film festival in the world . give the critical role of film festival in the film ecosystem , particularly in give independent film a platform , do the Secretary of State agree that this announcement be good news for film festival , too , and moreover that it be an example of the new Labour Government deliver for Edinburgh ? I congratulate my hon . friend on his debate yesterday on the Edinburgh film festival . I know that he will be an incredible champion for the creativity of his city . it be a pleasure to meet he there several month ago to see the work that he and new colleague have already start to do to boost and protect it in quite challenging economic circumstance . when I visit Edinburgh over the summer , I meet my counterpart in the Scottish Government . we be seek a far more constructive and adult relationship with the Scottish Government than exist under the previous Government , and a far more direct relationship with the scottish cultural sector . we be the UK Government , and scottish culture be one of the rich export and most incredible crown jewel in the whole UK cultural landscape . we be determined to have a far more systematic and sustained relationship with the sector there to support it . the Secretary of State will understand that the boundary between film , cinema , e - sports and gaming be increasingly diffuse , but what they have in common be digital , and the need for digital skill . do she agree that the local skill improvement fund have be crucial in develop digital skill across the country ? will she commend the work of Trowbridge college ' s " Tech Trowbridge " initiative in its digital skill centre , which have be facilitate by that fund , and do she hope , as I do , that it will continue to be generous ? she be very welcome to visit Trowbridge at any time and see the excellent work that we be do to advance digital and its contribution to the media industry , particularly around e - sport and gaming . I hear the pitch for Trowbridge loud and clear . the right hon . Gentleman can consider that to be duly note by those of we on the Government Benches . he be right about digital skill and that the boundary between some of the creative industry be increasingly blur as more of they find themselves online . our Government be commit to introduce a digital inclusion strategy , which we will produce shortly with a strong emphasis on digital skill . this country have be without a digital inclusion strategy for 10 year , and during that time other country have leap ahead of we . we be determined that that will no long be the case . I very much hope that the great work go on in his constituency will be at the centre of it . I welcome very much today ' s statement and the move to increase the number of film studio . the independent sector have the ability not just to tell our diverse story but to transform the workforce and create a more diverse one . I have the great privilege for much of my working career to represent freelancer in Bectu and to represent the creative industry union . what message do my right hon . friend have for Bectu , the Musicians ' Union and Equity , which do tremendous work in this area , as well as young people in my constituency look to join the film industry , to tell they that this will create not just more job but a more diverse set of job in all part of the country ? I , too , pay tribute to the union who work in this field . I have hold discussion with Bectu and the Musicians ' Union in recent week , and I be very grateful for their insight and expertise and all their work to support our amazing creative workforce . I recognise the challenge that my hon . friend lay out , particularly over the course of the strike , which many worker and studio find very difficult . our Government be very aware of that , especially come off the back of a global pandemic , which pose major challenge for the industry . we be aware that the situation of many worker and institution in the creative industry be extremely fragile , and we be commit to work hand in glove with our union to resolve that . Berkshire be the Hollywood of the United Kingdom , and I be proud that Wokingham contribute to its success , whether it be on stage of the Arborfield Film Studios or through my constituent commute to Shinfield Studios . today ' s announcement be a very welcome step and great support for our independent film industry , which be crucial to our local economy . will the Secretary of State confirm when the guidance on business rate tax relief will be publish ? I do not think it have be say in this House that Berkshire be the Hollywood of the United Kingdom , but I will take his word for it , and I look forward to visit at some point . he be right to raise the guidance on business rate , which we be aware be a press issue . I be afraid that I can not give he a date today , but it be at the top of our agenda and will be forthcoming . I warmly welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . do she agree that it be vital that our creative skill pathway reach coastal community , so that talented young people in constituency such as mine have access to training and the opportunity to help fill the creative skill gap ? my hon . friend be right , and she be a fantastic champion for Scarborough and Whitby . our coastal community have so much to offer this country . they have offer so much in the past when it come to tourism , music and nightlife . I be privileged to go with my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) to see the incredible work go on in that coastal community , to help to develop the incredible creative pipeline of talent that come out of community like his and hers . we be committed to ensure that coastal community that have play such an important part in our cultural life for generation and mean so much to so many family in the UK , include my own , be at the centre of our new renaissance . as a very former independent producer who once cast a Culture Secretary in a film , I can say that confirmation of the tax relief be welcome . close to home , North Norfolk have a blossoming film industry . I be sure the right hon . Lady will be aware of the film " Alpha Papa " , where Alan Partridge meet his fate on cromer pier . however , lack of rural transport make it hard for young creative to live and work in my constituency . can she tell I what discussion she have have with her colleague at the Department for Transport about ensure that job in this exciting industry be accessible for all ? I thank he genuinely for that question on such an important issue . I have already hold discussion with the Transport Secretary about young people have issue access art , sport , music and creativity in their community because of transport challenge . I recognise exactly what he say from my own constituency in Wigan , which be for the most part very rural . he be right to raise the impact that the lack of rural transport have on employment and the industry . I will commit to take that away and talk to the Transport Secretary to resolve it . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to support our film and creative industry in all part of the country . my constituency support the full life cycle of our film industry , from our university that train our technician , producer and actor to the world - lead post - production company that provide visual effect work for big budget film and tv production . what more can be do to boost investment in job in the creative industry in Bournemouth and the south - west ? my hon . friend do a very good job of singe the virtue of Bournemouth , and our Government be very aware of that . university be incredibly important to our plan to put rocket booster under the creative industry . only yesterday I be at Pinewood Studios . its partnership with the local university be introduce young people to skill and opportunity that some of they tell I yesterday they would never have dream of . I meet a young woman who be undertake a course ; she have have a dream to work in the creative industry , film in particular , since she watch " Mrs . doubtfire " as a child and see the amazing work that could be do through hair , make - up , and prosthetic . that give we an idea of the enormous ecosystem of good , skilled job out there in the creative industry if we get this right . we be absolutely determined to make that happen . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and for her clear energy and enthusiasm , which be incredibly infectious . I think we be all enthuse about become an actor — I do not know whether that be possible for I , but that be by the way . it be no secret that Northern Ireland have produce some incredible film over the past couple of year , include " Belfast " and " an Irish Goodbye " , where scene be film in Saintfield , formerly in my constituency of Strangford . it be great to hear of the increase tax relief on production cost up to £ 15 million . can the Minister provide assurance that all the devolved region , include Northern Ireland , will feel the full effect of the tax relief in order to help our film industry ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word — he get so enthusiastic that he be not speak at the end of the session for once , which be very unsettling . I really appreciate what he say , and I reassure he that for every independent film that be make , this announcement will put £ 6 . 36 million in additional revenue on their budget . as many independent film maker tell I yesterday , that mean that they be able to de - risk their project and attract far more private investment to support they to make the film that they want to make . there be film that have already be give the go - ahead because they know that this announcement be come and because we have lay the legislation today . and on a personal note , I be very well aware of what Northern Ireland can offer the people of the United Kingdom , because " Derry Girls " be my favourite tv show , bar none . the film industry be worth £ 850 , 000 to Calderdale last year alone , from Marvel to " Happy Valley " , and I think it be obvious what the real Hollywood of the UK be — there be only one " collywood " . do the Secretary of State agree that the film industry must be part of develop our economy outside London , and will she work with I to make sure that we attract more brilliant film and tv project to Calderdale and beyond ? if my hon . friend have even come up with a name , I say with sadness to the hon . member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) that I think my hon . friend be currently win this war . I recognise what he say about Calderdale , not least because I have visit it with he and I have see the huge benefit that film and tv have bring to his constituency , and the amazing talent that it have be able to showcase . I think about show like " Happy Valley " and not just the incredible backdrop that in his beautiful constituency , but the amazing woman writer that it bring to the fore and great actress like Sarah Lancashire . it really do show the good of what our country and the north of England have to offer , and my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for they . I welcome the statement , just as I welcome the cross - party consensus on the brilliance of the Paddington film . here I would like to declare a family interest : my wife ' s cousin , Rosie Alison , be the executive producer of those amazing Paddington film . and the House will not have long to wait : " Paddington 3 " be come out on 8 November . as far as Rochdale be concern , it be a fantastic location for filming , whether that be our magnificent town hall , our moorland or Hollingworth lake , where the recent BBC tv series " the Jetty " be film . Rochdale Development Agency be currently explore set up a rochdale film office . do my right hon . friend agree that this new tax break may well encourage that development ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question , and can I convey my thank to his wife ' s cousin for her role in british cultural life and perhaps put in a plea for a cameo in " Paddington 4 " ? [ interruption . ] I be not sure — that might be an abuse of the Dispatch Box . the work that be happen in Rochdale be incredibly exciting . it show that it need not just be our major city that play a central part in our cultural life . town like his and mine and many of the town and village represent by member from across our country , on all of our Benches , have make an incredible contribution to this country ' s cultural life . we be absolutely determined that they will continue to do so . I welcome the announcement today and , in particular , the opportunity to capitalise further investment in new facility . in my constituency , on the bank of the River Wear , there be the opportunity to develop Crown work Studios , with 19 new sound stage and £ 450 million of international investment . will the Secretary of State work with I to think about how we build on today ' s announcement and use it not just to safeguard exist facility , but build new facility in the like of the north - east ? we have already hold discussion with the film industry to talk about what more major studio can do to help to create the supply chain that support initiative like the fantastic work in my hon . friend ' s constituency . we absolutely commit as a new government and as a ministerial team to engage fully with he to ensure that we unlock the true potential of the whole country and that we put rocket booster under not just the exist infrastructure , but the new , exciting project that be emerge across the country . there be cross - party support for Paddington and for Berkshire be the Hollywood of the UK . last week , other Berkshire mp and I visit Shinfield Studios , a new state - of - the - art film studio in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) . we hear there how important skill be to promote further growth across Berkshire , so I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment on skill today . do she agree that get the right support in place for skill be vital for ensure growth for Berkshire ' s film industry and vital for secure the chance for my constituent in Bracknell to access the great opportunity that this industry have to offer ? absolutely , and my hon . friend be right that as well as the amazing investment that we be see flow into the United Kingdom , which be open up opportunity for good job and investment , we also need to make sure that people in every part of our country can benefit from those . I recently meet Steven Knight from " Peaky Blinders " , who be run an incredible project in Birmingham : he be set up a film studio and recruit 20 % of the local workforce from the five most deprived postcode in Birmingham . he be do that because not only be it the right thing to do , but it make good business sense , because have a good , local , skilled workforce be a significant attraction for overseas investor when they choose where to invest . we think that we could draw on that model in other part of the country , and I look forward to work with my hon . friend to make sure that Berkshire feel the full benefit of that . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement to support this vital sector . the cornish creative industry be a vital part of the cornish economy , and we have a burgeon independent cornish language film industry , lead by the remarkable work of our own Mark Jenkin , but it need careful nurturing and support in line with cornish national minority status . I invite the Secretary of State to come to Cornwall to meet the industry and to understand why our cornish language film industry be so important . I thank my hon . friend for draw attention to the fact that the country be far strong for the rich cultural inheritance and diversity we have in its different part . I be a huge proponent of devolution , as be our government , and one reason why be that we know that we be strong for our difference across the country and not weaken by they . that be why I say early on , when I take on this job , that we want to see an end to politically drive culture war . this country be strong when we come together and celebrate our rich diversity , so I be pleased to say that I accept my hon . friend ' s invitation . the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism will meet he and visit his constituency to see the work that be be do . I be very strike by the phrase " careful nurturing " , which my hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) use . I think he speak for many member on both side of the House when we talk about the creative industry . the work that we be develop be exciting and vibrant , but it be also very fragile . we need to make sure that we work to carefully nurture it so that we can unlock its true potential , and this Government stand right behind he in help to do that . I also welcome this fantastic statement . the creative industry as a whole , but the film industry in particular , punch above their weight internationally . the Secretary of State mention Steve McQueen , who famously speak about the challenge that he face as a young black man to succeed in the industry , and the support that he have to get from other , include Denzel Washington . what can we do to ensure not just that there be geographical equality , but that there be well equality in the sector as a whole , particularly for deprived and ethnic minority community and our young people ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that issue , because it be something that we on the Government Benches be very exercised about . for far too long , not only have the creative industry be largely concentrated in one part of the country , but over the year it have become increasingly hard for the full range of talented people to see themselves represent in those industry ; to break into they and have opportunity . I think , for instance , of our former colleague Glenda Jackson . what route would there be for she today ? that be a question that our Government absolutely must be able to answer . we have already start some of the necessary work . we have be talk to some of the big institution that have a central role to play , and I have be strike by the great work that be go on , which we could extend . the Royal Shakespeare Company be visit school throughout the country , particularly in deprive area or area where there be a low cultural offer , to boost confidence and employability , open up young people ' s option , and help they not just to have dream — they all have dream — but to have a plan to get there . that be the intention of our government , and I would be delighted to work with my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) to achieve it . this be great news for my region in the west midland — bostin news , in fact — and , in particular , for special place such as Ironbridge Gorge , a world heritage site in my constituency . may we have a commitment from the Secretary of State that , across the Department , attraction such as the live museum at Blists Hill will be protect so that filming can take place there for many year to come ? notwithstanding the rivalry that be go on in the Chamber today , my hon . friend have a genuine claim to represent one of the country ' s cultural hub . we be well aware of the challenge that he and his constituent be face in attempt to preserve that cultural offer — we be absolutely on the case — and I look forward to work with he to ensure that we protect it for generation to come . I , too , welcome the statement . last week I have the pleasure of open a state - of - the - art medium suite at Basingstoke College of Technology , which use high - tech facility similar to those employ in " Star Wars " . I be afraid I must inform my colleague that , although it be near Berkshire , the Hollywood of the UK be actually in Hampshire . do my right hon . friend agree with I about the importance of invest in such facility in order to ensure that we can provide the necessary education and skill for those who want to go into the industry in future ? perhaps one of her Ministers could visit the college to meet the student who be learn with the aid of those brand - new high - tech facility . I must say to my hon . friend that he would have make a much more compelling case for his constituency be the Hollywood of the UK have he come here dress as a stormtrooper . he might consider that next time . as for education and skill , I very much agree with he , but we be acutely aware that in some part of the country the opportunity for young people to gain work experience , to benefit from mentor , and to meet the people who do these job and therefore believe that they or someone like they could go on to do they as well be very limited . we be look into what we can do about that . my hon . friend be right to raise the subject of acting , but it be not just a question of acting ; it be a question of the range of job that the creative industry support — job that a young person like I would never have dream of go into , because we simply would not have know about they . I want to ensure that we break that cycle , and that the next generation know there be no limit to what they can achieve with the help of this Labour Government . renter ' right Bill Second read I inform the House that the reason amendment in the name of Kemi Badenoch have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I hope the entire House will agree that everyone should live in a decent , safe and affordable home . everyone should , but not everyone can . that be why , as Housing Secretary , I have put decency at the heart of my plan for housing , and take step to ensure that all home be warm and safe . nowhere be that more need than in the private rented sector , which play an undeniably critical role in our housing system . I want to be clear from the outset that this Government recognise the important role of landlord , most of whom provide good - quality home for their tenant . but this be a sector in serious need of reform . million of people live in fear of section 21 no - fault eviction that could uproot they from their home and community , and they be force to live in home that be riddle with damp and mould , too scared to complain in case they end up be evict and homelessness , and know that another potential tenant will be desperate enough to move in . during the general election campaign — a stressful time indeed — I be serve with a section 21 notice . thankfully , my family support I , but such support be not available to everyone . do my right hon . friend agree that end no - fault eviction will give british family the peace and stability that they desperately need ? I thank my hon . friend for give we the benefit of his personal experience — an experience that be suffer by far too many family . hundred of thousand of young family be in temporary accommodation , in many case because of section 21 . in 2019 the ending of this scandalous practice be include in the previous Government ' s manifesto , but we be still wait . it have take we just four month to bring the Bill to the House , because we feel that the need for it be critical . too many young people be price out of leave home , unable to move to the big city where they could start their career because of sky - high rent , and that too must change — I know that many hon . member agree . the Conservatives promise to pass a renter reform Bill in their 2019 manifesto , but , in a desperate attempt to placate their Back Benchers , they cave in to vest interest , leave tenant at the continued mercy of unfair section 21 eviction notice . they dither , delay and make excuse after excuse for their inaction . what have be the human cost of that failure ? since 2019 , when the Conservatives first promise action , more than 100 , 000 household have face a no - fault eviction , with 26 , 000 face eviction last year alone . too many family face homelessness ; too many family price out of a safe and secure home ; and too many family stick in cold , rot , damp home — that be the inheritance that we need to fix . I thank my right hon . friend for pursue renter ' right in this way . do she agree with the Mayor of London that we should consider set cap for rent increase ? I will set out later in my speech what we be do to ensure that renter get a fair deal . this be why we have move so speedily in get this Bill to its Second Reading . we will not take another four year , which be why we have do it in less than four month . I must give credit where it be due , because many part of the Bill build on the good work of my predecessor in the Department . however , let I be clear that this be a fundamentally different bill ; it go above and beyond the last government ' s Bill in several critical way . this be not just a renter reform Bill ; it be a Renters ' Rights Bill , a plan to ensure that all private tenant can aspire to a decent , affordable and safe home . change tenant involve significant expense for both tenant and landlord — my interest can be find in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — and the ability of a tenant to end a tenancy after two month present a significant risk to the landlord , particularly in the student rental market , where re - let a property within the academic year can present a considerable difficulty . will the Secretary of State at least consider amendment in Committee to address that issue ? I say to the right hon . Gentleman , whose intervention be normally more pithy , that the Bill accommodate the unique circumstance of student . I hope he can see that we be try to strike a balance . I be sure that his entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests prove that he be one of those landlord I would like to commend for be decent landlord . we want to ensure that the standard that I be sure he give to his tenant be apply across the whole country . many right hon . and hon . member will have hear heartbreaking story from constituent who have be force to leave their home with little or no justification . this Government will remove the threat of arbitrary eviction by finally bring to an end no - fault eviction . unlike the previous Government , who put in place last - minute caveat , we will abolish no - fault eviction for new and exist tenancy at the same time , to give all tenant the same security immediately . in Maltby in my constituency , the campaign group Big Power for Little London have be campaign to end no - fault eviction for year , because the community have suffer as a result of rogue landlord . I be very grateful to the Housing Minister , who be sit next to the Secretary of State , for agree to meet the group later this year . do my right hon . friend agree that this Bill will be welcome by the thousand of campaigner across the country who have fight so long for this important change ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . I , too , pay tribute to the Housing Minister for the work that he do in opposition and in get we here today . in say that we need to end the cruel practice of no - fault eviction , I recognise the huge pressure on the court system as a whole , which have be cause by year of Tory failure and neglect . to support the change , we will digitise the county court possession process , work closely with colleague in the Ministry of Justice to create a modern , efficient service for our court . we will also take step to ensure that , wherever possible , dispute will be resolve at an early stage , and the new private rent sector landlord ombudsman service that the Bill introduce will play a vital supportive role . I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister to her place . do she agree that no - fault eviction be bad not only for tenant but for local council , which across the country spend billion of pound on temporary accommodation ? it cause havoc for child and the education system , as young people have to go from one school to another . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , and I pay tribute to he for the work that he do in local government before come to this place . he will know about the direct impact of this issue , as will many member of this House . it be not just about have a home ; no - fault eviction have an effect on child , and on a person ' s life , job , income and everything else that they want to do . that be why it be so important that , whereas the previous Government make no progress in four year , we be now at this stage of the Bill after four month and we intend to continue at speed . I warmly welcome the Bill . it be right that we should regulate to avoid bad practice in the sector , but do the Secretary of State agree that measure should be available to enable , and indeed incentivise , good practice ? give that the previous Government give million of pound to holiday homeowner in various tax incentive to encourage that sector , surely there must be method by which the Government can incentivise good practice . otherwise , the Bill might become counterproductive . I thank the hon . member for his comment . I hope that he recognise from my opening remark that good landlord have nothing to fear from this Bill , and we will help they . the new database will help landlord to understand and meet their legal duty , and we will provide clear guidance . I will talk more about how that database will work . part 1 of the Bill will introduce a new , modern tenancy system that remove fix - term tenancy , mean that tenant can stay in their home until they decide to end the tenancy , and they will only need to give two month ' notice . this will end the injustice for tenant who want or need to leave at short notice but can not , and allow both landlord and tenant the flexibility to respond to change in their circumstance . I want to make it clear that our Bill ensure that landlord will still be able to reclaim their property when they legitimately need to , through clear and robust possession ground . we have also consider the unique situation of student accommodation and specialist sector such as stepping - stone accommodation , for which the Bill also include a possession ground . in most case , tenant will have four month ' notice , so that there be time to find a new home , and landlord will have to wait a year from the beginning of a tenancy before they can use the " move in and sell " ground for eviction . this honour our commitment to level the play field decisively for renter , which go far than the last government ' s ambition . of course , landlord will still be able to quickly evict tenant who engage in antisocial behaviour and make other people ' s live a misery , to protect the strong community that we want to see flourish around the country . the Bill will also empower tenant to challenge unfair rent increase that be design to drive they out . it will prevent tenant from be bind by rent review clause , put they in a strong position to challenge unreasonable rent hike at tribunal . I welcome most of what be in this Bill . a third of my constituent live in the private rent sector . the last time I look , there be hardly any available property to rent in my constituency that be within the local housing allowance . the level of rent be astronomical , unaffordable and drive working - class community out of inner - city area . do the Secretary of State not agree that the Bill need to go far and bring in rent control , so that housing be available for all people ? I understand the right hon . Gentleman ' s point , but I disagree on how to resolve the issue . rent control restrict housing supply , which do not help anyone , but our Bill take practical measure to help renter by empower tenant to tackle unreasonable rent hike and prohibit unfair rental bidding , and we will continue to assess potential action on sky - high rent . hopefully , we be take measure that will help his constituent and other across the country . could my right hon . friend clarify whether , under the Bill , landlord and let agent will be prevent from require individual who do not have all the correct support information to pay excessive deposit , which prohibit people from get secure property for their family ? my hon . friend make a really important point about deposit and pay rent in advance . this Bill will protect tenant from request for large amount of rent in advance , but we be in listen mode . we will keep this issue under review during the passage of the Bill , and we will take the necessary action . we think that we have do enough on that , but we be open to intervention , if people feel that they would help . unlike in the previous Government ' s Bill , the tribunal will not be able to increase rent above what be originally propose by the landlord . in case of undue hardship , we will give the tribunal the power to defer rent increase by up to two month , thereby finally end the injustice of economic eviction . however , that be not all we will do to tackle unfair rent cost . we remain committed to end rental bidding war , which all too often price hard - work family out of a home . landlord and let agent will be require to publish an ask rent for their property , and will not be allow to ask for , encourage or accept a high offer . we be deliver real change for work people . the challenge face by tenant in the private sector be very real , but be the right hon . Lady familiar with the law of unintended consequence ? what have she and her official learn from the study of the application of similar rule in Scotland , which have make the plight of renter bad , not well ? I do not accept that from the hon . member . we have have scare story about this before . as I have say , the majority of landlord be do the right thing . the Bill be about fairness for landlord and tenant , and I think it strike the right balance . I be acutely aware of the law of unintended consequence . in fairness , the previous Government be bat around these idea for year , after promise in their manifesto to tackle the issue , but they let down the people who be in these situation , who deserve well from their government . this government will do well than the previous Government . as I set out at the start of my speech , tackle the blight of poor - quality home be a priority of mine and of this Government . that be why part 3 of the Bill will apply a decent home standard to the sector for the first time , require privately rent home to be safe , secure and free from hazard . my right hon . friend will be aware that the Darzi report last month highlight the severe problem of damp and mould , particularly in the private sector , and the bitter impact of that , notably on child ' s health . over a third of my constituent in Chelsea and Fulham live in privately rent home , and in Fulham the council have have to chase landlord 74 time in the past year alone to address damp and mould . it be tremendous that the Government be tackle this , and I know that my constituent will be delighted . may I ask she to ensure that council be resource sufficiently to exercise the strong investigatory and enforcement power that the Bill provide ? we be extend ring - fence extra resource to council , because we recognise the need to do that . I want to pick up on my hon . friend ' s comment on child ' s health . this Bill will also make good on our promise to extend Awaab ' s law to the private sector . when I meet Awaab ' s family recently , I make a commitment to put safety first , and it be an honour to pay tribute to Awaab ' s legacy , and to his parent ' resolute campaigning for meaningful change for the many thousand of family live in unfit home . I hope that no family ever have to endure what that family have to . it be an utter tragedy and a source of national shame that the two - year - old toddler Awaab Ishak die of a respiratory disease cause by extensive mould in his family ' s flat . I be delighted that this protection will be offer in the private rent sector . will my right hon . friend make sure that the private rent sector uphold its obligation to all its tenant in future ? absolutely ; I thank my hon . friend for that comment . that have be at the forefront of our mind , and not just in our work on this Bill . hon . member will recall that it be only a few week since we have the report on phase 2 of the Grenfell inquiry , so when we talk about provide housing , it be at the forefront of my mind that house have to be safe for people . it be absolutely scandalous that here in Britain at the moment we can not guarantee that , and I will do everything I can as Secretary of State to fix that problem . talk about family more widely , we will also end the abhorrent practice of deny a family a home purely because they receive benefit or have child , by make it illegal for landlord and let agent to discriminate against tenant on that basis . this Bill be about social justice and fairness for all . I thank my right hon . friend on behalf of the many family in Walthamstow who have be in exactly that position . one of the thing that drive my constituent mad be have to move repeatedly because of rent increase that they can not afford , because it mean that their good credit rating stop and start , which make it hard for they to get on the housing ladder . what more can we do to tackle this discrimination against tenant and give they a chance of own a home in the future , by tackle this basic issue of credit rating , perhaps with a good credit passport ? this be a wide issue to do with the poverty trap that so many people face this country . I be also proud to plug the employment Bill that will be come forward this week . it be another incredibly important part of this Government ' s agenda ; the Prime Minister mention it early today . we want to make sure that the work people of this country feel well off , and be able to get on and do the thing in life that we should expect anyone to be able to do — thing that we be able to do as a result of the toil of the generation before we . I want to talk database . part 2 of the Bill will introduce a new online private rent sector database , to the benefit of landlord and tenant alike . landlord will need to provide key information about the property they let out , include around property standard and compliance with the law , help tenant to understand more about the property and the landlord who they be look to rent from . energy efficiency be really important in the rent housing sector , so do the Secretary of State agree that it be important that the Bill ensure that landlord upgrade their rent property to an energy performance certificate grade C or above by 2028 ? I agree that we should be move towards do everything we possibly can to be efficient , and there will be consultation on that issue . one of the thing that shock I in bring this Bill forward be that the standard be so low for some ; we need to really ramp they up . the bottom line for I in bring this Bill forward be that people should have safe , secure home that be free from hazard . we can then build on that . we be do much more as a Government on our ambition to do that , work with landlord . the database , alongside great guidance and support from the Government , will also help landlord to understand and meet their legal duty . good landlord should be support and help . in addition , the database will provide local authority with the information that they need in their enforcement activity to drive out rogue landlord . in this Bill , I have also take step to support local government in its crucial role in keep tenant safe and root out bad actor from the sector . that be why , as well as set up the database , the Bill will give local authority strong power to root out and punish the small number of landlord who deliberately flout the law , and will increase the maximum civil penalty , so that we punish offender and further support local authority . where I previously live , there be a huge number of illegal house in multiple occupation . those resident be potentially not protect by this legislation . in give local authority more enforcement power against rogue landlord , how exactly will we define a rogue landlord , and protect people who will potentially be off the radar ? there be separate rule for HMOs , but we be also extend ringfenced civil penalty to support council more , because we need to make sure that there be enforcement . a database will be important when we be look at what we face , and also in make sure that we can take action . the problem be not every landlord . Most landlord act in a reasonable way , but we need to make sure that action be take against those who do not . we recognise the important role that tenant play in hold their landlord to account , and we want to incentivise they to do so . that be why we have significantly strengthen rent repayment order . to empower tenant to take direct action against unscrupulous landlord , the Bill will add new rent payment order offence , double the maximum penalty for offence , and ensure that offender will more often pay the maximum penalty . when landlord break the rule , tenant must have recourse to action . finally , I want to mention pet . it be a shame the Speaker be not here , because this be my bit for he ! our reform be aim squarely at improve the life of people and family , but I trust that right hon . and hon . member will agree that pet be not just animal but family . that be why this Bill will make it easy for tenant to request the ability to have a pet in their home . it will also allow landlord to require insurance cover pet damage , so that everyone be cover and no one be leave unfairly out of pocket . it be important that this legislation balance the right of both tenant and landlord . we all know the benefit of pet ownership to our physical and mental health , and indeed to the animal . I very much welcome the fact that clause 10 and 11 will allow pet ownership in tenancy , but can the Secretary of State reassure the House that those clause will allow responsible pet owner to ask to keep pet in their property while ensure that landlord be insure in case of property damage cause inadvertently , or perhaps advertently , by pet ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that there be a balance to be strike . we be ensure that landlord be protect with insurance . it be about reasonableness — so long as it be not an antisocial parrot that speak all night , I be sure everyone will agree that this be a good thing . the Bill will finally address the insecurity and injustice that far too many renter experience . we value the contribution make by responsible landlord who provide quality home to their tenant , but there be no place for unscrupulous landlord who tarnish the reputation of the entire sector by seek to exploit or discriminate against tenant . this Government be elect with a mandate to deliver change , and this Bill be the first of many with which we will honour our promise to the people . after the last Government fail to legislate for renter ’ right in five year , we have introduce this Bill within our first 100 day in office . this will change the life of million of people , so for they , and for future generation , I commend this Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . it be a privilege to open for the Opposition on Second Reading of the Renters ' right Bill in this momentous week . as the Secretary of State mention , Labour reach 100 day in office this week , for which it be to be congratulate , as not everyone get to 100 day — Sue Gray didn ' t . [ hon . member : " Liz Truss didn ' t ! " ] neither do Sue Gray . the point be that not everyone get to 100 day , so we congratulate the Government . so far , the only real action we have see be the noisy infighting and chaos that result in the hurried reset we see over the weekend — oh dear . this Renters ' right Bill will only add to the chaos . the first time the Secretary of State and I face each other across the Dispatch Box , I warn she that she be be stitch up by the Prime Minister and the Chancellor . I also tell she that we be here to help , and we be , especially as it have be a particularly rough time to be a woman in the Labour party . it be not just the sacking of Sue Gray — she be soon to be award what Winston Churchill call a " disapeerage " — as the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) have take the brave decision to leave the Labour party . I have follow the hon . Lady ' s career in this place closely and , although we do not agree on everything , she be very brave . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . this be Second reading of the Renters ' Rights Bill , and the shadow Secretary of State be all over the place . I be sure the shadow Secretary of State will come back to that subject . I be still on that subject , Madam Deputy Speaker . as I be say , the hon . member for Canterbury take the brave decision to leave the Labour party . I have follow her career in this place closely and , although we do not agree on everything , she be very brave . perhaps the Secretary of State will feel nervous as she introduce the Bill , because I know that her Department be already break promise of its own . it promise a new national planning policy framework within 100 day , yet there be no new framework . there be just a consultation , as I predict during our last debate on this subject . to be fair , the Department have finally produce this Renters ' right Bill , after copy and paste quite a lot of our Bill , but it be still not ready . the truth be that it can not fix the rental market by tie it in knot with further intervention and directive . the simple truth be that this Bill will not work and the proposal will fail . we know the Bill will fail because this approach have be try in Scotland by those great expert in failure , the Scottish National party . research by Indigo House , the housing expert , have find that none of the scottish legislation since 2017 have protect the majority of private residential tenant against excessive rent increase or high advertise market rent . it have discover that tenant have find it more difficult to find a home , and that there be a particularly negative impact on those in great need , include homeless household and those with less economic power , such as those claim welfare benefit . my right hon . friend be make a powerful speech on an important subject . be she familiar with this week ' s report from Scotland ' s Housing Network reveal that 16 % of landlord be reduce their supply , and fully 12 % be consider leave the sector over precisely this sort of attempt to over - regulate what would otherwise be a free market ? I have not see that specific report , but I have see other that indicate that this be happen . we have to be careful . I appreciate that the Government want to make rent more secure and affordable , and we want to do that too , but this Bill will have the opposite effect , as we have see in Scotland . as this government will find out over the course of this Parliament , they can not buck the market . do the Secretary of State recall why the previous Government fail to introduce such measure , as they intend ? yes , I do recall . the reason why our Bill do not get through be that we recognise its flaw . that be what I mean when I say that I worry about the Secretary of State , because the bright young thing in Downing Street who have send she out with this Bill do not care if it fail . they will take the credit today , but she will get the blame tomorrow , and tenant will get bad regulation , shortage and high price , as we have see in Scotland . those high price will be pay by tenant , especially young people and the less well off . be it not the case that , as the country will see from the right hon . Lady ' s speech , tenant in the private rent sector will fear the return of the conservative party , in the same way as mum who rely on maternity pay ? that question be nonsense . my point be that tenant will not be able to find property to rent in the first place . from that intervention , it seem that Labour still do not understand these concept . we worry that the high price will be pay by tenant , especially young people and the less well off . demand be rise in England , but availability be not keep up . forty - seven per cent . of landlord have either attempt to sell a property in 2023 or be think of do so , with the big reason be to their fear of new law . Penrith and Solway contain the Lake District national park and other tourist area . do the right hon . Lady recognise that the previous Government ' s failure to introduce their promise reform to section 21 have lead to many private landlord move from the private rent sector into the holiday let market ? her reasoned amendment say the Bill will " reduce the supply of housing " — order . private landlord react to legislation , which be why we say that such legislation will reduce housing in the private rent sector . fifty - six per cent . of landlord cite our Renters ( Reform ) Bill as a factor in their decision to sell . we already recognise those flaw , and such a reduction in supply be bad for both tenant and landlord . we be lose home in the private rent sector . do the right hon . Lady recognise that the reduction in supply over the past few year be primarily down to the increase in interest rate , which have drive landlord out of the sector ? a sector that be fundamentally break require the Government to take action to provide security for those who need a home for themselves and their child . of course we want people to have security in home , but to do that we need to increase supply . we do what we could when we be in government , and we will help this government to deliver . the fact of the matter be that this legislation be not go to help . we would love it if it do — we try to make it work and we could not — but it would have a negative effect . landlord provide a vital service . the private rented sector be essential for those who can not yet afford a mortgage , for young people and for those who need to move for work . landlord sell and give up home for rent for mortgage do not help many of the people who need to rent . the overwhelming majority of landlord be responsible — I be glad the Secretary of State acknowledge that — and law abide , and they see their property as a sustainable long - term investment . the Government claim the Bill will reform the rental market . we do not believe it will — it will break it . respect for property right be not just an abstract principle . it underpin confidence in our economy and legal system . if the government do not protect property right , investment be damage . if investment be damage , growth be hit . it be painfully clear to anyone who understand market that the Bill will act as a powerful disincentive for anyone to rent out their property . Most tenant do not have friend and family to rent from and , unlike member of the Labour party , they do not have millionaire donor to put they up , so they will suffer most when supply go down and rent go up . if it be so patently obvious and it be such a fundamental principle of property right , why do everyone on the conservative Benches , include the right hon . Lady , stand on a manifesto commit to reform ? be it not the truth that rather than think such legislation would not work , the previous Government simply fail to deliver it , in common with many other thing ? there be a big difference between have a headline in a manifesto and see the detail , as many member on the Government Benches will soon find out . early on , their Prime Minister could not answer the question about whether the Government will increase taxis . campaigning be easy , but governing be hard . how be your campaign go ? we will find out soon enough . perhaps member on the Government Benches be oblivious to these cost and dynamic effect — listen to their intervention , it appear so . I note that no impact assessment for the Bill be available , an omission that have rightly draw criticism from the Regulatory Policy Committee . will the Secretary of State tell we whether an impact assessment have be undertake ? if it exist , where be it ? if it do not exist , why do the Government not ask for one ? I hope this be not how the Labour Government mean to go on . when I be in government , I provide impact assessment on all sort of complex legislation . I know that be difficult and can create argument , but I also know there be a lot more badly think out and costly regulation where this come from , and we on the Opposition Benches be worried . I know member on the Government Benches will want to point to the last Government ' s Renters ( Reform ) Bill — I have hear their intervention — but the fact be , that Bill be flawed . I be quite happy to say that , but at least it recognise the practical effect of its provision and would not have come into full effect until the court be ready . the then Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee warn in 2023 that the equivalent provision in the Renters ( Reform ) Bill create " a real risk that the current system will be overwhelm , and there will be a logjam with lengthy delay . " this Government be press ahead with measure that will cause gridlock in our justice system , and pit landlord and tenant against each other in protract litigation . it be absolutely extraordinary to hear strong opposition to every part of the Bill from the right hon . Lady , or be I mistaken ? be she oppose to the part of the Bill that will protect child from get breathing problem and end up be hospitalise ? be she against the protection the Bill introduce so that people can finally live in decent accommodation ? if she do not oppose those thing , why be she so relentlessly negative and — forgive I , as a new member — so relentlessly patronising ? I do not mean to be patronise , but it be quite difficult when there be very clear issue that have a precedent in Scotland . the question be not why I be be patronise ; the question be why the Government be ignore what have happen when these proposal have be try in another part of the UK . that be a serious problem . all of we here want the good for child and to see tenant do well . it be very wrong of the hon . Gentleman to ascribe negative motivation when we be point out problem with legislation . we on the Opposition Benches be do our job . we do not think the Bill will work . on that point , will the right hon . Lady give way ? I would like to make some progress . the Government be press ahead with measure that will cause gridlock in the justice system , which will create even more problem for tenant . the people the Government be try to help will not be able to get a home in the first place — none of we want to see that . we have to do well . on that point , will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will give way first to the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) . I thank the right hon . Lady for give way . some 25 % of conservative mp be landlord . do that have any bearing on the conservative party ' s position on the Bill ? we need to focus on the content of the Bill . if anyone have an issue with landlord in this House , it be Labour Members — I notice the hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) run away before the discussion about the Bill start . they should look at themselves , and the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells have well check his fellow member before ask that sort of question . as I be say , when the problem of protract litigation in the court be combine with the new , extended and highly convoluted notice requirement for recover a property where the tenant have not pay the rent , a landlord whose tenant be in arrear will face many month of uncertainty and cost . let I summarise in two word why the Bill will fail : unintended consequence . that be what we get when we start with policy rather than first principle . do the right hon . Lady think that there be already gridlock in the county court ? as of today , a landlord who secure a possession order will wait 12 week to get a bailiff ' s warrant . our court be gridlocke right now . that be an excellent point — we should not make the problem bad . we should start with first principle not policy , but there be no first principle here that will help the Bill get through . we want to help the Bill become legislation to deliver for tenant and landlord . however , as I have hear from the comment that have be make , this seem to be about the left be see to be tough on landlord and pass legislation with the right sounding title , rather than deliver real improvement to people ' s life . I hear the Secretary of State tease my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) , but it be hypocritical to criticise those of we in the House who declare our interest — we on the conservative Benches do that well — when a Labour MP be disgrace in the press for let out unsanitary home with mould . the Government should look at why they have member who be behave that way . we want a housing market that work for everyone — landlord , tenant and those who want to own their home . by attack those who rent out home , they will damage investment in new home . they will push landlord out of the market and drive up rent . that be bad for everyone . by pile on excessive regulation , they will push good landlord out and empower those bad landlord who simply ignore the rule . we need to look at enforcement of the rule we already have . we all agree that renter need a well deal , but this Bill be not go to work . it be not what renter need — we find that out and we want to help deliver a good Bill . if the Government want to help renter , they should drive up housing supply : so far , no sign of that . if the Government want to help renter , they need to reduce immigration : so far , no sign of that . some 80 % of recent migrant have move into the private rental sector , create a demand the sector can not cope with . if the Government want to help renter , they need to enforce exist rule against the bad landlord that do not look after their tenant , rather than create new rule that will make the problem bad . this legislation be typical of Labour in government . we have table a reason amendment because the Bill fail to fix the major issue and add yet more rule and regulation to keep the bureaucrat busy , rather than find solution to help those tenant who desperately need they . I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . may I start by thank the Minister for Housing and Planning , my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , for meet I over recess to discuss the Bill . I know that he will be close the debate later today . I be afraid that one consequence of the Government ' s prioritisation of this Bill be that , because my Committee have no member , I can not yet speak as its Chair , but I very much look forward to do so , and I thank the House for elect I to this important role . the Bill be of great importance to many people in my Vauxhall and Camberwell Green constituency and to million of renter across the country . too often they feel the sharp end of a market that be not work for they . they can suffer inflation - bust rent rise under the threat of eviction . they can end up wait far too long for repair to serious problem . datum from Shelter highlight the fact that almost one in three household in my constituency live in the private rent sector . in 2001 , the number of household in private rent accommodation be 8 , 129 . by 2021 , that figure have increase to more than 13 , 178 — a staggering 62 % increase in just 20 year . we have speak about affordability and rent increase . this issue be push so many people into debt and put they at risk of homelessness . accord to Shelter , the average monthly rent in August 2024 in England be £ 1 , 327 , but the figure for Lambeth be almost twice the national average at over £ 2 , 210 . we all know that wage be not rise in line with this increase . the reality face many private renter today be that they can be evict with only two month ' notice , often need to find thousand of pound to cover move cost and deposit on a new property . we have touch on the fact that most private landlord be good . the majority of they be provide a good service , and they play an important role in our housing ecosystem . the majority of they take their responsibility seriously , but for far too long a minority of rogue landlord have be able to exploit loophole in legislation to treat tenant in a frankly unacceptable way . the Bill must put an end to that , and provide tenant with the certainty and security they deserve . in 2019 , when I first stand for election , the conservative manifesto promise to end no - fault eviction , yet half a decade later , renter be still desperately wait for a fair deal and they can not afford to wait any long . I think about the email that I have receive since the start of the cost of living crisis , with constituent face rent rise of between 20 % and 30 % . one constituent even email I to say that their rent have double in just one year . they say : " I be a private renter . I ' m particularly concerned about unfair rent increase . I be 47 and have live in the same area for most of my time in London , but despite the huge amount of property that have be build in the area , none be affordable to buy and few be affordable to rent . " he go on to say : " I rent privately and my rent have be increase fast than my salary . at this point in my life , thing should feel more secure . if you want to truly end no - fault eviction , you need to address extortionate rent increase which be as good as an eviction for many . " I know that many colleague across this House have receive similar email , which highlight why this Bill be so badly need . it be critical that the Government act urgently on this matter , so I welcome the speed with which they have deliver this Bill to the House . it show how seriously they take the private rent sector . although this Bill be similar to the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , which be introduce under the previous Government , there be a couple of important difference that far improve the offer to private renter . the raising of maximum fine in multiple area , such as discrimination against those with child or those who be on benefit , be a step in the right direction , although the Renters ' Reform Coalition have call for an even large fine to act as a proper deterrent . I hope the Secretary of State will take that on board . the introduction of clause 55 outlaw rental bidding be also important . since the general election in July , I have be contact by tenant who be face bidding war . a person be tell that they be go to view a rental property , and then , when they turn up , they be tell that 45 other people will be view it with they and that the property will go to the high bidder . that be just unacceptable . I also welcome the extension to the protect period for no - fault eviction ground and the require notice period where these ground be use . do my hon . friend agree that one of the unintended consequence of section 21 be that people often do not report damp and mould or the repair that they need for fear of eviction , because they will be push into find a new tenancy , which they simply can not afford ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . that be really important . I give credit to the previous Government for Awaab ' s law , which tackle the problem of damp and mould in the social housing sector , but it be vital that we have the same protection for private tenant who , frankly , live in squalor . we have see email from people talk about black mould . that be not acceptable . housing benefit be be pay for those property . we need to make sure that tenant be rent the right property . the Bill will increase security for tenant , and help deal with those big deposit that they have to save for . however , as some colleague have highlight , the success of the measure in this Bill will come down to enforcement . in its report on the previous Government ' s Renters ( Reform ) Bill , the predecessor Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee find that measure make it easy for tenant to challenge rent rise in a first - tier tribunal could increase the workload of our justice system . we all know that our justice system be struggle under the backlog , and that backlog be far too common . it be critical that the Government ' s good intention do not result in a system that tenant simply can not access because of those lengthy backlog . we can not send tenant to tribunal if it end with they be far frustrate by the judicial system . will the Minister please tell I what work be under way to ensure that the tribunal be ready for this change in the law and can cope with the increase in case ? the previous Committee also warn that level of implementation could vary massively between different council . the large number of landlord in this country can make enforcement in the sector quite challenging , particularly when local authority finance be so stretch . although the introduction of the private rent sector database will help , we could see unscrupulous landlord fall through the crack if there be not stringent enforcement by council . the Bill will place new regulatory power and enforcement responsibility on local authority . the Minister be well aware that our council be face significant funding pressure . the Local Government Association report that due to inflation , wage pressure , and cost and demand pressure , english council face a £ 2 . 3 billion funding gap in 2025 - 26 . what step be the Minister take to work with council to ensure that there be sufficient enforcement of this legislation and that council be properly resource to carry out their new responsibility effectively ? finally , will the Minister please confirm whether the housing ombudsman will run the new private rent sector ombudsman , so that tenant can access justice in dispute ? when I meet the housing ombudsman , he mention that a number of case that be bring before he be allow when an appeal be make , so there be already failure at a local level . we also have to consider the fact that so many private renter be afraid to challenge their landlord because of the fear of eviction . we need a strong ombudsman to help they get the justice that they deserve . I look forward to work with the Minister as this Bill progress through Parliament . I hope that he will address the point I have make and ensure that we have a sector that work with our tenant , recognise how much they pay , and provide they with security , so that they no long have to fear be evict through no fault of their own . thank you . I have congratulate the Secretary of State on her position , but I also congratulate her colleague , the Minister for Housing and Planning , on his . he follow a long line of Ministers — the first , arguably , be Christopher Addison , the great Liberal and Labour Minister , who deliver not only the great Housing and Town Planning Act 1919 , but more than half a million council house . I be sure that the Minister will be deliver just as many over the next two or three year . as the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich , the Minister also follow former Housing Minister Nick Raynsford , with whom I have the pleasure of working . I be go to say that something in the water of Greenwich and Woolwich produce great Housing Ministers , but unfortunately , follow the legacy of the last government , there be far too much in the water — and we really do not want to dwell on that . seriously , the Minister be take on an important portfolio , as be the Secretary of State , of course . housing and planning have the power to touch every single person in the country and make up one of the most important role in Government . my own experience be limited to be a tenant and landlord — only ever a landlord of register social housing ; I be happy to declare that interest today . the Government face huge challenge , but we must not shrink from the overall objective of end homelessness , which be enshrine in both the Liberal Democrat and Labour manifesto . the Government will have the full support of my colleague on the liberal Democrat Benches of the measure that they bring forward to that end . as my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) have make clear and demonstrate , when opposition be need it will be constructive and positive . in that spirit , I be pleased to generally welcome the Bill , which will give tenant the security that all other resident already have and that tenant surely deserve , and put right the scandalous delay in bring an end to no - fault eviction . we must encourage the majority of landlord out there , who be responsible , as be the majority of tenant . when those interest go together , we can deliver the thousand of private rent home that we need in this country — we can not do without they . it be right also to dwell on element of the Bill that can support the supply of private rent housing . I refer colleague to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I welcome this Bill , and want to reflect on my constituency . the national average proportion of renter in the private sector be 19 % ; in Torbay , the figure be 26 % . that be mostly drive by the fact that we be the 10th bad authority in the country when it come to the amount of social housing , at 8 % , compare with a national average of 17 % . once upon a time , 35 % of people in our nation have social rent accommodation . do my hon . friend agree that more should be do about the significant issue of absentee landlord ? I certainly agree with my hon . friend . we need a lot more council and social rent home . I will return to that issue . in the spirit of ensure that a plentiful supply of rent housing come forward , we urge the Government to retain the option for landlord and renter to agree between they fix - term tenancy of three year , rather than periodic tenancy be the only product on the shelf , so to speak . we be worried that investor will be unlikely to invest ahead if they can not see security of tenure come from their investment . there could just be an increase in short - term holiday let as a result , because there would be no difference between tenure . if both renter and landlord be to have any faith in the court when it come to resolve dispute over eviction , the court must have the investment to do the job . put simply , and as be say early , there be not enough judge or bailiff and the system simply will not work until there be . in the same way , local authority must be fund properly to take on the new responsibility in the Bill . in Taunton and Wellington , the local Somerset council have more than 10 , 000 people on the council housing waiting list and be bring the brink of bankruptcy by the Conservative Government ' s cut to propose funding for social care — a crisis across the country that the outgoing conservative leader of Somerset call a " tick timebomb " , which be hand to the new administration . in those circumstance , it be not surprising that Somerset and local authority across the country be unable to enforce the standard of housing that we would want . the House of Commons Library find " evidence of low and inconsistent level of enforcement " when it come to address poor property standard . no amount of word in the Bill will make up for the need for resource ; I be pleased to hear the Secretary of State mention funding for local authority to discharge those duty . that be vital . the Bill also rightly make separate provision for student housing , but it do not extend to one or more student renter rent together . if that do not happen , there could be a significant withdrawal of student housing from the market . we would be concern to see that . I turn to other provision in the Bill . we welcome the protection for renter on benefit , who of course should not be discriminate against . we will also be seek an assurance that the 12 - month prohibition on re - letting follow an eviction will also apply to re - let furnish holiday let , such as on Airbnb . we be pleased to see that , follow the work of my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) and of the Minister of Housing and Planning , who both work on the Bill in the previous Session , no new , punitive definition of antisocial behaviour be be introduce . we thoroughly welcome that element of the Renters ' Rights Bill . to support our serve military personnel and help address the recruitment challenge in these uncertain time , I also support the bid of my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire , also in the last session , to ensure that MOD housing be also subject to the decent home standard propose in the Bill . it be curious that the government often like to legislate for other ; I want reassurance that they will legislate for their own MOD housing at the same time . service personnel deserve decent home just as much as anyone else . that decent home standard surely must extend to well insulation and energy efficiency — to EPC level c , as be mention early . I ask the Minister to meet the concern of my constituent in Taunton and Wellington and across the country by agree guidance with landlord and the sector on what would constitute reasonable ground for refuse permission to have a pet — a subject close to the heart of the Secretary of State , I know — and ensure that tenant be allow to keep their pet once that have be agree . above all , the Bill be about bring an end to the shameful delay of successive conservative government when it come to protect renter from unfair eviction . I hear the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) say that she want to help the Bill — but she have also table an amendment to kill it . if that be help , I would hate to see her definition of attack something . the change really can not come soon enough . one of my constituent , Mike Godleman , come to I some time ago . he have be serve with a section 21 eviction notice while recover from major surgery . he have love his home of over nine year . a couple of month ago , his councillor and I visit he to try to help he . we meet a kind , gentle and creative man who teach sign language , love dance and be a talented teacher and photographer . his charming son Perez and Zakkai mean the absolute world to he , and he have become more of a friend to we than a constituent . his son be a complete credit to he when we meet they . sadly , some 10 day ago Mike be find in his flat . he have pass away as a result of a pulmonary embolism — clearly not cause by his eviction notice , but surely people in Mike ' s position should not have to suffer be make homeless as a result of a notice that inherently , and on the face of it , show that there be no fault on his part . Conservative Administrations since 1988 have usher in a system in which the tenure that have grow most be the one that give the least assurance to tenant ; assure shorthold tenancy be now the most common form of tenancy . their approach seem design to maximise disadvantage to renter — 40 % of renter now say that , as a result , their last home move be force on they , add turmoil to insecurity of tenure . in fact by repeatedly announce that they would legislate but then fail to deliver on that legislation , the last Government prompt a massive 30 % growth in Airbnb short - term let , take away more security of tenure from other tenant . it be hardly surprising that Ministry of Justice report show that standard procedure claim for possession and eviction massively increase under the last Conservative Government , while accelerate procedure claim double from 4 , 000 to 8 , 000 . the Conservatives ’ inaction be a shocking abandonment of thousand of tenant to increase eviction rate , as landlord seek to pre - empt the often promise , but never deliver , end to no - fault eviction . do the hon . Member agree that , as I think the shadow Minister allude to in her speech , there have be attempt to use no - fault eviction as a way to deal with people who be at fault , and that the failure of that system have now become an excuse for not reform this injustice ? I agree with the hon . member . we must make sure that the court be properly resource so that the ground that be in the Bill to provide for eviction , where it be justify , can work effectively . that be surely the way forward , rather than some back - door approach in which no - fault eviction be use for a multitude of reason , many of they not justify . while it be right to legislate to end no - fault eviction — measure that Liberal mps such as the former Member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark , Simon Hughes , vehemently oppose from these Benches back in 1988 — we surely can not think that the private sector alone be the answer to solve our nation ' s housing crisis . the Government must be more ambitious , immediately ban no - fault eviction , build 150 , 000 council and social rent home per year , a comprehensive programme to insulate all housing , a planning use class to control second home and allow council to halt the right to buy , so that when we build council house we be not try to fill the bath with the plug take out . those be the priority that the Liberal Democrats will be campaign for and work to see on the face of this Bill . I urge the Minister and the Government to take on as many of our suggestion as they possibly can . rise — order . the House will be aware that more than 50 member want to speak in today ' s debate . I be impose an immediate time limit of four minute on Back - Bench speech and six minute on maiden speech . I stand to support the second reading of this Bill , particularly the abolition of section 21 no - fault eviction . it fall to my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to introduce a Bill that will fulfil the hope of the former Member for Surrey Heath to abolish section 21 eviction , which be the sole cause of crisis for homeless family right across our country . we currently have 117 , 450 family in temporary accommodation , include 151 , 630 child and — disgracefully — more than 20 , 000 baby under the age of one . that come at a cost to the british taxpayer of £ 1 . 6 billion a year — all of it public money badly spend ; all of it undermine the finance of local authority of all size and in every part of this country . what bother I most , however , be the family who present to I in my Mitcham and Morden constituency who be go through a section 21 eviction and know that temporary accommodation be on its way . Merton be a small south - west London borough and do not face the pressure that many other do , but those family know that they be go to be place ten of mile away , if not hundred of mile away , from their family and support network . on the point about temporary accommodation , do my hon . friend agree that there be something perverse in this broken market when a family be face with an eviction notice and a local authority have to rehouse they again in the private sector , cost the taxpayer more money ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . local authority have to rehouse those family in identical accommodation , only in bad repair , because there be not the same legal provision for temporary accommodation . child lose their place at school and their educational attainment fall , parent lose their employment , and baby die . we know through the work of Dr Laura Neilson , who work with I on the all - party parliamentary group for household in temporary accommodation , that between 2019 and 2023 , 55 baby in temporary accommodation — in the 21st century , in the fifth big economy in the world — die for the want of a cot . member right across the House know this , because we see the family and we talk to they , but most of our friend and neighbour would be shock to the core that these thing happen in our country . I will give two example from my last surgery . Mrs S be a nurse at St Helier hospital and Mr S work morning shift at a local supermarket . they have three child , one of whom be non - verbal and have autism . follow a section 21 eviction from their home , they be place 31 mile away from Merton , in Windsor — but only after they have spend eight hour in the reception of the civic centre and get their accommodation so late that when they turn up at Windsor , the estate agent be close and they have nowhere to go . Mr S have to pay £ 300 for they to be in a hotel that night . next day , when they turn up at the house , there be no bed , because nobody from the local authority — nobody from any local authority — check the accommodation before the family move in . I say to hon . member , " Don ' t believe your local authority if they tell you they do , because they simply can ' t do it . " my second example be just in case anybody think this issue only affect family . Mr H have dementia . when he be evict , he be place 8 mile away , in Croydon . that be not far , but it cause South West London and St George ' s Mental Health NHS Trust to remove he from its list and he lose the support he get from the geriatrician . we be do these thing to the most vulnerable people . that keep I awake at night , and I think it should keep all of we awake at night . I want to open my remark by recognise that in this important debate we all want to ensure that family who rent have good access to quality home and housing . that be the baseline that we must all recognise and acknowledge , with landlord in the private and social sector do the right thing when it come to their responsibility , their obligation and their duty to their tenant . this House need to be honest with itself and recognise that during these debate in recent year , not just today ' s debate , we have see landlord vilify . there be no question but that there be some terrible and shocking example — as be mention early , there be example in this very House as well — and it be right that they be expose . it be right that there be sanction for those awful landlord and it be important that , throughout the passage of this Bill and the discussion in this House , we all act responsibly to set the right bar and the right standard . that be crucial . although we have those shocking example , we should not forget that the overwhelming majority of landlord work hard to invest in their property and do the right thing by their tenant . that be fundamental to provide housing supply in the market — there have be back - and - forth between those on the two front Benches already around what will happen to housing supply , but we should bear that in mind through the type of regulation and legislation that this Government be intent on pass . we should not focus disproportionately on the minority who need to raise their bar and be hold to account ; as my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) have say , we must work through the unintended consequence of this legislation . I want to pose some question to those on the Government Front Bench . first , from the landlord ' perspective , may we have some transparency on the cost and impact ? the Government will not have the detail yet as this be a second reading debate , but we should recognise that during the passage of this legislation landlord will almost inevitably be pass on the cost arise from certain clause through high rent . come back to unintended consequence , there be also clause on control rent increase and initial rent review for tenant and they could be set higher ; the Government should be think about this . the cost of selective licensing scheme already introduce by local authority have be pass on to new tenant through tenancy agreement , so we need to look at what work and what do not work . moreover , landlord be leave the market as a result of what they know from the draft legislation about taxation and regulation , and we need to look at what that mean for private sector supply and what will happen to the market cost of rent . my next question , in the time I have leave , be on housing supply . I do believe that we need more social housing . I represent a constituency with four local authority , and our house building have be phenomenal over the last decade . that have predominantly be in the private sector but also in the social housing sector . my local authority play a very significant role in planning , housing and development , and we all recognise the heavy the work that take place in those area , but I would like to know how the Government be go to fund their enforcement policy for local authority , and how the capability will be put in place and how the prioritisation will come together . I know there will be further scrutiny and question during the passage of this Bill , and I will be press those to the Government Front Bench . rise — I call Alex Baker to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . for more than 100 year , since the dawn of universal suffrage , the people of Aldershot and Farnborough have send conservative mp to speak for we in this place , so it be with great pride and even great humility that I rise to give my maiden speech as the first woman and the first Labour Member of Parliament ever elect by my community . I congratulate everyone on both side of the House who have make their maiden speech before I . let I begin by pay tribute to my predecessor , Leo Docherty , for the seven year of service he give to my constituency . Mr Docherty serve our country in the Scots Guards , as a Member of Parliament and as a Minister of the Crown , and we wish he well for the future . Leo will be remember as a champion for our armed force , and I have already learn in my first few week as an MP to follow the maxim of the Parachute Regiment , be " ready for anything " , include the moment when I be tell just a few week ago that a tornado — yes , an actual tornado — be land in my constituency . whatever strong wind be yet to come , I be truly honour to represent my home and the place where I be raise my family . today I repeat the pledge I make to my constituent on the night I be elect : " no matter how you vote , or whether you vote for I or for anyone at all in the general election , I will dedicate myself to serve you , our neighbour and every corner of our community , in Aldershot , Farnborough , Blackwater , Hawley and Yateley . " my politic have be shape by people and place : my volunteering ; community group ; resident ' association ; my church ; and my career work with business and community , from the co - operative movement to the regeneration of Battersea power station , where I help build not just the brick and mortar of a new town centre but a vibrant and diverse community , well represent by Battersea power station community choir , which I found . these experience teach I that every voice matter and that listen to one another be the first step to get stuff do . that be the approach I be try to bring as our new Member of Parliament , and I know from Danielle , Syfun , Katie and many other resident who have already come to I with housing case how much we need to bring great fairness to our private rental sector , so I be look forward to support this Bill in the Lobby tonight . the history of Aldershot and Farnborough be build on service and great british innovation . we be the home of the British Army and the birthplace of british aviation . our story begin 170 year ago , as our country enter the crimean war . it be in 1854 that Queen Victoria give her blessing for the British Army to establish a permanent training camp in a small village on the Hampshire border . the Aldershot garrison town be the first complete military settlement build in the British Isles since the Romans . and Farnborough be transform too , grow from a small railway town to become the home of the Army balloon factory and the Royal Aircraft Establishment and a hub for military aviation . it be there in 1908 that Samuel Cody pilot the first aeroplane to take flight in Britain . my home continue to deliver cutting - edge technology to this day , with every single Boeing commercial aircraft test in the Farnborough wind tunnel . above all , Aldershot and Farnborough have be define by the man and woman who have serve and sacrifice in every major conflict that our country have face . we will always remember they . today we be also home to the large nepalese community in the UK . the Gurkhas have serve our country with outstanding bravery over generation , and I look forward to serve they and advocate for they in this place . as well as our military heritage , my community have a rich cultural history . we host the olympic game in 1948 , when event be hold in the Aldershot lido , where I now take my daughter swim . we be the setting for several Bond film , the place where Charlie Chaplin make his stage debut , and where the Beatles give their first performance in the south of England . we need to shout loudly and proudly about the great thing that have happen and continue to happen in our constituency , and that be something I will always try to do . there be Farnborough football club , whose woman ' s team be league champion and cup winner after their first ever season , and Aldershot Town — the shot — who recently become the first football club to receive the Ministry of Defence gold award for uphold the armed force covenant . there be great charity such as Step by Step , the Grub Hub , Yateley Industries , our Rotary club , the Vine Centre , and many more I could mention . they be all make a tremendous difference . and the world still come to do business at the Farnborough air show every two year . but for everything that be right with our community , I know from countless conversation on the doorstep that many of my neighbour question whether our good day still lie ahead of we . I take that really seriously . I be ambitious for our town — these community that have play such a role in our national endeavour — and I believe that if we can bring people together , we can bring new opportunity to our home , breathe new life into our town centre , and realise our incredible potential . I be ready to play my part in that and hope other will join I . let I end with a promise , because as I begin my term I have find some inspiration in the work of the Royal Corps of Transport , which be base in Aldershot for many decade . these man and woman keep our Army move across land , air and sea , and their work continue today through the Royal Logistics Corps . they go by the motto " nothing without labour " , and that serve as a reminder to I that everything we discuss in this Chamber , and everything we hope to achieve for our constituency , begin and end with hard work — struggle , toil , effort , do our good . for as long as I have the privilege of represent my home in this place , I can promise that hard work be the very least that my constituent will get from I , every single day . I call Ayoub Khan to make his maiden speech . may I start by commend the eloquent maiden speech by the hon . member for Aldershot ( Alex Baker ) ? when I be study law with aspiration of become a barrister , I often recall the word of Lord David Pannick KC . he once say that the Bar be like the Ritz hotel : the door be open to all , but only a select few ever get in . those word resonate as I stand here , privileged to represent my Birmingham Perry Bar constituent . there be many parallel between my journey to the Bar and my journey to this House . the Bar be once consider too elite for someone like I — a young man of colour from inner - city Aston , who grow up in one of the most deprived and disadvantaged area in Birmingham . yet despite all the barrier , I persevere and become a member of the legal profession , just as I now stand here as a Member of Parliament , represent a community rich in resilience and potential , despite its challenge . like many in this House — the most diverse in our nation ' s history — I bring a unique story . our diversity in race , religion and culture strengthen this Parliament , reflect the richness of the nation that we serve . in this House , we have the immense privilege of debating , challenge , and hold the Government to account for the decision that shape our country ' s future . I recognise that our opinion often differ and be , at time , deeply polarise , but our respect for oppose view , and ability to agree to disagree , be what define our democracy . my political journey begin over two decade ago in 2003 , when I be first elect to local government . it be a remarkable experience , not just because of my initial victory , but because after lose my seat in 2004 , I challenge the result through an election petition , expose Birmingham ' s postal vote scandal . as the election commissioner in that tribunal comment — I paraphrase — " Mr Khan must be commend . he be the backbone of the petition , fight this on a shoestring while study at the Bar . " that define my character — my commitment to fairness , justice and equality . barrister be teach to act without fear or favour , a principle that guide my action in public life . win as an independent be extremely rare , but that victory be not simply pluck out of thin air . it may surprise some , but during my political journey , I have contest seven local election , three general election , the west midland police and crime commissioner election and a european election . as I have serve my resident faithfully for over two decade , and will continue to do so , I be certainly no stranger to politic , and I take great exception to those who seek to undermine I , my campaign or my constituent . Birmingham Perry Barr , like many constituency , have its charm and challenge . it be once home to the great inventor James Watt , whose contribution be instrumental on a global level . my constituency be also home to the Jacobean Aston Hall in Aston Park , a stone ' s throw from where I grow up and still live . we be home to Aston Villa football club , which , as we all know , be support by his Royal Highness Prince William . and before anyone ask , no , I have not receive any complimentary ticket — yet ! the Commonwealth game at the Alexander stadium in Perry Barr bring much - need positive global attention to our constituency . however , we must not lose sight of the real challenge that we continue to face . many people in Perry Barr , like other elsewhere in the country , be at break point . our doctor and nurse be overwhelmed , struggle to deliver care under increase pressure . meanwhile , family be endure unsafe and unsuitable temporary housing . fly - tipping continue to plague large part of the constituency . the cost of living mean that child poverty have hit record high . crime and antisocial behaviour be rampant : just last week , our community face another tragic murder . grow up , I have the support of youth worker , who help to shape who I be today , but now , our youth centre be be dismantle . youth service and employment opportunity be vital for reduce crime , tackle unemployment and ensure a bright future for Birmingham . child with special need be also be fail . I visit Anglesey primary school , where 20 non - verbal child with autism be confine to a dilapidated room . their teacher be plead for just £ 10 , 000 annually for well facility . those urgent issue require real solution . let I turn to the substantive issue under debate . I have register my interest in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . although I welcome the Renters ' Rights Bill , I urge the Government to take strong action to address the appalling standard in temporary housing . we have 25 , 000 family on the waiting list for home , and with Birmingham city council declare bankruptcy , the situation be dire , but that be no excuse for the deplorable condition that family be force to live in . the Government must step in and provide support to bail out the council , just as we do with the bank . the people of Birmingham should not be make to suffer for the failure of local government . I must acknowledge my predecessor , Khalid Mahmood , who be the first Muslim MP to be elect to this House . he pave the way for many , and I hope to build on his work to improve the life of my constituent . another name fondly remember by my constituent be Jeff Rooker , a significant figure . a common bond between the three of we be our share working - class heritage through our parent . my late father , Iqbal Khan , work 12 - hour shift at the steel factory , while my mother , Parveen Akhtar , raise I and my sibling . both my parent sacrifice family tie in Azad Kashmir to pursue a well future for I and my sibling . I like to think that I have do they proud . at this point , I must also extend my heartfelt gratitude to my wife , child , extended family and friend , who have graciously share I with my constituent throughout my political journey . their unwavering support have be invaluable . finally , I would be do a disservice to my constituent if I do not mention in my maiden speech the plight of the Palestinians . as a lawyer , deal with evidence be my expertise , but a law degree be not necessary to see the injustice that we be all witness . on Monday , I tell the Prime Minister that self - defence be a moot point , but not because I do not believe that sovereign nation have a right to defend themselves — they do . despite desperate call for a ceasefire , those plea have fall on deaf ear . word without meaningful action be hollow . the only real action that the Government can take be to immediately halt all arm sale . if we be to truly claim the mantle of human right defender , we can not acknowledge the suffering of some while turn a blind eye to that of other . injustice anywhere be injustice everywhere . our response must be comprehensive and principled . I conclude my remark with the word of Albert Einstein : " the world will not be destroy by those who do evil , but by those who watch they without do anything . " Parveen and Iqbal will indeed be proud . time limit be limit , folk . if you look at I or at the clock , you will know when it be time to stop talk . I call James Naish to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this important debate . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Aldershot ( Alex Baker ) and the hon . member for Birmingham Perry Barr ( Ayoub Khan ) on complete their maiden speech . as the House will hear in a moment , I be use to be third , so this be an appropriate time to speak . I have the honour of represent Rushcliffe in the south of Nottinghamshire . in these quarter , Rushcliffe be know for one thing : Baron Clarke of Nottingham . if politic be a beauty contest , Ken Clarke be Mr Rushcliffe for 49 year before be ennoble , despite remark in his own maiden speech in 1970 that the constituency be a marginal . I be not sure that be how the local Labour party see it for the next 54 year . during the campaign , though , my local campaign team — ever the optimist — actually knock on Baron Clarke ' s door , and he graciously invite we in . we chat about various local issue before he unsurprisingly conclude that he would still be support the Conservatives at the election . at that point , his daughter helpfully pipe up from the next room , " remember , Dad , you ' re in the Lords — you can ' t vote any more " , condemn his party to one few guarantee vote . I be honour to follow in the footstep of one of the great character of this House . his pro - european view resonate strongly with the constituent of Rushcliffe , the only constituency in the east midland to strongly support remain in the EU . I will therefore endeavour to work closely with the Government to deepen tie with our european friend , neighbour and ally , as we must . I also pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Ruth Edwards , who serve on several Select Committees . she be passionate about the rural environment , chair the all - party parliamentary group on geographically protect food . she also fight hard for the east midland freeport and champion a network of safe space for domestic abuse survivor . I sincerely hope that Ruth be enjoy her time away from this House in what can only be describe as her own personal zoo — the farm that she share with a Labrador call Clemmie , chicken , bee , donkey , a tortoise call Geoffrey , and three alpaca . like Vera , Florence and Coco the alpaca , I be lucky enough to be bear part of a trio , the young of triplet . while the House of Commons Library be not 100 % sure , I be likely to be the first triplet to stand in this place . have spend my whole life share birthday , card , party , exam result day and much more , it be nice to achieve something unique that be not share with anyone else in my family , include a well - know podcaster who seek to stay relevant by disagree agreeably . I thank the people of Rushcliffe , especially the 73 . 2 % who vote — one of the high turnout in the recent election . since be elect , I have meet representative from our three great sport venue : Nottingham Forest ' s City Ground , Trent Bridge , and the National Water Sports Centre . I have make several visit to the site of the Ratcliffe - on - Soar power station , the last work coal - fire power station in our country , which close last week . such be my commitment to visit the site that on one occasion , run late , I decide not to fill up as I pass a garage , only to lose power three mile later as I be drive up the a453 . I block the left - hand lane for an hour while wait to be rescue — not the good place to be see as the new MP for the area . have work in delivery in the energy sector for most of the past decade , I strongly believe that the advanced , clean , green energy agenda , through which we can build the technology of the future , offer huge economic potential . I hope to speak regularly in this House on those topic . move on to this debate , I draw the House ' s attention to my registered interest in a property from which I receive a rental income . only last weekend , I see a comment online from a lady who move to my constituency with six - year - old twin . she post anonymously on a community Facebook group about a leak into her flat : " it ' s one excuse after another , and nothing have be do for six month . for the past three week , my child have be ill as a result . please , I need help and advice on what to do . " she tell I that the stress be cause high blood pressure and have result in change to her routine medication . that demonstrate that a person ' s living condition can have much broad implication for their health and wellbeing . I therefore welcome this Bill and its many provision to promote long - term secure tenancy , but as a former council leader , I encourage Ministers to consider how local authority can be well resource to take on extra enforcement work — a point already touch on . it be an honour to represent the people of Rushcliffe , and I will seek to serve they as well I can for as long as I be in this House . hopefully , the Government Whips will know that the correct , elect triplet be in the Chamber and voting . I congratulate the hon . member for Rushcliffe ( James Naish ) on his maiden speech . he may be the first triplet I have ever meet , so he can add that to his list of first . I speak recognise that we want , understandably , to keep tenant safe and to ensure that those in the private rent sector have the security that we believe they deserve . however , I do worry that the Government ' s good intention in what they be seek to achieve will actually leave we with no home leave to rent , or at least a significant reduction . have work in a homelessness team 20 year ago , I have see at first hand the impact on those who be evict . more recently , as the cabinet member for home and community , I have responsibility for homelessness , build safety , disabled facility grant and the cross - party plan for home that Plymouth city council have proudly work through over the year . I speak for tenant and landlord . no one can be responsible for homelessness and not want to ensure that people in vulnerable situation have the good opportunity . however , I also speak for the many excellent landlord in the city that I represent part of , not least those who be member of the South West Landlords Association , whose training I participate in while I be a cabinet member . they provide the vital rent home that the city and the surround area need , the loss of which will have an impact on the very tenant we be hope to support . none of this Bill will be relevant if there be no home leave to rent . rightmove be currently claim that there be 50 inquiry for every rental property in Plymouth . we also have 365 household in temporary accommodation , with 162 of those household in bed - and - breakfast accommodation . I be sad to say that those number have not really move much in the last couple of year , because of the lack of private rent property . with this Bill , we may therefore be ignore the danger of the impact on those tenant in temporary accommodation . we need to ensure that the private rent market in city such as Plymouth and the surround rural area be fit for purpose , and at the moment it be completely break . the fact that the home be not necessarily always fit to in live be almost the least of the problem , because again , as I have say , if there be no home to live in , people do not have anywhere to be . this issue of landlord remove themselves from the sector be also bring up in the speech of the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) . what do the hon . member think happen to property when landlord remove themselves from the sector ? the hon . Member make a very good point , and that bring I on nicely to the next section of my speech . one of my constituent have recently write to I to say that he be very sadly , have be a landlord for the same tenant for 25 year , sell his entire portfolio of 89 property . sometimes , we do actually see — [ interruption . ] will the hon . Member allow I to finish ? thank you . we sometimes see some really constructive solution to these problem . for example , while I be a cabinet member on a conservative council under the Conservative Government , Plymouth city council , Plymouth Community Homes and Homes England be able to work together to purchase 86 three - bedroom property from Annington Homes , which be the supplier for the MOD . so the hon . member be correct that there be some option . however , although my constituent have approach the council , there have currently be no movement . the point I want to make in this section of my speech be about what more Homes England could do to ensure that when landlord leave the market as an unintended consequence of this Bill , their property be buy by local council , although they may need the grant that Homes England have so generously provide in the past . do the hon . Member think that the house disappear when the landlord move out of the market ? the brick and mortar be still there . the problem in our housing market be cause by the lack of supply and by private landlord take advantage . such movement of home in a fix market be not go to cause the problem that I think she be suggest . my experience have be that this do impact on the market . that be why the market in Plymouth have fail , in the word of the chief executive of the city council , because those property often get buy by a family who may not have be — [ interruption . ] no , let I finish . such a family may have be in a privately own property , not a privately rent one . I feel that we be speak to the same point , but ultimately the market in the constituency I represent be not work . I be speak only about the evidence I have see for myself , but the 89 property that be go to be sell will mean 89 further household need temporary accommodation . it they have to be find further accommodation when there be 50 inquiry for every rental property in Plymouth , there be clearly a problem , although I do take the point that Labour member have make . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will . order . we need to reduce the number of intervention , because they eat into other Back Benchers ' time . I will be brief , Madam Deputy Speaker . do the hon . member recognise that a number property be take out of the private rent sector to be use as temporary accommodation because landlord be able to get a well deal , sometimes from council , and that that also have an impact on the market ? yes , the hon . Lady be correct . that be part of the problem , and I go back to my point : it be why in city such as Plymouth the private sector market be fail . those temporary home be need for those who have be evict from the private rented sector , and then we end up with they stay in temporary accommodation , rather than permanent home . ultimately , we be all seek to achieve somewhere for people to live in the long term , not temporarily . I believe we all need that security , which be ultimately what the Bill be try to achieve . I be just highlight that if there be no supply , there be no home for we to secure through this legislation . I know that the Secretary of State recognise the important role of landlord , yet this Bill feel like a use sledgehammer to crack the nut of no - fault eviction and poor condition , with significant unintended consequence , as the shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , outline . we will see property leave the market and therefore a further increase in the number of people not in accommodation . I take the House back to this figure : this Bill will increase , from 365 already , the number of household in the city I represent who be live in temporary accommodation . it be a pleasure to follow my colleague ' inspire maiden speech today . this be the first time I have rise to speak in a substantive debate , follow my own maiden speech in the summer . I be proud to support this Bill , which be the most significant reform to the sector in more than a generation . it will end the exploitative practice of bidding war . it will offer security to renter , and it will enshrine a commitment to a decent home be the right of everyone in our country . private renter be at the sharp end of our housing crisis . accord to english housing survey datum , one in five live in non - decent home . in my constituency , it be a scandal that 1 , 300 people be pay to rent non - decent home . the majority of they live in Hatfield , where the average cost of a two - bed to rent be £ 1 , 200 a month . the private rental sector account for more than one in four property . for all the good and responsible landlord in the sector , too many have not take their responsibility to tenant seriously . sadly , the last Government do not take their responsibility to renter seriously either . this comprehensive Bill will act where the Conservatives fail . the journey start with a commitment to those who rent property , but who have be lock out of the process by rental bidding and rental war . as it stand , landlord be free to invite closed bid for how much rent people be willing to pay , play they off against each other to maximise their return . it be plainly wrong , and like so much of our housing system , it penalise people who be less likely to have access to saving or family wealth . as set out in clause 55 , we will end that practice . the Bill call time on rental bidding , but it also call time on no - fault eviction . private renting can never offer the same security as home ownership or social housing , which be why this Bill be tie inextricably to a broad Government agenda of build 1 . 5 million home over this Parliament and make building home for social rent a priority again . end section 21 and move to periodic assured tenancy be a significant strengthening of renter ’ right . if someone be move into a rental home for the first time , they will have a year of security . it be two month under the last government , but it will be 12 month under Labour . the quality of our private rent home be just as important as security of tenure . for too many people , once the battle to find a place to live be win , a new front open with their landlord on the quality of their living condition at home . there be a well than one in five chance that a private renter will be live in a non - decent property . the Bill will ensure that private renter be no long second - class citizen and be protect by the decent home standard . I say in my maiden speech that I would always say where we agree with another party , and I congratulate the Conservatives on bring in Awaab ' s law in the course of the previous Parliament , but it be absolutely right that this Labour Government extend the law to the private sector , so that every renter in England can challenge dangerous condition in the home and , crucially , do so safe in the knowledge that they will no long be subject to a no - fault eviction simply for have the confidence to speak out . there be thousand of renter in my constituency and 4 . 5 million across the country . the Bill be a landmark moment for all of they . I be proud that it be a priority for our Labour Government and I look forward to work with colleague as it progress through the House . I congratulate hon . member on their excellent maiden speech this afternoon and declare an interest as someone who have be involve in the commercial and residential property sector for over 35 year . the thing be , there be many good and noble intention in the Bill . the Secretary of State outline they and I think the whole House endorse they . she speak about the need to balance right between tenant and landlord . that be a matter of judgment , and I fully respect that the Government be make a series of judgment and decision . the reality be , though , that in the last five year , the quantity of private sector property available to rent in the United Kingdom have reduce by about 50 % . as more restriction and regulation be impose , the quantity be go down . I think that be particularly so in Scotland , where there have be even tight restriction and the availability of property for rent have reduce . of course , what we all want be the opposite — a great supply of rental property — but that require additional capital for additional new home to be build . that be a key objective of the government that I think all of we support , but to ensure sufficient reward and attraction for that capital , landlord need to know that the balance of risk and reward be appropriate and that vacant possession can be secure . I be old enough , lady and gentleman , to remember the ' 70 and ' 80 — [ hon . member : " surely not . " ] I know . a two - tier market emerge between what be call assured tenancy and assure shorthold tenancy , for which vacant possession could be secure . property with assure tenancy be worth approximately only 80 % of those with assured shorthold tenancy . I say to the Minister , in the Secretary of State ' s absence , that the risk here be that if the Government get this wrong , the capital will disappear , the quantity of property to rent will reduce and the quantity of supply to be build for the private rent sector will reduce . I urge the Government to keep these measure under close review as the Bill pass through the House . if they get the balance wrong and it be make too difficult to secure vacant possession — particularly of property with tenant involve in antisocial behaviour or not pay their rent — the supply will reduce dramatically . I ask this question before and do not get a successful answer . perhaps the hon . Member can tell we what will happen to those property when landlord pull out of the market . it be a really good question , and I be happy to answer it . if the landlord pull a property available to rent out of the market , it will go into the ownership sector and that property will not be available to rent . we know that there be significant demand to rent , and I say to the Government that we want to increase the supply of property available to rent . I therefore repeat the point that it be about risk and reward . the Government must make these judgment . I just say to the Minister that he should keep this closely under review . if the Government get the balance wrong , the market will reduce while demand will continue to rise , so rent will rise as the supply reduce . that be my concern . if the Bill pass — it be likely to — perhaps the Minister should review it in a year by look at the datum and see what be happen to rent , what be happen to supply and whether further tweak and adjustment be need . I call Pam Cox to make her maiden speech . I congratulate all those who have make their first speech today . I look forward to continue to work with they in the come month . I be here in this place at the pleasure of the voter of Colchester . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I ' ll take that . Colchester be the very first capital of Britain . in the year 49 ad , it be the first place in the country to be give the status of Roman colonia . unfortunately , we hold that title for only a decade , before a woman from Norfolk lay waste to the city . the Romans decide that a muddy river crossing in a little place call Londinium would be a safe bet . that be almost 2 , 000 year before another woman from Norfolk , more precisely South West Norfolk , enter Londinium and lay waste to the british economy . we Essex folk could have warn you of the danger . [ laughter . ] on my way into this place , I often walk past the imposing statue of that first Norfolk woman , Boudica , stand proud in her chariot on the embankment , and I feel like she be spur I on to step up to the plate as Colchester ' s first woman MP . I be an historian by training and profession , and each day that I enter this House I remember that I be only here because of the commitment and effort of the generation who come before I — woman and man who value democracy and serve their community . I come from a family dedicate to service . my mother work in public health and my father work as a church minister . they teach my sister and I the value of public service , and I have promise the resident of Colchester that , as their MP , I will put those into practice . I be also very proud to be a member of a party whose leader have pledge to lead a Government of service . those word mean a great deal to I — they be one of the reason why I stand to be an MP . we be here only at the pleasure of those who put we here , and our job be to serve they . I wish to pay tribute to my predecessor . will Quince serve as Colchester ' s MP for nine year . he work very hard for his constituent and be dedicate to their wellbeing . in particular , I highlight the work he do on baby loss , a cause that still mean a great deal to he . I know that he be continue to serve in his life after Parliament , in particular as an Army specialist reserve officer . the connection between Colchester and the Army begin with the roman legion , and it continue today in the form of 16 Air Assault Brigade Combat Team , which be the british Army ' s global response force and be able to respond to crisis around the world at a few hour ' notice . I pay tribute to its service and bravery . will ' s predecessor , Sir Bob Russell , be Colchester ' s MP for 18 year , and he continue to serve it today as High Steward and as chief letter writer to the Colchester Gazette . no one be more passionate than Sir Bob about celebrate our city ' s history , and I be proud to be at an unveiling of his most recent project , a statue celebrate the Colchester origin of the world ' s most famous nursery rhyme , " Twinkle , Twinkle , Little Star " . please come to see it , and while there you can take in the country ' s old and long roman wall , its only roman circus and one of the most impressive Norman castle , not to mention award - win art venue such as the Mercury theatre , Firstsite gallery and Colchester Arts Centre . on that matter , forget the hype around Oasis — Colchester Arts Centre and Stanway school together hone the rare talent of Blur . I be sure that sentiment be share by the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , my constituency neighbour . I would also like to recall one other predecessor , Charles Smith , who be the only other Labour MP in Colchester ' s history . he be elect 79 year before I , almost to the day . Charles Smith , later Lord Delacourt - Smith , be part of that great reform Government of 1945 that give we the national health service , national park , new town and so much more . now that be a Government of service . they take office after year of destruction , with the country in mourning , debt and crisis , yet they still generate hope , take action and lay the foundation for a bright future for we all . we have a lot to learn from they . I be very proud to speak in this debate on a bold Bill , which be in that spirit . it will bring much - need change to our housing sector and uphold the right of thousand of tenant to live in the decent home that they deserve . the case for the Bill have be eloquently set out by the Deputy Prime Minister , the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , and other speaker . I be not a career politician . I have spend most of my life research , teach and lead in high education , much of it at the outstanding University of Essex . I work in social history and social science . it be my firm belief that only by understand what have work and what have matter in the past can we hope to build a well future . I have write about the history of work , criminal justice , social care and education . I have use that knowledge to help to lead present - day policy change in youth service , family court , woman ' s employment and victim ' right . there be a red thread run through my work , which have trace how mode of governing have change over time and how we have come to govern in the name of freedom with the aim of enable people to truly flourish . if our country be to flourish , everyone must have the opportunity to thrive . we need decent public service that give everyone the good start in life and support we through to life ' s end . that be a collective endeavour . Colchester have be a wonderful home to I and my family . I stand for election first as a city councillor and then as an MP because I want to give back to that community that have give we so much . I thank my fantastic family and all the local campaigner who have be a brilliant support to I over the past few month and more . old habit die hard : member will be relieve to hear that I have resist the temptation to circulate a reading list to go with this lecture , or speech , or to speak for my customary 50 minute — Madam Deputy Speaker be look at I . I be look forward to work as hard as I can for those who have send I here : the people of Colchester . let I start by congratulate the hon . member for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) on her excellent maiden speech and her comprehensive survey of Colchester ' s history . on the morning of Friday 5 July I be elect as a Member of this House . my result be declare at around 6 . 30 in the morning . like so many of we , I have be awake for 24 hour and I be exhausted but elated . when I get home I have breakfast and a couple of hour ' sleep . I be wake up by hear something be put in my letterbox . that in itself be not unusual ; my landlord receive my post and put it in that box , as they live just 25 metre away . I wonder what it could be : another magazine from a charity I support , a credit card bill or perhaps , even , a belatedly deliver Liberal Democrat election leaflet ? when I open the letter , it be something even bad : a section 21 eviction notice state that my landlord intend to retire , and give I just over two month to move out and find somewhere else to live . I have be rent that home for more than four year . I have always rent , and up to that point I have generally have a good experience , so I have no particular axe to grind . but receive that eviction notice via letter without any prior conversation or indication that it may be come be not what I need any morning , let alone that morning when my head be spin from have be elect . receive a section 21 eviction notice be tough for I , but it be far bad for many other — people with child , those who care for disabled or elderly relative and those without the financial mean to deal with the deposit and up - front rent associate with move to a new place . some tenant may seek a landlord notice period of more than two month , but the current market do not provide that , which show that regulation be need . exposure to many of these renting issue be , at root cause , drive by a lack of social or affordable housing to rent . in the town of Didcot in my Oxfordshire constituency , the average house price be 14 . 8 time the average annual salary . this significant disparity highlight the need for more home that be cheap than market rent , so that young people want to start family can afford to remain live in the area . more social and affordable housing would also ease pressure on some lower pay key worker role in education and healthcare , which currently be hard to recruit . there be many problem with the current renting arrangement , which I be pleased to say the Bill address . however , some organisation represent renter believe that it do not go far enough . for example , the charity Crisis feel that strong action may be need to protect tenant from unfair rent increase , and to remove some of the barrier that make it hard for low - income tenant to secure a private rent tenancy in the first place . research commission by the TDS Charitable Foundation indicate that nearly half of private renter do not know where to turn if their landlord or let agent fail to address a problem they may have . that highlight the need for well information for tenant on their right and where to find support . the Bill do not include a requirement for landlord to engage in dialogue or discussion with a tenant before issue an eviction letter — something that would have help in my case . as my hon . friend the Members for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) and for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) say , more could be do to require landlord to improve energy efficiency , and local authority and court will need to be properly resource to enforce the Bill ' s provision . in a free market economy people have the right to invest in property , but it be important to remember that a home be far more than a financial asset . unlike stock and share , a home be a place of safety , security , shelter , warmth , comfort and privacy and somewhere to raise a family . that should always be our starting point . I call Torsten Bell to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I praise the speech by the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) , who powerfully make the case for change that the Bill will deliver . I should also start by thank all hon . member for their indulgence , because it be just possible that another maiden speech be not the gap in their life right now . even member on this side of the House have realise that there be one downside to such a big landslide . my immediate predecessor in the seat name Swansea West serve his constituency diligently ; he campaign on important issue like air quality . and I feel great affinity for his predecessor , Alan Williams ; like I , he be an economist before he be a politician , and he focus on the bread and butter issue of raise living standard . but today , Swansea West be not very west at all . in fact , half of the constituency in the north and east be previously represent by my hon . friend — and more importantly , formidable friend — the Member for Neath and Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) . I shall endeavour to emulate her passion and drive , but not her bold sartorial choice . in her maiden speech , she challenge Dylan Thomas ' famous description of Swansea as an " ugly , lovely town " , rightly note that today it be " economically exciting , architecturally beautiful " and " culturally … groundbreake " . as someone new - ish to politic , I be more concerned about another phrase attribute to Thomas , label Swansea the " graveyard of ambition " . fortunately , he never utter such word , and the ambition of this great city be alive and well , as anyone who have watch the newly establish Penlan under - 10 team train in drive rain can attest . perhaps there be an even more deeply hold and widely share ambition in the city , of our council , our business leader and the myriad community group that hold our city together — an ambition for a Swansea in which great prosperity be create and great prosperity be also share . I shall play my part in realise that ambition and do justice to the honour of be elect for this great city — the city in which both my parent start their inspire career of service . but it be a person , not a place , that take a punt on I as a young man : the former Member for Edinburgh South West , Alistair Darling — an honourable Friend in here but always a friend to I . as the bank go bust , he teach I that politics be a vocation to be live up to , not a game to be play , and that the MP ' s role be to combine service to a community and also service to a cause . there be no great community than Swansea and no great cause than rebuild the prosperity of it and this United Kingdom . I be very much not the first Jack to lack a local accent . the city have welcome so many . early 18th century record show jewish name begin to crop up , and today , our mosque be crucial institution — one the whole community rally around when violence and Islamophobia be see on the UK ' s street this summer . those flee the war in Ukraine have find Swansea a genuine city of sanctuary . and while I may be the first Torsten to represent Swansea — and maybe anywhere — people with suspicious scandinavian name be nothing new . Legend have it that a certain Viking provide the origin story of Swansea by settle on " Sweyns - ey " — Sweyn ' s island . more recently , the 19th century poet , Walter Savage Landor recognise that the frankly overrated bay of Naples have nothing on Swansea bay . economist like to talk about comparative advantage and , well , this be ours — glitter from the industrial might of Port Talbot to the more genteel Mumbles . never mind Naples ; there be a far more important comparison with Cardiff . it be a contest long settle by the writer Jan Morris , who succinctly conclude that " Swansea be much the nicer " . it be , but it be no utopia . one in five child live in absolute poverty . the famous industrialist , Sir John Morris , founder of Morris Town — today ' s Morriston — lie under St Matthew ' s church . that building be today the base for Matthew ' s House , a wonderful charity do work that should never be need , feed hundred of the most vulnerable resident in a city be 340 household become homeless every month . like many place that drive the industrial revolution , Swansea ' s past offer much to be proud of , such as the schooner , build to sail around the horn carry the copper nitrate that make the city rich , and the world ' s first passenger train , instigate by an 1804 Act of this Parliament . it be pull by horse — an experience perhaps not much slow than on today ' s still inexplicably unelectrified main line . we celebrate all this and more , but what my constituent be ask today be how we can build a well economic future — that be the question . the typical wage in Swansea be £ 536 a week , and House of Commons Library research show that it have not rise by one penny since 2010 . that be what economic failure on a colossal scale look like . and while wage do not rise , insecurity do . a constituent recently open her door to I , distraught at have see her weekly hour cut from 15 to three overnight . none of we could live with that uncertainty , and no one should . if mainstream politic can not provide the very basic — decent home , stable job and rise wage — many will turn away , from vote or to populist who seek to exploit these problem , not to solve they . defeat populism also mean reject fatalism , because we know that progress can be deliver ; the minimum wage have prove it , and the employment Bill to be publish tomorrow will do so again . investment can be prioritise , pothole can be fill , and home can be build . who own the good view in Swansea ? not the owner of a mansion but the resident of Townhill , an estate for work people , build between the war on the precious land in the height above the city centre . today we debate what be inexplicably delay basic standard for the million of renter squeeze out of both home ownership and social housing . the Bill ban landlord , in Wales or England , from discriminate against tenant who receive benefit or have child . Swansea have many of the material to build this share prosperity . I will not list they all , but they include our great university , a future and not just a past for Port Talbot , and the new opportunity to be seize from a tidal lagoon . service to a community and to a cause , to Swansea and to share prosperity : to my constituent , I promise to give my all to that task . finally , to hon . member here I bring perhaps even more welcome news : that be one few maiden speech to go . I pay tribute to all the new member who have deliver their maiden speech , and I wish they well as member of the House . I draw particular attention to the maiden speech make by the Member for Birmingham Perry Barr ( Ayoub Khan ) , my colleague in the Independent group . the issue of housing that we be debate today should have be a huger issue in the general election than it actually be . a quarter of a million people in this country be homeless at any one time . in my own area , 2 , 000 people be live in temporary accommodation — or , sadly , sleep rough — include 850 child . I pay tribute to the many organisation in my area that do a huge amount of work to try to alleviate the problem of homelessness , include Streets Kitchen , the Single Homeless Project , Shelter from the storm , and Acorn , which represent private sector tenant . I welcome the Bill . much of it be very good . it be a huge improvement on what have go before . frankly , it should have be law a long time ago . however , there be one or two area that I think we should consider . british renter , on average , spend 30 % of their income on rent , and the proportion be far high in London . one in five private tenant spend more than half of their salary on private sector rent . young people , especially those move into inner - city area , for instance in London , Birmingham , Newcastle and Manchester , be saddle with student debt and , on top of that , be pay phenomenal amount of rent , usually in share flat . it be quite normal for young people in my constituency to be rent flat for more than £ 2 , 000 a month , which they have to share with three or four other people . they might be happy sharing for a short time in their 20 and 30 , but as they get old they want their own place . they have no saving and no ability to save , and they have no security of tenure either . something have to change . I make this point in my intervention during the Secretary of State ' s open speech . I welcome the Bill , because end no - fault eviction and provide security of tenure be a huge step forward . provide for some predictability when it come to get repair do and right of representation be good , and the role of local government in these measure be also good . however , unless we address the fundamental issue of very high rent in the private rent sector , we will not make any progress . in my constituency , about a third of people live in the private rented sector — up from less than 10 % when I be first elect to the House many year ago — and the figure be rise all the time . the rent be incredibly high . when somebody who be on universal credit and eligible for housing benefit look for a flat in my area , none be affordable within the local housing allowance . it be simply far too expensive , so the only thing that happen be that people move out . we need to bite the bullet and introduce rent control in this country . it would not be the end of the world , and they would not destroy the private rent sector . rent control have be introduce in Berlin , and they be quite common across much of Europe and in the United States . unless we introduce rent control , we be go to have a continue long - term problem . I want to finish by say that we be deal with a desperate housing shortage in this country , and it will be resolve only by the comprehensive building of council housing with secure tenure and genuinely affordable rent . that will deal with the scourge of homelessness . for the benefit of new colleague , one do not stride past a Dispatch Box once a debate be take place . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate and express my full support for the Bill . I welcome the swift action of the ministerial team in bring forward this vital legislation , which be the most significant package of reform to the private rent sector in over 40 year . as the Member of Parliament for Luton South and South Bedfordshire , I be most frequently contact about the issue of housing . give that just under 35 % of home in my constituency be privately rent , the issue that tenant be face in this sector be very familiar to I . everyone deserve the dignity of a safe , secure and affordable home , but a lack of regulation and protection for tenant in the private rent sector mean that this be currently not the reality for many . rental discrimination against tenant who be in receipt of benefit or have child be common practice , so I be pleased that this Bill will make it illegal for landlord and let agent to discriminate on that basis , and give local council strong enforcement power to tackle this unlawful practice . mortgage lender and insurer will also no long be able to impose restrictive , discriminatory term . a significant rise in section 21 no - fault eviction notice over the past year have far highlight the precarious situation in which many renter find themselves . datum from the Ministry of Justice indicate that as of June this year there have be 176 repossession in Luton due to section 21 notice , compare with 112 in 2023 . across the country we see a similar pattern unfold , with over 32 , 000 no - fault eviction claim submit to court in 2023 - 24 — the high figure since 2015 - 16 . those figure highlight just how stark the situation be , so I be pleased that Labour be committed to abolish section 21 notice once and for all . this legislation will also empower private rent sector tenant to challenge unreasonable rent increase , prevent unscrupulous landlord from use rent increase as a back - door mean of eviction . I be pleased to see many of the other measure set out in the Bill , include ensure that there be a legal standard for property condition . as it currently stand , 45 % of private renter in England be experience damp , mould or excessive cold in their home . this be completely unacceptable , and I be glad that the extension of Awaab ' s law will set clear legal expectation about the timeframe within which landlord in the private rent sector must take action to make home safe where they contain serious hazard . that go hand in hand with the creation of a new private rent sector database that private landlord will be require to join , give tenant , landlord and local authority access to key information , and give council the power to target enforcement where it be most need . I know that many council across the country have face significant budget cut , with my own council in Luton have £ 170 million of funding strip since 2010 . that can constrain its ability to check property proactively for non - compliance , and place great reliance on tenant be aware of their right and reporting problem . although I be pleased to see plan to tackle these issue , I would encourage Ministers to work in collaboration with local government to ensure that the necessary resource be available for council to carry out this enforcement and to effectively protect tenant . the hon . Member be make an excellent speech , and I be delighted to see that no - fault eviction will finally be ban . on the point about local government , do she agree with my party that it be imperative that local authority be give the power to regulate the number and location of Airbnbs ? we know that too many property that be available for rent be take out of the market for long - term renter and use for Airbnbs , because landlord can raise more money that way , and I think it be important that local authority should have those power . I thank the hon . member for that important point . I be sure that when the whole package of measure around housing be take forward by this Government , that point will be well consider . this Bill be design not to villainise good and responsible landlord but to give renter much great security and stability , so they can stay in their home for long , build life in their community and avoid the risk of homelessness . I look forward to work with Ministers to deliver this and make the private rent sector safe and more secure for my constituent across Luton South and South Bedfordshire , and indeed across the country . I congratulate the new member who have make their maiden speech on the interesting and important point raise . I should declare that I be a member of Acorn Community Union , which campaign on renter ’ right . indeed , I have personally campaign on renter ’ right for a long time now . this welcome Bill be a once - in - a - generation opportunity to recognise the right of the 11 million people live in the private rent sector to have a safe , decent and secure home . in the word of activist Kwajo Tweneboa , we be face " the big housing crisis since the Second World War " . we have a generation who will never be able to earn enough to have a mortgage and can not even afford their rent now . the average rent in Bristol Central have hit nearly £ 1 , 800 a month , which be more than in several London borough , and a huge 47 % of household in the constituency be in the private rented sector — that be 18 , 000 household . as the Secretary of State herself say , good landlord who be already act fairly have nothing to fear from this Bill , but the rogue one — like the landlord of my constituent who make countless report of damp mould and leak for month with no resolution until the ceiling fall in — need to be hold to account . I really recognise the many good part of the Bill , but I hope the Government will go far on three key issue : security of tenure , rent affordability and energy efficiency . on security of tenure , the extension of notice period to four month for landlord sale and move in be progress , but we must have clear evidence threshold for those ground of no - fault eviction and measure to ensure that the 12 - month " no re - let " period be not break . we also need an automatic right of non - payment of rent in the final two month to compensate a tenant for the disruption of be force to move home . the proposal to outlaw bidding war be okay as far as it go , but it be not likely to be effective in tackle rise rent . Landlords could still hike rent to kick people out , so we really need a cap on rent increase within tenancy , set at the low of either average wage growth or inflation . rent in advance should be cap to one month — as a Labour Member suggest — to stop discrimination against people on low income . but rent be too high in the first place . to illustrate this point , if a 21 - year - old living in Bristol rent a single room today at the average rate , they will have put £ 80 , 000 into their landlord ' s bank account by the time they reach their 30th birthday . we need a system of rent control , carefully introduce with local flexibility , aim at bring rent down relative to income , alongside a suite of policy to address the housing crisis , include a major increase in social housing and real support for community - lead housing . I endorse all my hon . friend ' s comment , particularly on the need for rent control . in my constituency of Brighton , I have a very high population of renter , include myself . I have only ever be a private renter since leave home over 30 year ago . my constituency have many young people and student rent , and my local Acorn branch and the National Union of Students have also raise the problem cause by well - off guarantor be require to secure a rent home . I have speak with the NUS president about this . it fuel discrimination against working - class , estranged and international student , and fuel homelessness among student — order . I be stand , so you must be seat . I call Carla Denyer . my hon . friend the Member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) make a good point about guarantor , and I would also like to see that issue address in this Bill . Citizens Advice report that almost half of private renter be live in home plague with cold , damp or mould . winter fuel bill be due to go up by 10 % , and the winter fuel allowance be be cut for million of pensioner . it be good to hear that the Government ' s regulation will apply to social housing as well as private housing , but that commitment need to be explicitly enshrine in this Bill , and let we get go on energy efficiency — there be no time for delay . there be a consultation on energy efficiency in the private rent sector in 2020 , so let we not do another ; let we just get on with it . we must properly fund our local council , which will enforce these new right . council that be on the brink of bankruptcy after 14 year of swingeing cut will obviously struggle to deliver this part of the policy . we need a shift in how we think about renting . in policy and practice , we should move away from view housing as an asset — as an investment for the wealthy — and towards prioritise and value the right to a stable home . almost every point of improvement that I have suggest today have be raise by member and ex - member of the Labour party , so I hope that the Secretary of State and the Minister will give they very serious consideration . this be such a welcome and important Bill . I hope it can be make even well to become truly transformative . my Green colleague and I will be vote for the Renters ' right Bill tonight . I support this long - overdue Bill . almost a quarter of household in Dulwich and West Norwood be rent privately , and many of they live with the instability cause by an under - regulate market . I be contact every week by constituent who be live in unacceptable condition , face unaffordable rent increase or threaten with a section 21 no - fault eviction . private renting be fundamentally unsustainable and unstable . too many local renter be live in poor - quality accommodation , suffer with damp and mould , but with limited lever to hold their landlord or let agency to account . those who complain risk reprisal eviction , from which they have no protection . tenant be force by rent hike and section 21 notice to move frequently , and they be deny the security of a long - term home . parent put child into school not know whether they will be able to afford to stay in the area for the duration of their education . increasingly , young family be be price out of London , and that contribute to a dramatic drop in school roll , so I warmly welcome this Bill . I recognise the crisis that my hon . friend describe . do she agree that individual and family be pay the cost of this crisis , not only with money but with the trauma of be move from home to home ? my hon . friend make a good point . this crisis in private renting be take an unbearable toll on the health and wellbeing , the financial security and the stability of family across the country , which be why this Bill be so welcome . I will table an amendment to the Bill . last year , constituent of mine tragically lose their son to suicide . he be in his first year of university and have sign a tenancy for his second - year accommodation shortly before his death . the tenancy , which have not start when this young man die , include a guarantor agreement sign by his parent . after their son ' s death , the let agency insist that the agreement apply even in the event of a tenant ' s death and , shockingly , begin pursue my constituent for rent payment . while face the unbearable loss of their son , my constituent be force to find another student to take on his tenancy in order to be relieve of their responsibility for the rent . this type of clause be not in every guarantor agreement , and it be wholly unnecessary . landlord can insure themselves against loss of rent in the event of the death of a tenant . my amendment would outlaw the pursuit of guarantor for rent owe by a deceased tenant , to protect other family from this cruel treatment while they be grieve . I be grateful to the Minister for Housing and Planning for his positive engagement on this issue , both in opposition and since he have be appoint to the Department . I hope the Government can accept my amendment , which be draft with assistance from lawyer at Shelter , as a straightforward solution . I hope member from across the House can all agree that no one face bereavement should have to worry that they will be pursue for their love one ' s rent . finally , on affordability , rent in Lambeth and Southwark have grow rapidly in recent year . I welcome the measure in the Bill to ensure limit to rent increase under the section 8 process , and to ban landlord from accept rent from prospective tenant above the ask price . however , the scale of the crisis in London be so significant that there be a need for further action on rent rise . I hope that as the Bill progress through the House , my hon . friend will listen to the call of the Renter ' s Reform Coalition and the Mayor of London , and will consider what more can be do to stabilise rent and assist with affordability . for too long , reform of the private rent sector have be neglect , leave renter in Dulwich and West Norwood suffer with insecurity , poor accommodation and rise cost . the effect of this crisis in private renting be destabilising for our community and harmful for health ; I see the impact of the crisis every single week in my constituency . the Renters ' Rights Bill will be transformative for my constituent , and I will be proud to support it this evening . during the last Parliament , the Conservative Government betray tenant across the country . they commit to give renter the right to a safe and secure home by abolish section 21 eviction , and then delay for five year . in that time , nearly a quarter of a million people have their life turn upside - down by a section 21 eviction notice , and quarter of a million more have not complain about disrepair for fear of have such a notice serve on they , so at least half a million people have suffer because the Conservatives do not keep the promise they make in 2019 . as we speak , two of my constituent face the consequence of the Conservatives ’ inaction . they come to the UK seek refuge from Putin and his illegal invasion of Ukraine . one be a full - time carer for his wife , who be physically disabled and suffer from multiple severe mental health difficulty . over the past year , their landlord have repeatedly threaten they with eviction , leave the couple in constant uncertainty regard their housing situation . these threat have be accompany by surprise increase in rent and verbal abuse so bad that one of my constituent be hospitalise after suffer a major panic attack . despite pay their rent on time and act in accordance with their lease , my constituent have be continually threaten with a section 21 notice . now , they face an appalling Catch - 22 situation . if they leave their property , they make themselves intentionally homeless and give up the housing safety net ; if they stay , they risk have the life that they have begin to build tear out from under they at a moment ' s notice . their case be just one example of how a bad landlord can dominate their tenant ' life , and why this legislation must be enact without any further delay . I join my liberal Democrat colleague in welcome the Bill , not only for the security and confidence it will bring to our constituent , but for the broad measure it will introduce . I be glad to see proposal to give tenant the right to request a pet — a request that landlord must consider and can not unreasonably refuse . we be pleased that the Bill contain a presumption in favour of keep pet , as they be often an integral part of a family . I join colleague in commend the Government for finally do what the last Administration could not — ban no - fault eviction , increase housing security and make the rental market fairer for all . the Renters ' Rights Bill will bring much - need security and safety to renter . I praise the Minister for Housing and Planning and the Secretary of State for bring forward the Bill , which be much strong than the previous Government ' s Bill . as the MP for a constituency with one of the large private rent housing sector in the UK — it have 17 , 740 private rental property , the majority of which be rent to student — I want to use the debate to highlight problem face by student renter , both in my constituency and across the country . student be shoulder the burden of 14 year of Tory mismanagement of our economy . the dual housing and cost of living crisis be be compound by landlord make it increasingly difficult for many student to secure housing . this leave many in increasingly precarious situation . student in my constituency have tell I of landlord ask they not just for a UK guarantor — the criterion for which be that the guarantor must own a UK property — but for deposit of up to 100 % of annual rent . such requirement disproportionately affect working - class student , care leaver , and those estrange from their family — group that be already more vulnerable to poorer economic , educational and health outcome . international student , too , face significant challenge , as most do not have family member with property in the UK . as one of my constituent , an international postgraduate student at Leeds University , tell I : " my only viable option be use the guarantor service ' Housing Hand ' , which cost I an additional £ 50 a month on top of rent . I be a phd student receive the UKRI minimum stipend … the cost of live for food and rent alone be already difficult on this stipend , and , during the final week before the stipend be pay each month , I often struggle to maintain a healthy and balanced diet due to financial strain . " Research conduct by student from the Centre for Homelessness Impact find that just 36 % of university provide help with rent guarantor , that even few provide a rent guarantor service for student , and that , as university themselves be face extreme financial difficulty , such a service will become ever more unlikely . rent as a student be already an uphill struggle . we know , for example , that student accommodation price have increase by 61 % since 2012 . information from the National Union of Students show that two in five student have consider drop out because of the cost of rent . when we be try to encourage people to attend our world - lead institution , which strengthen the skill potential of our country ' s workforce , why do we put up so many barrier ? our university be the UK ' s strong source of soft power . international student in particular be leave with nothing but bad choice : they must either find a UK guarantor or pay six month ' rent , or more , up front to their landlord . as one student tell the all - party group for student : " international student often face more challenge than home student . we have hear story of student pay month of rent , only to find out that they have be scamme , and that the place they think they ' d secure do not even exist . " it be for those reason that I would like the Government to consider ban landlord from demand either UK rent guarantor or huge up - front payment , and perhaps limit deposit to just three month ' rent . I would also like they to end the pressure for joint tenancy to be sign too early in the academic year , so that student need not commit to accommodation before they be ready , create artificial panic in the market . ultimately , we must remove barrier for care leaver , student and international student . we have hear from student that access to a rent guarantor be often a determine factor in their ability to continue their degree , or even access a university education in the first place . everyone deserve the opportunity to succeed in their academic journey without the add stress of housing insecurity . the Government have the opportunity , through this Bill , to break down a major barrier to all student ' right to pursue high education . I hope that they will work with I on this . let I start by congratulate my hon . friend on their incredible maiden speech , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) , a good friend of mine with whom I have the privilege of share my parliamentary private Secretary position . it be clear that he will be a great asset to the people of Swansea West , as well to this Chamber . I be a firm believer that a safe , secure , affordable home should be a basic human right , that it be intrinsically link to well life outcome , and that this should be the case whether a person own or rent their home . for too long , renter in my constituency of Southampton Test have suffer from no - fault eviction , rot , mould , and damp or draughty home . parent stay awake at night , anxious as they put their child to sleep in hazardous environment . some be ignore by their landlord , stick where they be , with soar rent and fix - term tenancy . other be too worried to raise concern out of fear that they will be evict and their child will not have a place to call home . in Southampton , homelessness soar by more than 70 % in the past five year under the previous Government . two third of those who declare themselves homeless in my city do so as a direct result of no - fault eviction and insecure tenancy . nationally , the charity Shelter warn that 172 family be threaten with homelessness every day for the same reason . that equate to one family every eight minute — a shameful inheritance from the previous Government . renter have long deserve far well . they be fail by the previous Government , who clearly side with vested interest , rather than keep their promise . I be proud to be part of this new Labour Government , who will deliver for renter and who be finally consign no - fault eviction to the dustbin of history , and , in do so , improve the life of thousand in Southampton and million across our country . I welcome plan to stop needless rental bidding war and to ensure an end to fix - term tenancy ; so many renter in my constituency find themselves trap into pay rent for substandard property . I welcome the extension of the decent home standard to the private rent sector so that family in Southampton can live without be expose to issue such as damp and mould , and can sleep at night without worry about their and their child ' s health . as a former leader of a council , I of course welcome great enforcement power for local authority to ensure that rogue landlord be identify and that improvement can be make without delay . new measure will also save the public purse vital fund — from local council , which currently spend million desperately try to house those make homeless through no - fault eviction , to the NHS , which increasingly help patient with condition link to issue such as damp or mental ill health , as people of all age struggle with the everyday anxiety of live in an unsafe , insecure home . in conclusion , for too long renter of all age and background across Britain and particularly in Southampton have be at the mercy of rogue landlord . today , Labour be say , " no more ! " home be where we raise our family , put down root and find a sense of belong in our community . that be possible only if we know we be in a safe , secure and affordable home . with this new Labour Government and the Bill , that will finally be possible for renter , who have wait too long already . I echo comment from other about the fantastic maiden speech that we have hear across the Chamber today . I be proud to rise in support of this landmark legislation — the most significant reform to the private rental sector in more than 40 year . like many new member on the Government side of the House , I have see at first hand the consequence of our break rental sector . just day before Christmas , I receive an email from my landlord have live in my home for five year . I be tell that he would be " willing " to let I stay if I accept a 29 % rent increase . meanwhile , we go for day without hot water because of a faulty boiler that repeatedly break down . my gym membership be not to keep fit but to ensure that I could have a shower each morning before head into work . however , the story I hear from my constituent during the election campaign be so much bad than anything that I have experience . I have hear of landlord convert home into house in multiple occupation , cram stranger into what use to be family ' live room . I have speak to mother in tear because they have be force to uproot their kid once again because landlord decide that it be time to sell . I will not spend too much time dwell on some of those problem , because other member have speak about they , but obviously the effect on family be pretty severe . but there be a much wide effect on our society as well . it affect our economy . a stable and productive workforce depend on individual have security in their personal life , which section 21 eviction undermine . we have also hear about the effect that the issue have on the funding of our local council . to be clear , the Bill do not seek to stop good landlord remove bad tenant . tenant must , of course , always pay their rent , look after their property and respect their neighbour . under the Bill , all landlord will still be able to end tenancy if there be legitimate reason , such as want to sell the property . however , I urge the Government to consider extend the protect period to two year and provide clear guidance on how landlord will need to prove their intention on those ground . obviously , I agree with the Bill ' s approach in not introduce rent cap , which we know can create unintended consequence , but we must ensure that landlord be not able to exploit that by excessively raise rent mid - tenancy as a back - door way of evict tenant . it be right that the Bill stop landlord from raise rent above market rate , but I would also like to hear more about how market rate will be determine ; I speak from personal experience . do my hon . friend agree that the landlord database be a great opportunity for we to avoid clog up our tribunal ? if the landlord database have a tenant ' portal , it could help to aggregate the datum so that , at local authority or postcode level , people could see what the average rent really be in their area , thus avoid more tribunal . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , and I agree . in my experience , the 29 % rent hike be deem justified because right down the road there be a property be advertise on Zoopla at that new price — but of course that property be newly furnish and have not be agree by a landlord yet , so it be likely to be inflate above market value . we should consider use the rental database to track actual agree rent and give we a more accurate picture of market rent , not just speculative rent . I have a minute and a half leave , so I would like to make one final point — this be my first experience of try to scribble bit of a speech halfway through . we have hear lot of heartbreaking story , but I want to bring the House ' s attention to Zeke ' s story . Zeke be an adorable cat who , just one day shy of his first birthday , end up in Battersea after his family face an impossible choice . they love he dearly but , when it come to find a rental home that welcome pet , they hit wall after wall . in the end they have no choice but to give he up . can you imagine , Madam Deputy Speaker , have to choose between a roof over your head and a loyal companion you have raise as part of your family ? Zeke be not alone . housing be now the second most common reason animal like Zeke end up in shelter — not because their owner do not care , but because the system fail they . we be a nation of animal lover and nearly two third of tenant would love to own a pet — I know that feeling ; I be one of they — but for many family it be simply not possible . property that allow pet be few and far between , and when they move , pet owner be often force to choose between a place to live and keep their pet . that cruel choice lead to heartbreake story such as Zeke ' s . I warmly welcome the provision on pet in this Bill , and the many other provision that I know will make life well for private renter across my constituency and across the country . I congratulate everybody who have make their maiden speech today and make excellent point in this debate . I thank the Secretary of State , Ministers and everybody involve for their hard work in prepare this Bill . they have already demonstrate a great level of ambition on tackle housing security than the Conservatives show in 14 year . I receive a significant amount of correspondence from private renter concern about high rent , insecurity and poor living condition . nearly half of my constituent be private renter , many of they student . I have visit some of their house and be horrify by the extent of the damp , mould and disrepair that many be force to live with . sadly , many have become resign to accept that this be what they have to deal with . far too many family live in appalling condition , which in turn significantly influence their physical and mental health . that should never be acceptable . I be reassure to hear the Secretary of State talk about safety first . safety should come first and it will be a relief to many tenant that this Bill will extend Awaab ' s law to the private rent sector , to ensure that repair be undertake in a timely manner . the Bill will also make home safe by apply the decent home standard to the private rent sector for the first time . I welcome that but , as a lawyer who use to practice in social welfare law , I know that many people struggle to navigate the system and will struggle to take on landlord on disrepair case . I urge the Minister to work with colleague to look at how we can extend social welfare law legal aid to people who need support to navigate the system . this legislation be a major step forward and I have no doubt it will help to tackle housing insecurity and affordability in the private rent sector . however , it clearly will not solve all the problem in the sector , because many be due to the wide housing crisis . I call on Ministers to go far and investigate the possibility of introduce legislation to cap in - tenancy rent increase at the low end of either inflation or wage growth . we must make it a national priority to fix the housing crisis to ensure that everyone can live in affordable , safe and secure home , so I welcome our Government ' s ambition to build more affordable home . I be delighted that we have already start this process through our plan to reform the planning system and to reinstate home building target , which the Tories scrap . however , affordable must really mean affordable — for far too long affordability have come without a definition , and deposit have remain unaffordable for many . these policy will make a difference in Sheffield Central , as home ownership rate be much low than the national average and its constituent be among the young in the country . we need to build more green , sustainable and genuinely affordable home so that more of my constituent , especially young people , can leave the private rent sector and get on the housing ladder . I look forward to support the Government in this House to deliver their mission of build the home we need — affordable home — so that people in Sheffield Central and across the country can benefit . I would like to begin by warmly welcome this Bill and declare that until July I be chief executive of a homelessness charity . it be well know that section 21 eviction be the second high cause of homelessness , so it be a delight to be able to speak in the debate and to support the Government . this Bill can not come in soon enough . I would like to read out a short excerpt from an email I receive from a constituent who be recently issue with a section 21 notice : " we have live in our home for over four year and be shock to be tell that we need to move out . we have be desperately search for a new house to call home but due to a housing shortage and extortionate rent , we can not find anywhere to move to and be face homelessness . in the time we have live at our current house , we have make a life in our community . we run a business and teach twice a week at our local hall . we help care for an elderly gentleman in the village to enable he to remain in his own home . the feeling of be powerless be overwhelming . we have be completely consume by our housing situation for five week now . we feel powerless to protect our boy , six and eight year old . it be hard to function and it feel like an impossible situation . . . our neighbour advise we last week of the Labour Government ' s plan to immediately abolish section 21 notice . we sincerely hope that this happen in the future so that go forward , people never have to feel the way we do now . " that family write to I at the end of August . sadly , thank to the inaction of the previous Government this Bill be too late for they , but for many other it be timely . the perilous rental market be an anchor around the neck of many family like these and this excellent Bill be a reminder that Government really can help those in need . however , I would like to ask the Minister to look at two tweak to the Bill . first , will he examine whether any new no - fault ground for eviction could include a provision that exempt tenant from pay their last two month of rent ? research by Generation Rent show that the average unwanted house move cost a typical two - adult household £ 1 , 709 . that include find the deposit for a new home , cover rent on two property , take time off work and a host of other cost . Most people do not have £ 2 , 000 lie around , so that insecurity can lead to homelessness . I urge the Government to look at those situation . secondly , I ask the Minister to consider whether the permit 12 - monthly rent increase should be cap at the low level of inflation or wage growth . character matter , and some landlord — a small proportion — have spend year extort and squeeze their tenant . an obvious loophole some landlord will exploit to manipulate tenant be to use their annual rent increase to push rent to unexpectedly high level and create economic eviction by the back door . that be on top of the fact that landlord be clearly increase rent beyond any sense of the common good , with rent inflation last year outstrip wage growth by 3 % and inflation by 5 % . I understand that first - tier tribunal be in place for just this scenario , but evidence suggest that these tribunal have not have the overall desire effect of bring average private rent increase in line with affordability , let alone inflation . I be proud that this Government be genuinely committed to ensure that the 4 . 6 million household rent privately in this country be no long dependent on the whim of another for their security . that be part of a comprehensive plan , along with nationwide house building and a cross - departmental homelessness strategy , that will transform what it mean to have a place of belong and security in this country . I call Chris Ward to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) , as well as all the excellent maiden speech make this afternoon . I grow up in Brighton , and my parent grow up in Peacehaven , so it be a huge honour and responsibility to represent the great constituency of Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven . it be also a privilege to speak in this debate , because of all the Bills in the King ' s Speech , this one will have the most immediate and far - range impact on my constituency . why ? quite simply , housing be the single big issue there . it make up around two third of the casework that I receive and dominate every constituency surgery , from overcrowding — typically a mum , dad and three kid cram into a two - bedroom flat — to overprice , with home ownership now beyond the reach of far too many , and landlord charge London price in a city that do not pay London wage . in Brighton , there be also a persistent problem of homelessness and temporary accommodation , especially in the western part of my constituency . there be at least 7 , 500 on the council house waiting list , while 1 , 600 household , 50 % of which have child , be live in temporary accommodation . on top of that , my constituency have the among the high number of high and medium - rise block outside London , with people trap for year in unsellable and unsuitable home . you can see why , Madam Deputy Speaker , I want to make my maiden speech on the issue of housing . the Bill be a big step in the right direction . Justlife , a wonderful charity operate with people in temporary accommodation in Brighton , tell I that around a quarter of all homelessness application in the city be a result of section 21 no - fault eviction . the Bill will finally outlaw that . as the Secretary of State say early , apply the decent home standard to the private rent sector will also give renter the safety and security that they need . there will be new power for renter to challenge the excessive rent rise that we see far too often in Brighton . give that one in four people in my constituency live in the private rent sector , that be why the Bill will have an immediate and far - reach impact . I thank my predecessor . when Dennis Hobden win Brighton Kemptown for Labour in 1964 , he do so by seven vote and become the first Labour MP in the whole of Sussex . I be pleased to report that there be now six labour mp across Sussex — we be so numerous that we have our own WhatsApp group . I also thank Lloyd Russell - Moyle , who represent Brighton Kemptown for the past seven year . in particular , I thank Lloyd for his work championing LGBTQ right , an incredibly important issue in Brighton Kemptown , give that it have one of the large lgbtq community in the country . I also praise Lloyd ' s campaign to ban the heinous practice of conversion therapy — a ban that I be proud to say this Labour Government will now pick up and take forward . I be delighted to say that I be the first Member of Parliament for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven . quite right , too , because a third of my constituency extend beyond the boundary of the city and reach as far east as Peacehaven . name at the end of world war one , Peacehaven lie on the Greenwich meridian , perch high above the cliff of the south down look out at the english channel . it be a wonderful place — although I be contractually oblige to say that , because it be where both my parent grow up , in neighbouring street , more year ago than they would like I to admit . I be sure that many member will have visit my constituency at some point , whether for a trip to the seaside ; to see the bustling shop of Kemptown , the tranquillity of the south down , Rudyard Kipling ' s house in Rottingdean or the wonderfully restore art deco lido in Saltdean ; or simply to jet - ski around Brighton marina , as the leader of the Liberal Democrats prefer to do . for those who have not have the pleasure of go , the easy way to picture my constituency be run from west to east , from Brighton pier to Peacehaven , and from north to south , from the Amex stadium , which be home to my beloved Brighton and Hove Albion — [ interruption . ] thank you very much . and through the south down to the seafront . in between , one can see the diversity and beauty of my constituency : the vibrancy of Kemptown , the proud work - class community of Whitehawk and Moulsecoomb , the small town know collectively as the Deans — woodingdean , Bevendean , Ovingdean , Saltdean and Rottingdean — and the beautiful green space and slope street of queen ' s Park . but if we look closely , we also see something else : the inequality and injustice that hold back too many life across my constituency . behind the picture postcard view — the down , the pier , the lido — one in four child in my constituency grow up in relative poverty . Whitehawk , a stone ' s throw from the bustle of Kemptown , be in the 10 % of most deprive ward in the whole country , and Moulsecoomb — within sight of the rich of the Amex and the excellence of Sussex and Brighton university — be the second most deprived ward in Sussex . that inequality matter : it thwart potential and hold back life chance . as the excellent local campaign group Class Divide emphasise , child from the poor part of my constituency be twice as likely to be exclude from school , three time more likely to be place outside mainstream schooling , and half as likely to get good GCSE grade . life expectancy itself vary by seven year between the poor ward in my constituency and the rest . the Prime Minister often say that for he , politic be not about left or right ; it be about who you have in your mind ' s eye when you make a decision . I hope that for the time I have the great honour of represent the constituency and community that I love , I will always have in my mind ' s eye those who be at the sharp end of that inequality . marvellous . I call Chris Vince . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to contribute to this important debate and speak in favour of this Bill . before I do so , let I take the opportunity to thank my hon . friend the Member for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven ( Chris Ward ) for his excellent speech . as the Member for Harlow , I live in a town full of Spurs supporter , so he be not overly popular at the moment , but my chief of staff be a fellow seagull , so he will be pleased to show my hon . friend support . this be a really important debate to I , because Harlow constituency have nearly 6 , 000 household in the private rent sector and suffer from the previous Government ' s ill - thought - out permit development legislation . however , like many people who have already speak , this debate also have personal resonance for I as somebody who work for two year at a homelessness charity in Harlow call streets2homes . my role be generally to go out , sometimes into woodland and industrial area , to find report rough sleeper , get they register with our charity and help get they off the street and , quite often , into the rented sector . that be why I personally welcome this legislation , which reject the concept of no - fault eviction , and be look forward to vote for it later . the experience of work for a homelessness charity can often be challenge , but sometimes it can be baffle as well . it be unbelievable to I that in my previous role , I find it easy to house someone with an alcohol or drug addiction than someone with a dog . that include guide dog — we have one in this Chamber early — as well as emotional support dog and assistance dog . those be animal who help people cope with and manage medical condition , so that be not the kind of barrier that people with those condition should be face . it be like say that we will not allow people with an inhaler for their asthma to have a house . while at conference this year , I have the opportunity to visit the Guide Dogs stall and talk to the wonderful people who support that wonderful charity . they highlight this issue to I , and I be appal by the lack of awareness of it . it be an issue face every day by people who be already at a disadvantage ; we should be make their journey into a home easy , not put up wall and barrier against they . as a dog owner myself — I be not sure I be go to introduce my dog to Jennie just yet , because he might get a bit carry away — I emphasise how important have a pet be to a family , and the emotional bond that they create . be push to choose between a roof over your head and your family be not a choice anyone should have to make . here be a statistic — will my hon . friend give way ? I will . do my hon . friend agree that once consent for a pet be grant , that consent need to remain for the duration of the tenancy , and that we could strengthen the Bill by make that explicit in it ? ultimately , I want to do what I can to support people who have pet in their home , and my hon . friend be right to say that we do not want people to face the anxiety of potentially be in a situation where a pet could be force out of their home . as I be about to say , 62 % of homeowner in the UK have a pet , and as be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) , we be a nation of pet lover . let we be very clear : this be not about punish landlord , and never have be ; this be about protect tenant ' basic right . there need to be clear guidance on what reasonable pet ownership mean , and I be glad that the Bill recognise that . furthermore , 57 , 340 household be threaten with homelessness due to the end of an assured shorthold tenancy , which be an increase of 4 . 6 % on 2022 - 23 . People can not be treat with such a dismissal . some 21 % of renter live in what we refer to as non - decent home — home that be not fit for live in — and this be somehow allow . renter be not and should not be treat in a less way than homeowner . they should be entitle to the same security in their life as homeowner . I declare an interest in that my husband work for an organisation that have allocate some funding to the Renters Reform Coalition . I would like to associate myself with the remark by my hon . friend the Members for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) and for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) about the experience of so many londoner live in the private rent sector . I warmly welcome this Bill , which will improve the life of million of people . I also commend the ministerial team for the speed with which they have bring it forward after year of prevarication and delay by the Conservatives . I be deeply concerned that the amendment move by the opposition reveal no understanding of the state of the private rent sector and thoroughly lack contrition about the state of the court that the Conservative Government have leave we with . do they really not understand the impact of their previous decision ? across the UK , about 19 % of household rent their home from a private landlord . in the Cities of London and Westminster , that rise to over 45 % of household , or over 27 , 000 people . many of the renter I have speak to do live happily in well - maintain and modern building , but too many of they live in home riddle with damp and mould , and face disproportionate and out - of - the - blue rent hike . that go to the heart of the matter : the security of your home should not depend on who own it . this Bill will go a long way to change that . I welcome the measure on end section 21 no - fault eviction , bring an end to bidding war and strengthen right for pet owner . I believe these measure really will stabilise the market and reduce homelessness . I would like to focus on the ombudsman service for the private rent sector . one of the key issue in the private rent sector have be the long - stand imbalance of power that mean tenant be unable to secure action from their landlord . the ombudsman will have power to compel landlord to issue an apology , provide information , take remedial action and pay compensation . it be positive that tenant will be able to access the ombudsman service without the need for a referral . however , there be work to do to ensure that it be clear where the responsibility lie between the new ombudsman service and other exist body . the ombudsman will need to establish itself within a current landscape that be complex , as council , the police , trading standard and the court all have a role . I welcome the wording in clause 104 , which establish the duty of local authority in enforce landlord legislation . as the new ombudsman service be set up , information sharing with local authority will be key to empower they to enforce its decision . I believe that the ombudsman service should also be accountable to Parliament and to the public . almost a third of regulator be not scrutinise by Parliament from 2019 to 2024 , which simply be not good enough . a formal timetable should therefore be establish for the new ombudsman to be review by the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . renter should also have clear information on where and how they can seek redress . the Department should publish guidance for renter about lodge complaint , and information on complaint should be share with other relevant body , include the police and council . the wording of clause 63 be currently open to interpretation as to who will carry out the redress scheme , and I urge the Secretary of State to consider merge this service with the exist housing ombudsman . the success of this Bill will of course depend on the ability of local authority to enforce it . resident of the Cities of London and Westminster , from the west end to dolphin square , be likely to benefit from this , which I strongly welcome . burden should be lower to enable local authority to regulate without the interference of national government . I know that , along with strong support for the measure in this Bill , many in the House will join I in support this Government ' s mission to build 1 . 5 million new home during this Parliament . I rise to speak in support of the Bill , which will bring a range of positive and necessary reform to the private rent sector . I welcome it wholeheartedly . the private rented sector be grow rapidly , and it be imperative that tenant and landlord can operate the system safely and with appropriate protection . I be particularly pleased to see the application of the decent home standard to the rented sector , which will ensure that tenant have the tool to challenge unsafe housing condition and hold landlord and let agent to account . I know that renter in Doncaster Central will be pleased to hear that . I take this opportunity to ask the Government to address the issue that care leaver face in secure housing in my constituency and across the country . it be welcome to hear the Prime Minister say in his conference speech that we will provide home for all young care leaver , because that have never be more important . that be a group who continue to face discrimination from some private landlord . a survey by Centrepoint find that one in 10 care leaver have be refuse accommodation by private landlord . the same survey reveal that 40 % of care leaver have insufficient saving for a deposit . those factor can often force care leaver into unsafe living situation , such as poor - quality property or live with other adult who be old and unfamiliar . ultimately , these barrier lead to a lot of care leaver become homeless . prior to enter this House , I be a prison officer , and I work with many care - experienced man , who be there disproportionately , because care leaver represent just under a third of the prison population . lack of access to safe and affordable housing limit employment and education opportunity and prevent access to financial and health service . this be contribute to the poor outcome we see with this group , and we must change those outcome . it be my hope that the Government will consider take up some of the recommendation offer in the late briefing from Barnardo ' s to ensure that care leaver have the unique legal protection and resource they need to access housing in the private rent sector . that include the provision of rent deposit and guarantor scheme across all local authority and the addition of care leaver to the group against whom landlord can not discriminate when let out property . I also hope that the crucial reform in the Bill will be accompany by the accelerated building of more social home in the UK to ensure great access to secure housing . I be glad that this Government be introduce crucial protection for tenant , and my next hope be that their effort will ensure that all UK resident , include those who have leave care , can access the safe accommodation that they need and deserve . I welcome this Bill with warmth . it will ban section 21 no - fault eviction for new and exist tenancy and introduce a number of standard for the private rented sector , include — crucially — Awaab ' s law . there be no doubt that the no - fault eviction ban be testament to the work of campaigner all over the country , and it have the potential to drastically improve the situation face private renter . I would like to probe a little bit more about the balance in the Bill , especially regard the extend possession ground for landlord to reclaim their property . many of we would like to see the new eviction ground be more favourable to tenant . will the Minister elaborate on the evidence that landlord will be expect to provide to prove that they be genuinely move in or sell , so that the provision be not abuse ? it be welcome to see that the Bill will make it illegal for landlord to discriminate against tenant in receipt of benefit or with child . my constituent would also have like to see the Bill end the immigration right - to - rent rule , which be part of the disgraceful hostile environment . those rule force landlord and agent to check tenant ' immigration status , disproportionately impact people of colour . one might argue that the level of rent itself be the most discriminatory factor . the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , and other have mention that the evidence be overwhelmingly clear that an effective measure to stop renter be evict would be rent control . all too often a 20 % rent hike be simply a no - fault eviction under a different name . the availability of housing that people can actually afford be key . it be not just that affordable home be in short supply ; they be also , in fact , not affordable . in east London we know that well . People be also concerned about gentrification . it be my strong view , and that of many constituent who have contact I over the year , that development should be focus on solve the exist housing crisis and drive in the interest of local people . we really need investment in our community . we need a mass house building programme . we need to be honest about what the private sector can deliver . it make little sense , if the housing crisis be to be effectively tackle , that for every affordable home — which be not , in fact , affordable — two , three or even more luxury flat continue to be build . build a new generation of social housing , and particularly council housing , be the only true long - term solution to the housing crisis . campaigner and tenant ' union have rightly welcome the Bill . it be an important positive step , and I look forward to engage with it constructively during its journey through the Commons , because housing be a right , not a commodity . let I start by congratulate the Minister for Housing and Planning , my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , for work relentlessly on these matter in opposition and carry that momentum into Government . this far - reach Bill will end section 21 no - fault eviction , which for too long have be a major factor in drive up homelessness . it give real protection to those who have be leave to the whim of the market and have bear the brunt of the housing crisis and a protect period at the beginning of the tenancy , bring an end to discrimination face by those in receipt of social security , bring an end to the bidding war , and roll out the decent home standard across the private rent sector . the Government will no doubt face stiff resistance from the usual suspect , who will endeavour to pick away at key aspect of the legislation , not least the four - month notice period that the homelessness sector and charity such as Crisis have welcome . I urge the Government to stand firm , know that they be on the right side of history . since 1980 , the private rent sector have more than double in size , overtake social housing to become Britain ' s second - large form of housing tenure . the prs be the most expensive of all form of housing tenure , and rent be increase . in 2023 the Centre for Policy Studies note : " since 2010 , the cost of renting have go up by 44 . 5 % accord to the Halifax . during this period , wage have rise by 30 . 4 % and inflation have rise by 24 % . this be hardly a sign of a function market . " not only in London but in our great northern city , include Liverpool and Manchester , the private rent sector have lose all sense of proportion as a cabal of landlord and let agent have seek to jack up rent again and again . young adult be particularly affect . remain on rent , the Government must go far . I urge they to look at rent stabilisation method , include tag rent to the low of local wage growth or inflation to guard against further hardship be face by our community . on enforcement of the decent home standard , I urge the Government to resource local authority adequately to ensure that that work be carry through effectively . I also raise a small but significant absence in the Bill : reform of the deposit system , which be routinely abuse in too many instance . I will look to work with the Minister on a constructive amendment in that regard . the national database be a game changer with the potential to properly regulate the sector across the piece . I would like to see more information available on the national database , include information on let agent manage tenancy be tag to property . as we move into this new phase to protect the million live in the private rent sector , education and information be readily available be crucial to tenant know and understand their right . maybe we could use the national database as a portal for resource available to tenant . I end by once again pay tribute to my hon . friend the Minister . I know that he have a steely determination to see the Bill through . I hope that member across the House will back he in do so . affordability be a huge issue for private renter . as a nation , we spend more on rent as a proportion of our income than most of Europe . World Health Organisation guideline state that housing be unaffordable if more than 30 % of income be spend on housing cost . here in the UK , the average renter pay more than that . the private rented sector currently provide the least affordable housing of all tenure , and most renter settle on a place they can just about afford . that be exacerbate by some landlord and agent ask for more than the advertise price , which pit prospective tenant against each other in a bidding war . the tenant who win out , pay more than expect , then have no way to vet their landlord . some 21 % of privately rent property do not meet the decent home standard — a far high proportion than in both owner - occupy and socially rent home . with no landlord register , there be no way of know how well a give landlord treat their tenant and property . tenant be expect to leap into the unknown and just hope their property be up to scratch . if they move in and find their property be not up to scratch , the chance be that they would be unlikely to complain because , with section 21 no - fault eviction still in place , they do not have security . they can be kick out for no reason . the last Government sit idly by on this . almost a million renter have be give no - fault eviction since the Conservatives first pledge to scrap they . once they be evict , the whole frustrating process start again . with all this in mind , it be no wonder that housing insecurity in the private rented sector be high than for other tenure . renter be more likely to move often , stay in a property for an average of four year , compare with 12 year for those in social housing and 17 for homeowner . that insecurity mean a great risk of homelessness . nearly a quarter of homeless people , or those most at risk of homelessness , cite the end of a private tenancy as the main cause of their homelessness or risk . stress from insecure housing affect job prospect and health outcome . it can lead to mental health problem and difficulty sleep , and it can contribute to physical illness , too , particularly in child . it be astonish how under - regulate the private rented sector be . the decent home standard be not apply , and neither be Awaab ' s law , which set clear legal expectation about the timeframe within which landlord must take action to make home safe where they contain serious hazard . by pass this Bill , we will fix both those loophole . More than one in five of my constituent in North West Cambridgeshire be private tenant , and the chaos in the sector affect all age group . the stereotypical renter be often portray as young , but let we not forget the significant proportion of old people and pensioner who rent in the private sector — there be more than 1 , 000 in North West Cambridgeshire , accord to datum from the last census . the Bill will tackle the sector ' s problem head on . it mean strengthen right to challenge unreasonable rent increase . it mean an end to rental bidding , to landlord anonymity and to frightening , sudden and unjustifiable section 21 eviction . the Conservatives fail to protect private renter despite promise action for so long , so I be particularly pleased that we be introduce the Bill so soon into our time in office . the Bill ' s measure build on the Government ' s plan to create a housing sector that work for all , regardless of tenure . Manifesto commitment to make housing more affordable , to support first - time buyer and to prioritise the building of new socially rented home be exactly what we need , and I look forward to the publication of the Government ' s long - term housing strategy , which will set out these objective in more detail . I know how important this Bill will be for my constituent in North West Cambridgeshire . they deserve strong right and protection and , above all , security of housing , and we will deliver that . the rental sector be not work . nearly one fifth of household in England be in the private rented sector , and today these 4 . 6 million renter might be turf out of house and home with little notice and minimal justification . they be subject to steep rent increase , bidding war and discrimination for start a family or be on benefit , and too often they have to choose between give up a beloved family pet and be turf out on to the street . too many live in substandard or even dangerous accommodation , with limited recourse to hold landlord to account . as rent tick up above inflation like clockwork , save in any respect for renter have become a sisyphean task , mean that home ownership , parenthood and a basic sense of stability become impossible dream . in the past year , rent in Bracknell Forest have shoot up by almost 12 % — a figure far high than for the rest of the south - east and the UK . that be yet another damaging consequence of the conservative party ' s shocking mishandle of the economy , and the inevitable result of 14 year of failure to address the housing crisis . that be why my constituent , include a young couple who reach out to I recently , be keen to see the Bill pass . they have just have their first child , a daughter , and even after year of work , they can not afford a deposit while pay rise rent and meet increase food , energy and fuel bill . there can not be a grow future for a country that deny too many of its family the basic right to security and a decent home . the Bill bring forward long - overdue common - sense change to increase safety and fairness . it assert the right of tenant to make more decision about their home , and introduce a fair arbitration process for dispute and the right to request a pet — a welcome new right for the many animal lover in my constituency . the Conservatives say for year that they would end no - fault eviction . that claim be in both the 2019 and 2024 conservative party manifesto , though the shadow Secretary of State have today disown those commitment . the Labour party will not just talk about end no - fault eviction ; we will deliver on that . the Bill will also end rental bidding . this desperately need measure will stop private renter , who already have the short notice period in which to find accommodation of any household type , from be undercut at the last minute and leave scramble around for a replacement property , with the risk of have to pay more for something bad . the Bill introduce a mechanism through which renter can challenge unfair rent increase , while ensure that landlord can increase rent in line with market increase . it prevent tenant from be hit by multiple rent increase in a year . the Bill will also extend Awaab ' s law to the private sector for the first time , require private landlord to address issue such as damp and mould swiftly . the Government be bring in a new decent home standard , so that no one be force to live in unsafe accommodation . these measure will save life and end the discrepancy between the social and private rented sector . importantly , they will also level the play field for the many decent landlord across the country who already do right by their tenant , and who be too often undercut by far less decent landlord . these issue be find in my constituency and across the country , so it be a shame to see so few Conservative Members stand up for the renter in their constituency . the Bill will make renting easy , more affordable and more secure for tenant , while provide clarity and assurance to landlord . it will reset the balance between tenant and landlord , so that the system be fair for everyone . after five year of Tory talk about rental reform , Labour be get on and deliver real change for work people and renter in Bracknell Forest , and real change across England . I draw to the House ' s attention to the fact that my lovely husband work for the housing charity Shelter . I pay tribute to everyone who today make their maiden speech , which be nerve - rack . well do ; they have be excellent contribution . I welcome the Bill and thank the Minister for his diligence and personal determination to bring it to the House . it be a truly transformational piece of legislation that will dramatically improve the life of nearly 10 , 000 of my constituent in private rent accommodation in Darlington . the Bill deliver on our mission to break down the barrier to opportunity for everyone . in our manifesto , we pledge to offer family security , and I be proud that three month into our government , we be already forge ahead with that . in my constituency , we have really wonderful historical housing , from georgian mansion create to house the giant of the railway industry , to row of lovely bungalow build to house retire railway worker . across the town , people take pride in their house . the creativity show in people ' s garden , especially as we approach spooky season , bring joy to many of we who live there . that say , while most people live a decent life in my town , too many renting privately be struggle to get what I believe be a fundamental right — a secure and safe home . this Bill will help they . I will highlight a couple of story from my constituency to illustrate why we need this legislation . on a dark and rainy evening , I meet a woman who be a carer for a family member . she have pay her deposit , and pay her rent on time every month , yet she be not give a legal tenancy . she know she be vulnerable , but have nowhere to turn . the Bill will give she the right to contact , for free , a new private rent sector ombudsman , who will help she to sort out her situation . the Bill will give our council the power to administer fine to landlord who refuse to comply with the law . another of my constituent ' story highlight that the Prime Minister ' s support for well veteran ' right be desperately need . my constituent , a father and a veteran , have be serve a section 21 notice , mean that he will be evict without ground . he already have mental health challenge , and his elderly mother have offer to take he in , but she live in a small bungalow , and fear that that might jeopardise the agreement that give he share custody of his daughter . that be a wholly unacceptable way for anyone to be treat , let alone those who have serve our country . the Bill will help this family . ban section 21 no - fault eviction would give he more security . while I have choose to highlight two difficult case , it be vital that I commend the majority of landlord , who do right by their tenant . the Bill will help they , too . I ask the Minister to use the full potential of the landlord database to support tenant and good landlord alike . the landlord database could have a tenant portal , allow those who be look for rent property to see the tenancy advantage of have a good landlord . that would put those who do right by their tenant at a competitive advantage . the landlord database could also show aggregated average rent by postcode and property type , and at local authority level , so that tenant and landlord know what a fair rent rise would be ; that would alleviate the pressure on tribunal . I also want to highlight the provision end discrimination against those in receipt of housing benefit when it come to rent certain property . that be long overdue . those who have be unfairly ban from renting property — often work mother — will be help by the change . make that discrimination illegal be necessary , give the hugely deplete social housing stock in constituency such as mine , but I be proud to say that the Government will rebuild the housing stock . on the discrimination clause , I ask the Minister to give due consideration to indirect form of discrimination , such as the requirement from some landlord for several month ' rent in advance . that be unaffordable for many work people in my constituency . anything that can be do to stipulate a maximum of a reasonable number of week , such as four , would mitigate that . finally , the many pet owner and animal lover across the House will applaud the Bill . I welcome it , and the right of all tenant to secure tenancy , fair rent and good - quality home for their family and their furry friend . I thank the Minister for bring forward this legislation , which will have a significant impact on many of my constituent in Gillingham and Rainham , where the number of people live in the private rent sector have increase by 162 % in the last two decade . it be vital that the law catch up with the reality of people ' s life . that be why I be so proud that this Government have bring in the Bill at this point , when the previous Government fail to do so . the right of tenant do not have to be pit against those of landlord . have a system that be inherently fair , give renter stability and offer they the right to live in a home of a decent standard should not be see as an attack on landlord , many of whom be do the right thing . it should be see as an opportunity to create a healthy and stable private rent market that play a fundamental role in tackle the housing crisis , rather than add to it . like many colleague who have speak , I find that housing be the no . 1 issue that my constituent contact I about . some have raise the appalling condition that they live in but be too scared to raise with their landlord for risk of eviction . other be concerned about the significant rent hike that they face , which they can not afford , while many have receive a section 21 notice and have be force to leave the property that they have live in for decade , with no alternative . an insecure rental market place significant pressure on local council . my local authority , Medway , face budget pressure when it come to temporary accommodation — the cost be £ 3 million above what be forecast — and other authority be in a similar situation , or much bad . that be an unsustainable position for cash - strap council to face year on year . with that in mind , I welcome the stride that the Bill make in end rental discrimination ; it make it illegal to discriminate against those on housing benefit , and empower tenant to challenge unreasonable rent hike . there be also the much - need end to section 21 notice . I campaign for that while work for a homelessness charity , and the sector be deeply disappointed when the previous Government fail to deliver it . however , further safeguard be require to ensure that protection be robust , and there should be clear evidence threshold that enable tenant to understand well how they can benefit from the change in the law . that should also apply to the exemption that we have specify for landlord . for example , if a landlord choose to sell their property and , as a result , evict their tenant , the legislation should include a clear evidence baseline , set out the parameter for what be consider to be a genuine intention to sell . finally , local authority will be crucial to the Bill ' s success ; it place new regulatory and enforcement responsibility on they , so proper resourcing will be necessary to support that work . this important , much - need Bill have the ability to reform the sector robustly , and I hope the Minister will continue to review opportunity to ensure that it be strengthen as it progress . some 38 % of household in my constituency be in the private rent sector . in England , there be 11 million renter , and the number keep grow . they have be stick in a fail system for year . about one in three be in poverty once their housing cost be take into account , while no - fault eviction be a lead cause of homelessness . renter need great protection , security and right , but their voice and their interest have be ignore by previous government . the Conservatives first promise to end no - fault eviction in 2019 , but their Renters ( Reform ) Bill , already much delay , stall in the last Parliament — in no small part because of the influence of landlord in their party , some of whom we have hear from today — so this cruel threat of eviction , as the Secretary of State rightly describe it , be still hang over renter . the fact that we be on the precipice of ban no - fault eviction once and for all be a huge cause for celebration . I congratulate the Secretary of State and the Minister on introduce the Bill so swiftly , and I thank all who have campaign for this change for so many year , from tenant union to homelessness charity . the Bill will also extend the decent home standard and Awaab ' s law to the private sector for the first time . it will allow tenant to challenge above - market rent increase , and will give local authority strong power to crack down on unscrupulous landlord . it will create a national landlord register , give tenant more time to find a home if landlord evict they in order to move in or sell , and introduce the right to keep pet . these measure be vital , and the Bill must pass into law , but we need to go far still if we be to fix a system that be break to its core . we can not leave it to market to stop rent be hike to unaffordable level , so we should look seriously at rent control . we must also ensure that landlord can not get away with ignore the measure in the Bill . local authority need not only the power but the resource to investigate breach and enforce these measure , and not just the ability but a duty to issue civil penalty to landlord who illegally evict their tenant . renter want a home , not just a house in which to live temporarily . they want to build life in their community , not feel that they will soon be price out . give that one in three disabled renter live in home that be unsuitable for they , I urge the Minister to make it explicit in law that landlord can not unreasonably refuse home adaptation . reform the private rent sector be not just about do what be right for tenant ; it be about do what be good for our whole society . we will not tackle homelessness , poverty or inequality without it . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to support a Bill that finally end section 21 no - fault eviction and strengthen the right of the 20 % of household in the Medway town who be rent privately , and who have experience rent increase of , on average , 11 % in the past year alone . as a number of Labour Members have mention , the last Government fail repeatedly to end no - fault eviction , despite that be a manifesto promise . they therefore preside over a situation in which rent skyrocket , push even rent a home , let alone the dream of home ownership , out of many work people ' s capacity . I really welcome this long - overdue rebalancing of the relationship between landlord and tenant . from now on , unscrupulous and exploitative landlord will no long be able to ignore the concern of tenant , impose unreasonable rent increase or evict family because they ask for repair to substandard and often deficient home , often to remarket at a high rent . I welcome the Government ' s focus on reduce homelessness and the number of household in temporary accommodation . local authority datum show that about 509 household in Medway be currently live in temporary accommodation , include about 818 child . there must be great understanding of the detrimental impact on society of people be stick in cramped and unsuitable accommodation , and great recognition of the waste of valuable public resource that council be force to spend on temporary accommodation for those who have be make homeless by landlord use section 21 eviction . this be money that we should instead use to build the new , high - quality and sustainable social home for rent that the country sorely need . our aim must be to protect family from eviction from their home of many year , and from be uproot from their local community and social network . Anchorage House , in my constituency , be a perfect example of where an east London borough have place many people who have be evict in temporary accommodation . the child ' s ability to learn and the adult ' ability to work have be disrupt , and the health and wellbeing of entire family have often dramatically worsen . the steep social and financial cost of section 21 eviction be pay by council , school , workplace and the NHS , and this can not continue . we have to end the unhealthy reliance on a temporary accommodation system that really be not temporary for many people . the Bill strike the right balance by still provide landlord with reasonable ground for possession while end the constant churn . I have be greatly concern by the treatment of constituent who have be serve with section 21 notice and the huge challenge they face in secure new accommodation , and I really welcome the increase in the notice period for some of the mandatory ground for possession from two to four month . member should recognise that lose one ' s home create huge upheaval and that , with high demand for rental property , it can be very difficult to secure a new home . I can certainly speak to my personal experience of that . I echo Members ' call to make sure that local council have the right resource to enforce some of the new power , which I greatly welcome . I believe that I hear the Secretary of State indicate in her opening remark that there would be ringfence funding for that purpose , and I encourage the Minister and the Secretary of State to ensure that the detail come forward before the Bill receive Royal Assent . my constituent in Rochester and Strood really can not afford not to have this Bill become law . it will help so many individual and family , and create a well , fair private rent sector for tenant and landlord alike . I congratulate all member who have give their maiden speech today , and the Minister for Housing and Planning , my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , for all his hard work on this Bill . if I be honest , I be disappointed that the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , be not still with we — look at the face of Conservative Members , she appear to be unexpectedly busy — because she seem to argue that the challenge that the Government be create be to intervene poorly in a market . in the limited time available to I , I want to take on the challenge that she create , because I be not sure that she actually understand what this market be . that may well show in conservative member ' vote if they think they be vote for somebody who understand market economic . let we look at what we be talk about . in my constituency , we have have the big growth in affordable housing in London , yet we have also have a 55 % increase in homelessness . this be not a healthy market where there be effective competition , and where every participant have the tool to operate equally . let I try to explain through some of the story from my constituency . my constituent Kate , who work in the NHS on a nurse ' s salary , have have to move every single year , because landlord be sell property and put up price . that be not healthy — it be an overheated market . it mean that the state pick up the piece , through the salary we need to pay and to deal with the consequence for she and her family . my constituent Claire , who be self - employ , start rent her home for £ 1 , 750 a month in November 2019 , and it have increase by £ 200 by 2023 . she have now be threaten with another £ 400 a month raise , put her total rent up to £ 2 , 350 for the same property within five year . what power do my constituent have in that market , apart from to exit ? that be not a healthy , function market . we be see mould in property , so the quality of good in this market be not good enough . emily , a mum from Walthamstow , be scrub mould from the wall of her three - month - old son ' s room every single day . she eventually walk out because she find mould on the underside of her son ' s cot mattress . but she be afraid to complain because she be afraid of section 21 eviction power , so she do not even have the voice of exit the market . Albert Hirschman would be horrify . we have to end the scandal of no - fault eviction , and we have to deal with the mould . will the hon . Lady give way ? of course I will let the hon . Gentleman in . if he be go to make a declaration of interest , obviously I will let he intervene . the hon . Lady be make some excellent and valid point , but do she agree that the London borough of Waltham Forest should ensure that its resident who be homeless — our heart go out to those people — be care for and look after in Waltham Forest ? at the moment , her borough council be send her homeless constituent to the London borough of Havering . they be live in Harefield Manor in Romford . surely Waltham Forest should look after its homeless people in its own borough . I know that the conservative party be about to go down a rabbit hole about immigration , but honestly , move people from Walthamstow to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency be not the challenge here . we have a break rental market where the right of renter do not allow they to compete fairly . let I give the hon . gentleman another example so that I can explain the problem . the reason we need to tackle bidding war be that there be a straight - out conflict of interest affect the consumer . how can the person who represent they to the landlord also represent they fairly in a rental agreement ? it be little wonder that Catherine , one of my constituent , find that she have to offer £ 300 over the ask price to secure a flat in a bidding auction . that be why people from Walthamstow be be move out , and the hon . Gentleman would do well to think about sort that market out , rather than try to build a blockade on the a406 . discrimination against single parent be widespread in the market , by definition because of what happen when household need to rent property . Ruth , in my constituency , be a single mum with two young child . she be tell by agent , " Don ' t even bother apply . " she could pay the rent and she be entitle to housing , but she be not even entitle to compete in this market . in the final minute I have , I want to make a plea to the Minister about the credit rating of those in our private rent sector . it be not true that rent in the private sector automatically damage someone ' s ability to get a mortgage , but if they be have to move time and again , their credit rating clock go back to the start because lender look at their address , they have to re - register for all their utility bill and they have to keep build up their good record . that get take into account by some lender . People be find that this affect other form of credit , include the credit card that many of they be use to pay their bill . in my constituency , the average percentage of people ' s income spend on rent be 44 % . if they have kid and be try to pay for childcare , it do not take a rocket scientist or Ayn Rand to realise that this market be not work for they . I believe we could do more if we come up with a good credit score passport to help those constituent of mine and other , who be pay their bill but who have be evict through no fault of their own , not to lose their precious good credit rating . I hope the Minister will be willing to listen to some idea about how we can do that with the company . thank goodness for this legislation . it be long overdue , because tackle unfair market be absolutely what good co - operator like myself and good people who care about social justice wish to do , and I shall vote wholeheartedly for it as a result . I welcome the new Bill put forward by the Government . I only wish that Conservative Members have express as much interest and passion in this subject as they do yesterday when it come to defend tax break for private education . politic , as they say , be about priority , and the priority of this Government be clear . in my constituency of Crewe and Nantwich , I have be deeply sadden by the number of constituent I have speak to who be affect by this policy area , and shock at some of the individual story I have hear since take office . be able to rent in comfort and stability be a luxury for many of my constituent , which be why I support the ending of section 21 no - fault eviction . accord to report in Cheshire East , we have see 74 accelerate repossession order make this year alone , with 15 have be complete . one of the first case that I deal with after become an MP relate to this matter . my constituent Kerry , a single mother of two young child , have be threaten with no - fault eviction and be on the brink of homelessness . she be able to find accommodation with the support of my office , but this issue be neither isolated nor uncommon , as we have hear from many member today . these be the real , live consequence of 14 year of conservative failure . I be immensely proud that this Government be willing to take action where the previous Government dither and delay . have the previous Government enact their proposal rather than bow to the interest of their lobbyist , many vulnerable people across the country could have be spare both the mental and physical toll . the Bill also apply Awaab ' s law and introduce a decent home standard for the private sector . in 2022 , 32 % of private rent sector home in the north - west would have fail the decent home standard , the high proportion of any english region and high than the english average of 21 % . around 21 % of those home in the north - west contain a category 1 hazard , which be high than the english average of 12 % , and around 6 % of rented home contain damp or mould . this be nothing short of a crisis . the previous Government completely fail renter in my constituency and across the north - west of England . they fail , and they have leave it for this Labour Government to make the right decision so that we change people ' s live for the well . I believe that all the Government ' s proposal — end no - fault eviction , strengthen tenant ' legal protection , implement the decent home standard and establish a database for the sector — be important and sensible policy . they will be truly lifesave in some case , so I will be glad to vote for they . recent statistic show that 50 % of the private rent sector in Cornwall do not meet the decent home standard , way above the average of 21 % . Less than 20 % of home in Cornwall be in the private rent sector four year ago , yet a quarter of our child and young people be live in those home , include a third of our under - five . that have be evidence by the noticeable uptick in recent year of section 21 eviction that affect family with young child . Cornwall now have more than 800 household in emergency or temporary accommodation , and many of they be young family who have struggle to find somewhere else to live because of the cost , their child or even their cat . because of our geographical spread , many of those family have end up in holiday park , caravan site or hotel up to an hour and a half ' s drive from home . with poor rural transport link , this often leave family completely cut off from job , school and support network . in September 2020 , Cornwall council ' s economic growth committee publish an inquiry into the private rent sector in Cornwall and recommend a number of measure to extend license power . it also recommend datum gathering on landlord and tenant in the private rented sector , Disclosure and Barring Service check , long term and the limiting of annual rent increase . however , covid happen , further local government cut affected officer ' capacity and the council change to a conservative administration that be wary of upset landlord follow covid , so none of the recommendation be enact . regardless of the council ' s caution , the private rent sector have still be decimate in Cornwall , with many landlord sell up or flip to lucrative short - term holiday let . price have skyrocket , and many people be struggle to find a home , which be why I be so pleased and relieve that the Government have prioritise this Bill . it will bring in many of the measure propose by that cornish report — at last , we will end no - fault eviction , introduce long protect term and limit annual rent rise . Awaab ' s law will force landlord to follow strict timescale to inspect and repair home , include those with damp and mould , and the decent home standard will apply to the private rent sector for the first time , with local council give the power to fine landlord who fail to address serious hazard . many people be shut out of the market if they have child or pet , or be on benefit . change to stop that happening will prevent the most vulnerable in my constituency remain unhouse , and the heartache as people have to decide to give up treasure pet . the hon . Lady be make some compelling point and mention pet . do she remember the Dogs and Domestic Animals ( Accommodation and Protection ) Bill of 2020 , which I put to the House all those year ago ? I be glad that the measure in that Bill now be bring into legislation . do she agree that this Bill need to be extend far , so those in social housing , as well as those in freehold accommodation , can have a pet , so everyone can have a pet at home , and not lose their home because they love and care about their cherished animal ? I be not here when the hon . Gentleman introduce his previous Bill , but I be sure the Minister have consider the importance of pet to people live in all type of housing . the court system and local authority will need extra capacity to deal with the extra work create by the legislation . I be pleased to hear the announcement about digitisation and the ombudsman . the propose change will support the security of privately rent family in Truro , Falmouth and across Cornwall . as I have say , many people in Cornwall have be evict from their rent home with two month ' notice , so they can be use as short - term or holiday let . we know that Cornwall council be the local authority with the large supply of short - term let outside London . there be 24 , 300 holiday let property in Cornwall , up 30 % on 2019 . statistic from the council tax base tell we that over 13 , 000 second home be register in Cornwall , which be nearly 5 % of the total housing stock and five time high than the average across England . there be also 27 , 000 family on the waiting list for social housing , but Cornwall have only 10 , 000 council house and 22 , 000 housing association home . I be pleased that the Minister be consider a toolbox of measure that could be make available to local authority to discourage the further depletion of the private rent sector and full - time residential housing in Cornwall , such as the high council tax that be come in , licensing and registration , plan restriction and close the business rate council tax loophole . in conclusion , I very much welcome the Bill . it provide many benefit for the people in Truro and Falmouth who rely on the private rent sector for their home , and certainty for the landlord who provide those home . I congratulate member from across the House on their excellent , humorous and move maiden speech . Most landlord be good landlord and play a vital role in the housing market . I be glad that the Secretary of State change the name of the Bill from the Renters ( Reform ) Bill to the Renters ' Rights Bill , because decent housing be a human right . however , make that right meaningful to private rental have be render meaningless in recent year . bizarrely , but perhaps not surprisingly , that be because the right of those with vested interest have be allow to trump those of million of hard - work people , family and , especially , young people . it be part of what I call " the moon landing paradox " : human being can land a man on the moon and , here in the UK , we can build the Elizabeth line under London , but we can not provide decent , affordable private rent accommodation . we can do the spectacular , but not the simple . in previous Parliaments , I imagine constituent who ask their mps about the issue be often give the answer that provide such accommodation be too difficult . that be why I be delighted that this new Labour Government be simply not accept that something so fundamental to human dignity be too difficult . I wish to touch on a couple of area raise by my constituent in and around the town of Rugby . first , ensure that rent increase be more controlled and predictable will greatly help my constituent who have suffer from landlord demand rent increase with as little as 10 day ' notice . that be wrong and this Bill will protect people by reinforce the rule that rent can be increase only once a year and with at least two month ' notice . secondly , abolish section 21 no - fault eviction will help protect constituent such as mine who have be evict from their private rented property at short notice for no other reason . this have leave some of they on the street , render they homeless , which be shameful . support this Bill will give they great protection and peace of mind . preference the interest of ordinary work people over the vested interest of other require that we overcome what I term the " moon - land paradox " and achieve something that be obviously much need , that be a right and that should be possible in the year 2024 in a country as rich as ours . I know that this government can and will do it for the renter of Rugby and across the country . finally , when a constituent come to my next surgery , I be glad that I be one of an intake of mps who will be able to say , after many decade and thank to the effort of my right hon . friend , the Secretary of State , and her Ministers , that it be not too difficult , that it be doable and that soon it will be do . it be an honour to stand here today . I have work on these issue for more than 15 year . a decade ago , I run the " Evict Rogue Landlords " campaign at Shelter . I spend a decade on the board of the Nationwide Foundation , funding renter group and campaigner such as the Renter ' s Reform Coalition , and a happy year on the board of Generation Rent , which be end only by my election . there be so much to welcome in this Bill , but I be so sad that the Opposition Benches be so empty and that Conservative Members have waste so much time . I think that the shadow Secretary of State ' s speech be curious , trample on previous conservative promise on section 21 , cite stat source from landlord lobbyist about landlord leave the sector , and rewrite history about why the previous Tory Bill fail . it be quite a performance . represent Tipton , Wednesbury and Coseley , I stand to speak for those renter who use housing benefit to pay their rent . I be so glad that the Bill will end the disgraceful " no dss " policy . in the long term , the answer for most of my constituent who rent privately be a social home , and I would like to see the proportion of private rent property in my constituency reduce as we build the social rent home that we have promise . there be so much that be so good in this Bill . I think my second favourite measure be the application of the decent home standard to private renting . over the past 15 year , I have meet renter after renter live with damp drip down the wall , infestation , faulty electric , and landlord who just do not care — they do not fix it , but still take the rent every month — with temporary accommodation landlord often the bad . bring in Awaab ' s law and decent home , and support council to enforce the law will make the change and make every home safe . I wish to associate myself with the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) . at Shelter , a decade ago , I work with the Lullaby Trust to make sure that baby be safe in temporary accommodation and I be sad , angry and shock to hear of the death of 55 baby in temporary accommodation in the year since . but , without doubt , my favourite measure in the Bill be the end of section 21 . for once and for all , we will end the ability of landlord to throw people out of their home " just ' cos " . for 40 year , the card have be stack in favour of the landlord . today , we bring forward plan to rebalance the rule , so landlord can run their business , shoulder the appropriate level of risk , and renter know their home be theirs for as long they want it . my hon . friend make an incredibly salient point about family lose their home under section 21 . like other member , I be sure , I have an inbox full of such case — for example , a family with two child be chuck out of their home with no other option . do she agree that this Bill , bring in within the Government ' s first 100 day , will give the basic security of a family home to my constituent and other up and down the country ? my hon . friend will not be surprised to hear that I do agree . I have meet many of his constituent in Southampton Itchen while campaign with he over the year . I have see the condition that many of they and family in my own constituency live in , and I look forward to the security that the Bill will give they . I be so pleased and proud that we will bring this Bill forward straight away — no delay , no hold - up . load of renter out there be save for their next unwanted house move ; it take , on average , £ 1 , 700 to move house . they be worried that they may lose their home and be force out of the area where their kid go to school . I say to those renter today , " we ' ve get your back . you will be able to stay in your home — this will be law inside the year . take heart ! " if the landlord try to raise the rent so high as to amount to a de facto eviction , renter will finally have recourse : they can go to a tribunal and stop a rent rise above market rate . I gently say to the Minister that it would be good to understand how the tribunal will find out what market rate be ; as we all know , look at Rightmove will not help — that cover only new let , not all let in an area . but that detail be for later stage . what matter be this : no more no - fault eviction ; security and predictability for renting family ; right rebalance between renter and landlord ; safe home ; and proper action on rogue landlord . this have be a long time come , and I be so proud . it be a great privilege to follow that excellent speech . the Renters ' Reform Bill be potentially transformative for Kensington and bayswater , as it be for the whole country . nearly 45 % of my constituent be now private renter — a huge increase in the last decade and now the big tenure type by some distance . those renter pay the high rent in the country : an average rent of £ 1 , 600 per person . a rental property in my constituency now average £ 3 , 400 a month . yet despite the fact that those renter pay an increase proportion of their take - home pay each month in rent , I have be inundate since the general election with case of constituent face the major challenge that colleague have already highlight — section 21 eviction , damp and mould , slow repair , unaffordable rent hike , bidding war and a feeling of insecurity and lack of power that never leave a person under the current rule . I think of my former constituent Jean and Jack Franco , who live with their mum in a rental flat in north Kensington . after eight year of never miss a rent payment , they be serve a section 21 notice by an anonymous overseas landlord and give just week to leave . all their attempt to challenge the decision and engage the landlord fail . their request for just a few more week to find a new home be deny . the council be unable to help they , so Jack and Jean have to leave with their mum for a new part of London as rent in my constituency be so unaffordable . the let agent tell the Francos that the owner want to sell the property , but today that property be still be rent out , but at twice the rent that the previous family be pay — a back - door eviction by an anonymous landlord that this Bill would have stop . I also think of the constituent who I meet , along with the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister , around the table in north Kensington ; they could not even bring themselves to report the challenge with the condition of their flat for fear of a section 21 notice that could leave they on the street , sofa surf or scramble for temporary accommodation . this renter ' Bill be also for they . I want to focus on one critical area of implementation , the landlord register , which be a huge opportunity to give renter , landlord and local authority the information they need to ensure that standard be upheld and new right can be enforce . I note here my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , because I have work on a number of new government register in recent year , include the public register of beneficial ownership and the register of overseas entity . it be crucial to design they in a way that be as transparent as possible and do not create loophole . I ask the Secretary of State and the Minister to look at the detail of what will be in that register , include landlord and agent contact detail , detail of past enforcement action , eviction notice , safety information , information about accessibility and the rent be charge . if we include all those thing , we will have a genuinely useful register that will promote accountability and genuinely drive up standard . this game - change Bill should also not be see in isolation . the most exciting thing about today be the Government ' s commitment to attack our housing crisis from multiple angle : planning reform to build 1 . 5 million new home , include the big increase in social housing in a generation ; learn from Grenfell , and speed up the remedial work up and down the country ; accelerate implementation of the Social Housing ( Regulation ) Act 2023 , include Awaab ' s law ; a new decent home standard for social and private housing ; a crackdown on dirty money in luxury property ; and an end to the feudal leasehold system . this be a comprehensive — order . the hon . Member will know that there be a time limit , on which he be begin to stretch my patience . you will be pleased to know that I will keep it short , Madam Deputy Speaker . I join colleague in say that this be long - overdue and important piece of legislation . I commend my right hon . and hon . friend on the Front Bench for bring it to the House . for too long my constituent have endure insecure and inadequate private rental and the constant threat of no - fault eviction . last year alone , Bolton see the high rent increase of any area in the UK , at 14 . 8 % , accord to zoopla ' s UK rental market report . however , with the current proposal peg rent increase to out - of - control market rate , this Bill risk fail to protect low - income tenant in my constituency , where such rent increase can be an eviction by the back door . the introduction of in - tenancy rent cap , preferably tie to wage growth , would increase security of tenure and keep more tenant in their home for long . I urge the Secretary of State and Ministers to take that into consideration . I conclude by join colleague in welcome the Bill to the House and commend this government for the step we be take to ensure that everyone have a safe and secure roof over their head . thank you for call I to speak in this important debate , Madam Deputy Speaker . I , too , praise all the brilliant maiden speech that we have hear today . as I be one of — I believe — only three Welsh mp in the Chamber at the moment , right hon . and hon . member will be pleased to know that I do not intend to speak at length on this matter , which be devolve in Wales . I welcome this transformative Bill , which provide private renter in England with the long - term security and protection already grant to those in Wales . we hear the shadow Secretary of State speak early about deliver on manifesto . well , we have manage that in Wales , which show that if there be a sincere and genuine will to implement such measure , it can be do . abolish section 21 be crucial to reduce the threat of unfair eviction and the risk of homelessness . however , there be concern that landlord will still have the power to evict tenant without cause through excessive rent increase . what measure be the Government introduce to safeguard tenant from such process ? it be a pleasure to wind up for the Opposition in what have be a comprehensive debate . I add my thank to all member who make so many interesting point about different aspect of policy , but I would like to start with the contribution by the hon . member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) , who say that most landlord be good landlord . the english housing survey ' s most recent set of statistic , publish on 18 July 2024 , set out that private renter in England be the most satisfied of tenant in all type of tenure , more so than in social rent or any other kind , where the high level score between 51 % and 65 % . while all member will see in our constituency casework dozen of example of people in great difficulty as a result of problem in the private rented sector , on the whole this sector remain one that those who use it find to be valuable and a source of appropriate and affordable housing . therefore , the spirit in which we approach the Bill be that we need to ensure we put right the more egregious example of tenant or landlord be abuse and their good will or vulnerability be exploit in different way . my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , in her opening speech for the Opposition , set out some robust criticism of different aspect of the Bill and a strong defence of the previous Government ' s position on the implementation of the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , as be . it be clear that our approach during the passage of this legislation will be to work constructively to address those shortfall and deficit that we perceive in it , while recognise , as we do in the previous Government and as we have in manifesto — and as I think , from the speech , have be the case across party — the importance of get this right for renter . I have see the reality of such measure in Scotland , because these matter be devolve . they have drive up cost for renter , reduce choice , and make it exceptionally difficult to get that first home and almost impossible to get student accommodation in our wonderful university city . do my hon . friend agree that it be important that we get this right , and if we be to do so we be go to need change ? my hon . friend represent Dumfries and Galloway and therefore know a great deal about the impact that these measure have , because he have see at first hand the impact on his constituent . I agree with he entirely , and it be important to draw out his point that they will have an impact not simply on those who be private renter in the traditional sense ; this be part of a wide rental market , as many member have note , which include everything from temporary accommodation to short - term let , which be to a degree an unregulated market into which some landlord be move . there will be a huge impact on student across our university town . the private rented sector be use by local authority to find accommodation for those in social housing need , and the social rent sector and our housing association will be impact too . of course , there will be a degree of impact on owner - occupation as well . reflect on the speech of Members , it be clear , as the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) say in her contribution , that we be increasingly reach many of the key milestone in our life later on , include acquire our first home as an owner , have our child and get our settle career . that be one of the reason why we in the Opposition party , as we do in government previously , recognise the importance of get thing right in the private rented sector , because it will represent an increase proportion of tenure in our country in future . I will try to draw together a number of the point make — I appreciate that the Minister will do the same for the point make by his colleague ; I will endeavour to do my good for those on the Opposition side . as well as the point make in the introduction by my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex , my hon . friend the Member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) share the experience of be a local authority cabinet member in a part of our country with a combination of high - density modern housing in city and surround rural area , something more characteristic in the market of the United Kingdom than be the case in London , where my own constituency be locate . indeed , the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) speak of similar experience . that illustrate a point that some scoff at : landlord exit the private rent market mean not that the brick and mortar disappear , but that the home be no long available to the private rent market . it may be available to owner occupier , it may be available to short - term let , and it may be convert into other type of accommodation , but it represent a net reduction in the supply of private rent home in that location . it be absolutely correct to draw attention to the impact of that on our community . you make the point that you think the property might change into home ownership or another form of tenure . what evidence do you have that the property would not remain in the private sector under a different type of landlord ? the argument that you and other conservative Members continually make be that — order . I remind the hon . Lady that when she say " you , " she be address I . I have not make any point in this debate . the argument that have be make by those on the Opposition Benches be that private rent home be at risk of be lose to the sector , but that do not really stand up if other landlord purchase those home . in Scotland , where similar regulation have be implement , there have be an exodus from the market of small private landlord in particular , and those property have fall into other kind of tenure . if the supply of home remain the same and it have a zero - sum impact on the market , there would of course be no requirement for a Renters ' right Bill at all , because everybody would find a home on one kind of tenure or another , but we know , because of the increase proportion of people in the United Kingdom look to the private rent sector to access the kind of home they need , that this will be incredibly important . do the hon . Member agree that it be precisely those small individual landlord who struggle to keep up with decent renting regulation , even as minimal as it be now ? they make up the majority of the rogue landlord that many of we have hear about in our constituency surgery . frankly , it be often a good thing that small landlord who be unable to provide decent property and keep up with legislation get out of the market in favour of those who can . the hon . member raise a good point about rogue landlord . let we reflect on some of the complaint that we have hear . ant infestation , widespread evidence of mould cause health problem , the dilapidation of communal area , a prohibition on tenant seek to rent while on benefit and a failure to comply with licensing law — just some of the complaint make by the tenant of the hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) , but they be widely represent across the market . they be the reason we need to get enforcement action against rogue landlord such as that Member right . on enforcement , the Secretary of State say in open the debate that she be keen to ensure that there be an effective fine regime so that those who breach the rule can be hold to account . we in the opposition have a genuine concern about get that right . there be a number of different area of local authority activity in which enforcement be essentially a net cost to the council tax payer , because even when cost be win and fine levy , they be nothing like the cost of carry out investigation , build the evidence base and take the require enforcement action . if we be to ensure that rogue landlord act in breach of exist law be hold to account by local authority use those power , we need to ensure , during the passage of the Bill , that the resource that be expect to arrive through the method of enforcement and fining be sufficient to make the process self - sustaining , or that the Government have alternative measure in mind to ensure that local authority can access those resource by other mean . that be a long - stand issue and have be a factor for government of all party . it be certainly a challenge in my 24 year in local government , under Labour and conservative Governments . we need to ensure , in the interest of our tenant , that we get this right as far as we can . as the hon . Gentleman will know from his experience in local government , the challenge be that the exist legislation rely on our constituent have the confidence to come forward , whether they be face mould or unfair practice , and the evidence show that the threat of a no - fault eviction mean that many do not come forward . do he therefore recognise that simply oppose no - fault eviction and rely on the exist enforcement regime mean consign people in an unfair market to silence and suffering ? as a constituency Member of Parliament and former councillor , I entirely recognise the hon . Lady ' s point , but what the hon . member for Rugby say be significant because we need to recognise that 76 % of tenant in the private rent sector report a high level of satisfaction , a much high level of satisfaction than be find in other form of housing tenure . if we be to strike the appropriate balance in this debate in the Parliament of the nation , we have to recognise that the vast majority of landlord provide a good , important and high - quality service , and make sure that the legislation we take through to address the difficulty and challenge that our constituent — citizen — experience be proportionate . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make some progress and move on to another area that have be debate . I know that the Minister will wish to have time to sum up on many of these point as well . a number of member , include my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) , highlight the need for appropriate measure to support student in the rented sector . a good many landlord ' organisation have make the point that the Government ' s intention to change the tenant and landlord ' s full freedom of contract will have an impact , especially on student who wish to rent a property for the entire duration of their course . we need to ensure that there be appropriate flexibility in respect of student property , so that student at university can find the housing that they need and landlord be not discourage from enter that market , and so that the point raise by my right hon . friend be address . we do not want a situation in which a landlord , wary of a two - month notice period , decide to take the property off the student market and put it somewhere else , in a way that perhaps address housing need less , and fail to support the local economy in the way that student housing would have . that lead I to a point that I know we will explore in Committee : how freedom of contract particularly impact constituent who struggle to pass the kind of credit check and landlord insurance check that be common in the private rent sector . we all have example of people who have face bankruptcy proceeding and enter into individual voluntary arrangement to address significant financial difficulty , and who then get themselves back on their foot ; but who , when face eviction , have find it impossible to find a landlord willing to rent to they . those people be not eligible to access social rent housing , because they have a job and an income , but can not access the kind of housing that lock they into a regular payment contract . however , they may be able to offer a significant up - front payment of rent — potentially many month ' rent , or even a year ' s rent — to secure a property . that give the landlord the certainty they need , and it also give the person the guarantee of the home they need . we need to address that issue , because the implementation of a number of financial arrangement by previous government have create both an opportunity for people to get back on their foot after financial difficulty , and a challenge in access a long - term home in the rented sector . as we proceed with this Bill , it be clearly important that policy be base on evidence . have speak to the Minister and many of his colleague about the Bill , I know that there will be a high degree of cross - party agreement on some of the point that be discuss . however , I would like to bring this debate back to the key concern that we in the conservative party have , which have be express by a number of member : we need to ensure an appropriate supply of housing in the private rented sector , so that citizen who need to access those home can do so . we remain a party that respect and support the aspiration of home ownership . just like all other important life stage , our constituent be reach that life stage later in life than have be the case historically . we be in a world where people do not typically leave school or university and spend 40 year work in the same business and live in the same town . People move around and move home to adapt to change need be a key issue that we need to address . even those wish to downsize and look for a small property later in life — the last - time buyer market , as the industry like to describe it — have their equivalent in the rental sector : people look for accommodation that come with a package that provide sufficient care and support . the choice to move into high - quality accommodation of that nature in the private rent sector can free up family home that be in short supply . all these thing need to be see in the round . of course , most Members of Parliament be tenant — not all of we ; those of we who commute be not — and will have experience of the London rental market . luckily , member of Parliament in that situation have the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority to back they up , but that experience highlight the significant difference we see across the region and geography of the United Kingdom . my outer London constituency be dominate by owner - occupier , but have a vibrant rental sector and a significant number of retirement home . the population and the need be significantly different from the population and need in a university town full of young people look to secure student accommodation , or look for a good - quality private rent home for a short period while they get their first job and get their foot on the property ladder . we need to support that market effectively , and to get it right . we need a balance that avoid over - regulation and the unintended consequence about which my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex speak so eloquently . regional variation be highlight by a good many member . place be convert into holiday home do not tend to be a significant issue in the London suburb . however , we have hear from colleague in this House , as we do during the last Parliament , about the massive impact that that have in many of our coastal town and city . the impact be not just on those in need of social housing , and those struggle to access , through social rent , accommodation in the private rental sector , but on those in other part of the country where the local economy have be significantly change as a result of those issue . no debate about housing can be allow to pass without mention of the impact of our Home Office contract to secure accommodation for those in our asylum system . we know from feedback that many member of Parliament have provide from around the country that in some area , that have a significant impact . the initial very good intention behind those Home Office contract be to disperse asylum seeker await a decision to privately rent accommodation in part of the United Kingdom where there be accommodation surplus to the need of the community . that be why those contract — run now by three private organisation , but run previously by the Home Office , and originate by the now Mayor , Andy Burnham , when he be a Home Office Minister — use that supply of accommodation . however , we be begin to hear , as we learn in debate about the use of migrant hotel and so on in the past , that the policy have , in some area , take a significant share of accommodation that would otherwise be available to the private rent sector . while it be absolutely right that we seek to reduce the cost to the taxpayer of people stay in hotel , we need to ensure that decision making do not simply tick the " out of hotel " box , and respect the need and expectation of the community . in particular , give that it be always the low - cost accommodation that the Home Office will seek to rent , we need to ensure that the policy do not have an inappropriate impact on those await housing through the local authority , or seek the least expensive accommodation in the private rent sector . all these different issue — temporary accommodation , short - term let for student , accommodation for asylum seeker and owner - occupation — be impact by this debate . I hope that the Minister will accept that we approach this topic in a constructive spirit , and that our challenge , as we go through the next stage of the Bill , aim at address the issue to get the Bill right . my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) and the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) all bring their direct personal experience to this debate , and set out why the point raise at the very start of this debate be so significant . my hon . friend be make a very important speech . do he agree that it would be very helpful for the whole House if the Government publish an impact assessment on the effect of the Bill , and do he understand why that have not happen ? I be sure the Minister will have hear that question and will address it , but there be a consistent pattern . a number of member reference yesterday ' s debate on vat on school fee , in which that point emerge , too . while we can see , for example , that there be a significantly high proportion of pupil from ethnic minority in private school than in the state sector , the Government can not supply an equality impact assessment for their policy on vat on school . there seem to be a similar trend emerge with the winter fuel payment , and with the Renters ' Rights Bill ; the Government say that it be very important that we get the policy right , but can not supply evidence that they have properly consider the equality impact and the wide impact , although much of that be enshrine as a legal requirement under the previous Labour Government . in wind up — [ interruption . ] I hear a cheer . that be the first , but I hope not the last , cheer I enjoy in this Chamber in my parliamentary career . this Bill be an opportunity to get thing right for renter . we know that be a high priority for all political party in this Chamber . we can all see the impact that the private rental sector have on housing supply in this country . we want to make sure that the sector continue to be an important , supportive and appropriate source of home for people , and that it interact effectively with other source of accommodation . if we be to do that , we need to get this legislation right . dare I say that the acid test will be future housing survey ? if the high satisfaction rate remain buoyant , perhaps the legislation have be right . if we fail to get it right , private tenant will be considerably less satisfied , and that will require the House ' s attention again . it be a real pleasure to close this second read debate , and I thank all hon . and right hon . member who participate in it . member from all part of the House have speak with passion and clarity , and there have be a large number of outstanding contribution . I pay particular tribute to the six member who make their maiden speech this afternoon , include my five hon . friend on the Government Benches . the quality be uniformly high , and I wish each of they well in their parliamentary career . I be encourage by the broad support express today for the main principle of the Bill . the current system for private renting be break , and renter have be demand change for year . that be why , as my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister make clear in open the debate , the case for fundamentally reform England ' s insecure and unjust private rented sector , and take decisive action to drive up standard in it , be as watertight as they come . the experience of renting privately must be improve . it already would have be , to an extent , have the previous Government not buckle under pressure from vested interest in the die month of the last Parliament . this Labour Government will succeed where the Conservative Government fail by finally modernise regulation of the sector . in contrast to the previous Government ' s attempt , we will do so in a way that truly deliver for renter , as well as for good landlord , by address the numerous defect , deficiency , omission and , most importantly , fatal loophole that the previous Government ' s legislation contain . do the Minister agree that this legislation will help not only the many people in the private rented sector , but charity , such as the one I work for in Harlow , which help people who be homeless to get into the private rent sector ? would he also agree that this legislation could have come much soon ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we think that the legislation will take the burden off advice charity . the database provision will ensure that tenant and landlord have access to information , and know well what be require from they under the new system . it be absolutely right that we move at pace to get the legislation through the House . during the many hour we have debate the Bill , an extremely wide range of issue have be raise , and I will seek to respond to as many as possible in the time available to I . first , I want to address the reason amendment table by the Opposition . my opposite number , the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , strike a constructive tone , but when the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , make the case for the reason amendment , we be treat to a bizarre spectacle ; she chide we for copy and paste many of the sensible provision in the previous Government ' s Bill , but then tell we that those provision would have " add to the chaos " . the problem be that she support that legislation at every stage . she vote for its second reading ; she support it through Committee ; and she vote for the carry - over motion to see it progress . she vote for it on Report and Third Reading , and take it into wash - up . she now ask we to accept that she believe it be flawed all along . well , party leadership election contest can do funny thing . she may not have confidence in her manifesto — which , let I remind she , state that the Government at that time be commit to pass renter reform along the line of their previous legislation — but we have confidence in ours and we be determined to deliver it . will the Minister give way ? no . the right hon . Member have have her time . we strongly refute the central contention in the reason amendment that the Bill fail to provide security and affordability for private renter or to respect the property right of landlord and that it " will reduce the supply of housing in the private rent sector " . the Bill strike the right balance between the interest of landlord and tenant . while we acknowledge that it will take time for the sector , include build to rent provider , to adjust to a significant change in regulation , we do not believe that this legislation will have a harmful impact on future rental supply — which , by the way , we be take step to boost , not least by provide more opportunity for investment in a grow build to rent sector . the reasoned amendment be weak and disingenuous . I urge colleague to vote it down when we arrive in the Lobby in a few minute . let I turn to a set of specific issue refer to in the reason amendment and raise by a number of hon . member in the debate : namely , tenancy reform , fix - term tenancy and court improvement . the move to a new single system of periodic tenancy be at the heart of the Bill . the introduction of the new tenancy regime will see the end of fix - term tenancy and the long - overdue abolition of section 21 no - fault eviction . as a result , tenant will enjoy great stability and security , and landlord will benefit from clear and expand possession ground to evict tenant in circumstance where that be justified and reasonable . to avoid confusion and to ensure that renter on exist tenancy do not have to wait even long for the threat of arbitrary eviction to be lift , we intend to apply the new system to all tenancy in a single stage . we will appoint the commencement date by regulation at an appropriate interval after Royal Assent . our intention be to give the sector as much notice as possible . a number of hon . member mention fix - term tenancy . I want to be clear that it be the Government ' s firm view that there be no place for fix term in the future assure tenancy system . fix term mean that renter be oblige to pay rent regardless of whether a property be up to standard , and they reduce renter ' flexibility to move when they need to . it be right that the Bill ensure that all tenancy will be periodic in future , end the injustice of tenant be trap pay rent for substandard property . good landlord have nothing to fear from this change , either . tenant simply do not move house unless it be absolutely necessary . when they do leave , they will be require to provide two month ' notice , give landlord sufficient time to find new tenant . nor will the PRS become an Airbnb - lite , as some have suggest . tenant will still have to pay up to five week ' deposit , complete referencing check and commit for at least two month . lock tenant in for long with fix - term tenancy would mean people be unable to leave dangerous situation and be trap in situation , for example , of domestic abuse . we be not prepared to accept that . ensure that the Courts and Tribunals Service be prepare for the implementation of the new system be essential . I take on board the challenge that many hon . member , include Opposition Front Benchers , put to we in that regard . in consider the potential impact of the Bill on the county court , it be however important to bear in mind that most tenancy end without court action be need . it would also plainly be wrong to assume that all eviction that presently occur follow a section 21 notice will in future require court proceeding under section 8 ground . one of the main effect of the Bill will be to reduce the number of arbitrary eviction that take place . that say , we recognise that landlord need a reliable and efficient county court system to ensure that they can quickly reclaim their property when appropriate , and that we need a well - function tribunal process to resolve dispute in a timely manner . we agree that improvement to the court and tribunal be need to ensure that the new system function effectively . as my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister say at the outset of the debate , we be work closely with colleague in the Ministry of Justice to ensure that they be make , and explore option for improved alternative dispute resolution so that only case that need a judgment come to court . do that mean there will be more funding for the court ? I will bring forward further detail as the Bill progress , but those conversation with Ministry of Justice colleague be ongoing , and they be constructive . we want to get to a place where the system be ready to take the new tenancy provision forward . we will not act precipitously , and what we be not prepared to do — this be the most important point on court — be make the necessary and long - overdue transformation of the private rent sector contingent on an unspecified degree of future court improvement subjectively determine by Ministers , as the last Government propose in their Bill . we be determined to move quickly to give renter the long - term security , right and protection they deserve . a number of hon . member raise the issue of standard , and many share horrific story of tenant trap in substandard property . it be essential , in the Government ' s view , that we take decisive action to tackle the blight of poor - quality , privately rent housing and to ensure landlord be require to take swift action to respond to serious hazard . the Minister be give an excellent speech . landlord in Stoke - on - Trent have tell I that they welcome any move that drive the rogue landlord out of the system . that be because rogue landlord undercut the market and prey on the vulnerable and those lock into low - income job by offer relatively low - rent accommodation , safe in the knowledge that if they complain or seek any form of improvement , they be simply out , to be replace by somebody else who be desperate . while my hon . friend be talk about improvement to the landlord system , will he say more about how good landlord welcome the Bill ? my hon . friend be right . we have engage constructively and intensively with tenant representative group and with landlord body . Most of they will say that what he describe be part of the problem , because they represent the well end of the market , and that good landlord welcome the new system because it forcefully target the unscrupulous landlord , mainly at the bottom end of the market , who bring the whole sector into disrepute . that be one reason why the characterisation of this Bill as overly pro - tenant and harmful to , and unwelcomed by , landlord be misplace . good landlord should welcome this legislation . I welcome the support express on both side of the House for the provision that will see a decent home standard apply to the private rent sector and Awaab ' s law extend to it . it be important that we get the detail right , and I assure the House that we intend to consult on the content of the decent home standard for both social and privately rent home , and on how Awaab ' s law will apply to the latter , give the obvious difference between the private and social rented sector . I want to respond briefly to a question pose by the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) . I thank he for his kind remark about I in his speech . the approach we be take in this Bill to apply and enforce the decent home standard to the private rent sector be not , in our view , suitable for the unique and distinct nature of Ministry of Defence accommodation , but I hope he will welcome the fact that the MOD be review its target standard so that we can drive up the quality of that accommodation separately from the Bill . a large number of hon . member raise concern about affordability , and several argue forcefully for rent control to be incorporate in the Bill . while we recognise the risk pose to tenant by extortionate within - tenancy rent rise , we remain opposed to the introduction of rent control . we believe they could make life more difficult for private renter , both in incentivise landlord to increase rent routinely up to a cap where they might otherwise not have do , and in push many landlord out of the market , thereby make it even hard for renter to find a home they can afford . however , we be introduce a range of measure in the early part of the Bill that will empower renter to challenge unreasonable rent increase and prevent rent hike from be use as a form of back - door eviction . measure in the Bill will prevent unscrupulous landlord from use rent increase in this fashion . all rent increase from private landlord will take place via the exist section 13 process , so the tenant can challenge they if necessary . that will protect landlord ' right to achieve market rent while prevent abuse . we will also give tenant long to prepare for rent increase , and allow only one rent increase per year . for too long — this be reflect in the low number of tenant go to tribunal — tenant have fear challenge a rent increase at the first - tier tribunal . we will end this situation by ensure , by contrast to the previous Government ' s legislation , that a tenant will not pay more than the landlord ask for in circumstance where a tribunal might determine otherwise . we be go far : we will end the practice of backdate rent increase , to stop tenant be thrust into debt if they take a case to tribunal . that would have act as a powerful disincentive for tenant to take such case to tribunal . let I be clear : we do not want the tribunal overwhelm , but we want more tenant to take a challenge against unreasonable rent increase to the tribunal . the tribunal will play an important role in look at what a reasonable market rent be in their area , and assess whether a particular rent increase be reasonable . to protect the most vulnerable resident , in case of undue hardship , the tribunal will be able to delay the start of the rent increase for tenant catch in those particular circumstance . I thank the Minister very much for his brilliant synopsis of what have happen today . how will tenant and landlord be able to put their case to the ombudsman without have to go through the court ? how will that give tenant more reassurance ? if my hon . friend will allow I , I be about to come to the ombudsman , but I would like to make a point about affordability . concern be express by several hon . member about rent in advance . I would like to assure the House that we have long recognise that demand for extortionate rent in advance put financial strain on tenant and can exclude certain group from rent all together . we think that the Bill as it stand protect renter against request for large amount of advanced rent , but I will happily continue to engage with individual and organisation who have concern that it do not , and I be entirely open to keep that under review as the Bill progress . my hon . Friend mention the ombudsman . the database be also a feature of the Bill , and both be integral to the functioning of the new system . we want the database and the ombudsman to be operational as soon as possible and we think they could be transformative — particularly the database , for the information it can give tenant about landlord ' previous behaviour . all that detail be to come in secondary legislation , and I look forward to engagement from hon . friend and colleague across the House about how we should implement both the database and the ombudsman . my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , Chair - elect of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee — I say that carefully as she do not have a Committee yet — ask specifically which organisation will deliver the new PRS ombudsman service . no final decision on a provider have be make , but the Government remain of the view that the housing ombudsman be currently well place to take on the role , give that it would allow we to move toward a streamlined cross - tenure redress service . a number of hon . member raise specific issue relate to the impact of the new tenancy system on the student rental market . the provision that we ultimately alight upon enable student to benefit from the new system while protect the supply of student accommodation . however , this be an area where the judgment be finely balanced . I have hear various concern , and I look forward to future discussion as the Bill progress . lastly , a large number of hon . member rightly raise concern about the ability of local authority to enforce against landlord and let agent who flout the new rule . the enforcement of all the measure in the Bill will not begin immediately , but I recognise the resource challenge that many local authority face and the impact that they could have on effective enforcement . we think that these be offset to an extent by the ringfenced civil penalty that council can levy when landlord do not comply with the new rule , but we accept that those alone will not be sufficient , so in accordance with the new burden doctrine , we will ensure that additional burden on local authority result from our reform be fully fund . it be now five and a half year since England ' s 11 million private renter be first promise the big overhaul of the sector for a generation and the abolition of section 21 eviction . those 11 million private renter be badly let down by the previous Conservative Government , who decide under pressure from their Back Benchers to weaken and delay the introduction of their own legislation before abandon it all together . they be be badly let down today by the official Opposition , who , in argue for yet more delay , would see thousand more renter unnecessarily put at risk of homelessness because of an unfair eviction , and would prolong the uncertainty that responsible landlord across the country have experience in recent year . we will not allow that to happen . today , we have the opportunity to progress legislation that will overhaul the private rent sector and level decisively the play field between landlord and tenant . our Bill will empower renter by provide they with great security , right and protection so that they can stay in their home for long , build life in their community and avoid the risk of homelessness . everyone deserve a decent , safe , secure and affordable home in which to live . with a view to take an important step towards make that a reality , I commend this Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Jeremy Wright Mike Wood Louie French Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Alistair carn Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Gerald Jones Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 104 , Noes 424 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . question agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . renter ' right Bill : Programme Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Renters ' right Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 28 November 2024 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . renter ' right Bill : Money King ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Renters ' Rights Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( a ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State ; and ( b ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . renter ' right Bill : Ways and Means Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Renters ' Rights Bill , it be expedient to authorise : ( 1 ) the charging of fee under or by virtue of the Act ; and ( 2 ) the payment of sum into the Consolidated Fund . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . business without Debate Adjournment ( November and Christmas Recesses ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 25 ) , that this House , at its rise on Wednesday 6 November 2024 , do adjourn until Monday 11 November 2024 ; and at its rise on Thursday 19 December 2024 , do adjourn until Monday 6 January 2025 . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . high Education : Staffordshire Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) it be a real pleasure to lead my first Adjournment debate as the Member of Parliament for Newcastle - under - Lyme . I would like to wish my neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) a very happy — if I may say — 40th birthday , and I be pleased that she be spend it in the Chamber with we this evening . there be no well way to spend a birthday than talk about the wonderful county that we represent in this House . Newcastle - under - Lyme be home to many excellent place of learning , and with high education in mind , none more so than Keele University . I consider it a real privilege to be Keele ' s Member of Parliament , and that be why I apply for this debate tonight . high education in Staffordshire be primarily deliver through two university : Keele University in my constituency , and the University of Staffordshire base in Stoke - on - Trent . I will broadly focus my remark on Keele , where I look forward to welcome most of my Staffordshire colleague tomorrow . this have be an important year for almost everyone in this House , and for people across our United Kingdom . we have have a change of Government — I welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) , to her place — and we have begin the work of get our country back on track . however , 2024 be also important because Keele University in Newcastle - under - Lyme mark the 75th anniversary of its foundation as the first new university of the 20th century . Keele University be bear from a pioneering vision of a different kind of university . it be establish in 1949 by Lord Lindsay , the former vice - chancellor of Oxford University , in a country still recover from the second world war . the university ' s found aim be to produce graduate who not only have the technical and specialist knowledge to move society forward , but who understand the social and political landscape that drive this need . fast - forward 75 year , and this original ethos remain at the core of the university ' s mission . a global network of over 100 , 000 alumnus in 120 country be create a positive impact across the world in a range of diverse career , include serve in this House . I be personally pleased that one of my cousin be study medicine at Keele . he have just start his second year , which mean he be able to vote for I in July — at least he tell I he do ! Keele currently rank in the golden quadrangle of the top 15 university in England that excel in both teaching and research . all have a gold award in the teaching excellence framework and high research intensity in the most recent research excellence framework . I be pleased that Keele , and therefore Staffordshire , be a sector leader in sustainability , tackle the world ' s big problem through its research and educating tomorrow ' s leader to help shape a bright future . Keele ' s research expertise and passion for sustainability be renowned around the world , which be why the university be name global sustainability institution of the year in 2021 . Keele ' s economic impact be create not only by directly employ about 2 , 000 people , but by spend with local supplier and contractor , with neighbouring business and resident be the primary beneficiary . Keele be one of the large employer in Newcastle - under - Lyme , and it be a local employer , too . thirty - nine per cent of its workforce live in the ancient borough of Newcastle - under - Lyme , with a further 31 % live in Stoke - on - Trent . Keele have a real commitment to be a good neighbour , and it have provide more than 2 , 000 support interaction with local organisation since 2016 . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate . as he say , our area be bless with many exemplary high education institution , many of which be connect by the A50 / a500 . do he agree that upgrade to this road be essential to allow our constituent easy access to university , and to enable great collaboration across our local university ? my hon . friend and near neighbour have make an excellent submission ahead of the Budget , and I be sure the Minister will relay that point to Treasury colleague . he make an important point about connectivity , accessibility and the importance of a transport network that allow people both to benefit from our high education institution and to contribute to our local economy . Keele ' s legacy and commitment to the wide community be why it be name among the UK ' s good university at contribute to local growth and regeneration in the recent iteration of the knowledge exchange framework run by Research England . Keele , work with the Bar Council , have advance the " Keele in Town " programme , which will see the transformation of an empty 19th - century building in the heart of Newcastle - under - Lyme town centre into a mixed - use facility for the community . it will be kitte out with modern working and meeting space , offer digital connectivity to the community and help to drive productivity . will my hon . friend give way ? I will happily give way to another good man from Staffordshire . it be wonderful to contribute to this debate . I have to intervene when my hon . Friend speak about university campus , and about university building in city centre . my Lichfield constituency do not have a large university campus , but we do have a small satellite campus of the University of Staffordshire that support our local economy and ensure that much of Staffordshire ' s learning be reinveste through its business village . do my hon . friend agree about the importance of make sure that the wealth of these institution be share across the entire county , so that everybody can benefit from their investment ? I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) — it be an honour and a privilege to say those word ; I do not think many on the Labour Benches think we would be able to say they . what an excellent decision the people of Lichfield make on 4 July . he raise an important point , because ensure that people from all background and community can access and benefit from education be something that I know this Government will advance . I thank he for make such a powerful point . on that point , will my hon . friend give way ? I will happily give way to my constituency neighbour . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate . will he join I in recognise the excellent work do by organisation across our area to help young people access high education ? for example , my former employer , the ymca , receive the Queen ' s award for promote opportunity for the work it do with the University of Staffordshire ' s " step up to high education " programme . the YMCA now get around 10 young people off to university every year and , under the leadership of Danny Flynn and his committed team , it share our value of promote opportunity for all . another example of the great decision the people of Staffordshire make be that my hon . friend be now sit on the Government Benches as the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North , which we be all grateful for . he raise an important point for two reason : first , Danny Flynn be a constituent of mine , in Newcastle - under - Lyme , and have spend many year do amazing work with his team at the North Staffordshire YMCA , base in — base in my constituency . I be just about to say that it be base in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) . secondly , the organisation have an undiluted and clear commitment to ensure that people from many different background be able to access the opportunity they need and deserve in order to meet their full potential . I commend the hon . gentleman for his presentation . I have watch he during his time in the new Parliament and have be greatly impressed , not just because of what he do but because of our friendship long before he come to the House . he marry a girl from Northern Ireland so that make he part northern Irish . it be great to hear about what be go on in education in his area , but I have concern about the pressure on our young people in high education . do he agree that those pressure be great than ever , include financial pressure and societal expectation ? we need great mental health support for our high education student , as well as financial help for a generation of student whose student loan debt be high than at any time in the past . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention — it would not be an Adjournment debate without it . he raise an important point that I will come to later in my remark . it be not just the financial pressure that young people face that have an impact on their mental health . other pressure include the inability to secure affordable , accessible and safe place to live , as well as try to keep down a job and study at the same time , which be push and cause by some of the financial pressure that he refer to . I thank he for his kind comment — I be not sure whether that be well for his street cre or for mine , but I take the compliment . the " Keele in Town " programme will see an empty 19th century building , in the heart of Newcastle - under - Lyme town centre , make into a mixed - use facility for the community . I have already touch on this , but it be important . it will have meeting space offer digital connectivity to the community , help to drive productivity and boost skill level . the programme include work with our brilliant local FE institution . I thank my hon . friend for secure the debate and promote my ex - employer , Keele University , which be an interest I declare . I recently have the great honour of visit the Burslem campus of the prestigious Stoke - on - Trent College , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) , to meet with apprentice , include inspirational young people such as Robbie and superb employer such as Carson Powell Construction . do my hon . friend agree that apprenticeship , include degree - level apprenticeship , provide an excellent alternative route for young people and career changer to access high education , in our FE college and university , and that such apprenticeship provide a real benefit to our local employer and economy , by develop the workplace skill of the future ? my hon . friend raise an important point . in previous year she have work and live in Newcastle - under - Lyme , so she understand the power and importance that the issue have for a wide north Staffordshire family . I be talk about the excellent Newcastle college , which be further education rather than high education , but it be important because it be from there that our wonderful institution at Staffordshire and Keele get their young people . I be there last Friday , present the student of the month award and meet young people who look forward to stay in Staffordshire for university . let we focus on student for a minute . in 2022 - 23 , 34 , 535 student enrol for a degree at a high education provider in Staffordshire . these be young people to whom we will be look for leadership and inspiration in the year ahead . follow our departure from the European Union , the proportion of EU student in Staffordshire have decrease , while the proportion of overseas student have more than triple , from 2 . 3 % to 7 . 8 % . that speak to the challenge face the sector not just in Staffordshire but right across Great Britain . as my hon . friend have make clear , the high education sector be incredibly important to the skill and education landscape of Staffordshire . sadly , Stafford itself lose its university campus a few year ago , although there be one just across the border . the thing that high education also do be provide opportunity for research , development and sector - lead expertise . however , there be considerable issue in this space , to which my hon . friend have just allude . only this week I have be on the phone to a constituent , a Unison member , who work at the University of Staffordshire . they tell I that they be currently experience their third restructure in three year . do he agree that work in such an insecure environment provide little benefit to staff or student ? I thank my hon . friend and constituency neighbour for such an important point . stability , certainty and structure be what we all want in our life . I expect that be why our party receive such a mandate from the people . but on a serious note , make sure that our high education institution have that stability and focus will benefit all of we . in Staffordshire , student of black african ethnicity have , at 81 % , the high progression rate to high education . progression rate for student eligible for free school meal have increase in Staffordshire over the past 10 year , from 13 . 3 % in 2011 - 12 to 19 . 3 % in 2021 - 22 . in 2021 - 22 , student with special educational need in Staffordshire be also much less likely to progress to high education than those with no identify special educational need . both those figure be low than the national average and , in my view , speak to the need to get a grip of SEND provision in Staffordshire and across England . the system be break and it be leave our young people and their family behind . during the election , I meet many of the young people who study at Keele . I mention Molly , Martha , Olly and Bayley , who be just a few of the young people who have the wisdom both to study at Keele and to help on my campaign . from all my visit and meeting with the student , it be clear just how much they have make a home in north Staffordshire , and that be something we all want to hold on to . I find myself somewhat conflicted , as a graduate of the wonderful Keele University but also represent its rival in the local varsity in the University of Staffordshire . my hon . friend ' s point about young people go to university and make their home in the area be absolutely right . I be a testament to that . but do he agree that one thing we now have to do collectively , as a group of mps represent that part of the world , be ensure that those high - value , good - quality job be then bring to the area , so that the graduate we have can stay in north Staffordshire after they graduate and make a life and a family there ? my hon . friend make an important point . it be something that we have discuss and that we will keep work on together . Keele , which be a subject for another debate , be home to many brilliant local business , and we want to facilitate more such business . I hope those on the Treasury Bench will look favourably on we as they look for place in which to invest in the come month and year . at Keele , the number of high education staff stand at about 2 , 000 . like all our public service , we rely on brilliant public sector worker , and I want to pay tribute to all the wonderful people who educate , inspire and support the leader , the vet and the doctor of tomorrow . I would like to acknowledge my constituent . it be always dangerous to start name people , but I just want to say a couple of thing . Madam Deputy Speaker , your eye be on I , so I shall be brief . my constituent be : Rosi Monkman ; Professor Peter Lawrence ; Ant Sutcliffe , who be also chair of governor at St Luke ' s primary school in Silverdale ; and Dr Robert Jackson , who , after almost 40 year work at Keele , have just retire — a good stint that certainly demonstrate more career stability than most of we will have in this House . our thank also go to all those who work at Keele and at Staffordshire University . through Professor Trevor McMillan , the vice - chancellor at Keele , and Professor Martin Jones , the vice - chancellor at Staffordshire , I want to extend our real and meaningful gratitude to all of they for the work they do . the future of our country be in many way dependent on the future of our university . although I do not expect the Minister to second - guess the Chancellor ahead of the Budget , I do want to say on the Floor of the House that we must give serious consideration and think to our university as final decision be make on the Budget . as we have hear from my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) , the current situation see university launch voluntary redundancy scheme and carry out constant restructuring as they seek to balance the book . as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) note , the issue be also about our young people : the household income level at which a student qualify for the maximum level of support have remain unchanged in cash term since 2008 . that mean a real - term fall of about 39 % , make student from low household income level less likely to be eligible for a full loan and more likely to be push to the brink . when those of we in this place be student , some long ago than other , most people be able to scrape by , but now our young people be be force to rely on food bank or bad — go hungry if the bank of mum and dad be not an option . that should never be an option , in my view ; our country should work properly , fairly and decently . I congratulate Keele University on its 75 year of groundbreake research , think , idea and change . it be an important milestone that I do not want to pass the House by . thank to the staff , the community and most importantly our young people , high education in Staffordshire be in good shape , but it can and should be make much well , and that be where this new Labour Government must come in . they will have my full support . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on secure this debate on the valuable contribution of the high education sector in Staffordshire . this be personal , give that this year Keele University — as we have hear , the first new university of the 20th century — celebrate its 75th anniversary . I would also like to mention the many significant intervention from my hon . friend the Members for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) , for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) , for Burton and Uttoxeter ( Jacob Collier ) , for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) , for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) and for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , and from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I appreciate all those contribution , and I will address many of they in my speech . it be right that we celebrate the success of our high education sector , the value it bring to our economy , the valuable skill it give to people who choose to study at our university and college as well as the people who choose to work in the sector and within the region they serve . our university be autonomous , vibrant and independent . we value that , as do the sector . the Government be commit to ensure a sustainable funding model that support high - value provision , power opportunity and growth and meet the skill need of the country . staffordshire be home to some of the most dynamic and innovative university in the UK , as I be sure my hon . friend agree . each contribute significantly to the academic and social fabric of the community . they have also play a pivotal role in shape the future of countless student . the University of Staffordshire and Keele University foster environment where creativity and critical thinking thrive , prepare student to tackle the challenge of tomorrow . that be due to the dedication of university and their staff in maintain high academic standard and nurture a culture of continuous improvement . those university play pivotal role in drive local economic growth and innovation . through strategic partnership and initiative such as those in Stoke - on - Trent and elsewhere in Staffordshire , these institution collaborate closely with local industry , foster advancement in the medical technology , healthcare and digital sector . those partnership not only offer valuable learning experience for student but have contribute significantly to the prosperity of the area . too many people across the country do not get the opportunity to succeed . we will act to address that . we will support the aspiration of everybody who want to attend high education . high education provider register with the access and participation plan outline how they will support under - represent and disadvantaged student group . Keele University host the Uni Connect hub for North Staffordshire Higher Horizons . on average , 18 % of our young people go to university ; for those who have interact with Higher Horizons , the figure jump to nearly 64 % , yet the funding for the scheme be questionable for the next year . I know that the Minister can not comment on the Budget , but could she take back to her colleague in the Treasury the importance of secure the funding for that scheme , so that the young people she talk about in north Staffordshire get the opportunity that they deserve ? I thank my hon . friend for his significant contribution and for advocate for student and for the university . I will bring the issue to the attention of my noble Friend the Minister for Skills in the other place and I be sure my hon . friend will receive a response . intervention can include tutoring , summer school and student bursary . both Keele University and the University of Staffordshire have revise their access and participation plan , implement new one in September 2024 . they have address risk identify in the Office for Students ' equality of opportunity risk register and through assessment of local risk . we see that reflect in their initiative , such as Steps2Medicine at Keele and the Staffordshire Children ' s University . the Steps2Medicine initiative provide aspire medical student with the support they need to pursue a career in medicine , ensure that student from disadvantaged and deprived background can explore and prepare for medical education . equally , the Staffordshire Children ' s University engage young learner outside the traditional classroom , foster a passion for learning and academic ambition early on . meet the skill need of the next decade be central to deliver the Government ' s mission across all region and nation . that be why we be build a flexible and high - quality system that break down the barrier to opportunity and drive growth . we have establish Skills England and task it with provide authoritative assessment of skill need . we envisage Skills England ' s role in high education closely mirror its role in the wide skill system . Skills England will ensure local , regional , and national system , include high education provider , be meet skill need . it will work with those provider and other partner to ensure it be align with our industrial strategy . all that will be back by a new post - 16 skill and initiation strategy that will set out a coherent vision for the skill system . it will support adult and young people , ensure they have access to valuable work experience , give they access to opportunity through our youth guarantee and support their ambition to access high education . this Government be transform the apprenticeship levy into a new growth and skill levy , which will offer great flexibility to employer and learner , help more people to develop high skill at work and fuel innovation in business across the country . as a key step , the Prime Minister announce short - duration apprenticeship and new foundation apprenticeship for young people in area such as construction , green skill and digital . those measure will support our mission to break down barrier to opportunity and to help to get young people to achieve . that be why I be delighted to see the work of Keele University and the University of Staffordshire in deliver degree apprenticeship . Keele collaborate with a diverse range of employer , include the NHS and Unilever , and have be recognise as outstanding by Ofsted for its climate change skill bootcamp , while the University of Staffordshire , through its state - of - the - art , £ 40 million Catalyst building , support more than 2 , 000 apprenticeship , partner with more than 150 employer , include police force and the NHS . both university be receive significant funding from the Office for student degree apprenticeship development fund , which will help they do even more to improve access . skill England will work closely with employer , training provider , union and other key partner to identify priority skill gap , help to ensure that levy - fund training , include degree apprenticeship , deliver value for money , meet the need of business and drive economic growth . mental health and wellbeing have be mention and be extremely important . the Office for Students be provide £ 15 million in funding for mental health support this year . many high education provider , include the university of Staffordshire and of Keele , have demonstrate their commitment to student mental health by join the university mental health charter programme . but we need to go far and that be why the high education student support champion Edward Peck be work closely with student , parent and mental health expert and the sector through the high education mental health implementation task force to drive meaningful change in mental health practice and improve the life of student . we must do all we can to support our student and to prevent tragedy . both Keele and Staffordshire university maintain robust partnership with local industry . for instance Keele ' s science and innovation park be home to numerous business and promote collaboration between academia and industry . this synergy not only stimulate the local economy but offer student valuable work experience . the value that these collaboration provide to regional economy can not be overstate and we would encourage all university to pursue they . we should not forget the valuable contribution of further education provider such as Burton and South Derbyshire College . these institution play a crucial role in ensure that every person who meet the requirement and wish to pursue high education can do so . finally , I thank all the member who have contribute to this debate and again congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme on secure it . I hope , as I have explain , that it address the issue that have be raise but also celebrate the success of high education in Staffordshire and shine a light on the sector throughout our country . question put and agree to . House adjourn .