I pay tribute to my hon . friend as Sara ' s MP for raise the horror that have take place . of course , I agree that datum sharing between public authority be vital to ensure that such a case do not happen again . but it be not enough , and , alone , it will not prevent the catastrophic and systematic negligence of Surrey county council . this be the same department that have the high number of statutory breach relate to child report to the Local Government and Social Care Ombudsman for over two year . the department cover information up from its own county council and scrutiny committee for more than 14 month , and only disclose it when my five Liberal Democrat Surrey MP colleague and I publicly call it out . Surrey county council objectively contribute to the death of Jennifer Chalkley , Oscar Nash and Sara Sharif by ignore exist legislation . childhood be a precious thing . it can shape we or break we . too many childhood have be steal — by poverty , abuser and the inaction of the previous Government . in Britain today , 3 . 5 million child be grow up in absolute poverty . More be be place in unregistered child ' s home , and it be estimate by the Education Policy Institute that 300 , 000 child be miss from the education system . although Government member seem to have wake up to the evil of child abuse and exploitation , they can not deny that their lack of care and urgency on these issue have make our child more vulnerable . their failure to act have create an environment in which it be estimate that almost half a million child experience some sort of sexual abuse in this country every year , and their failure to implement a single recommendation from the Jay report have make it easy for groomer in every corner of our country to continue to rob our child of their childhood , their future and their dignity . that be the cost of the previous Government ' s do - nothing approach to child abuse , and they should be ashamed . the previous Government ' s failure have also see council struggle to cover the spiral cost of placement . in Croydon , where I be privileged to be an MP , the council have have to cough up almost £ 87 million to cover the cost of child service . with 31 % of child there grow up in the shadow of poverty , Croydon ' s young people have be fail by the inaction of the previous Government . it be time to end the previous Government ' s addiction to fail our child , and support the Bill . the Bill cut the cost of send child to school by introduce free breakfast club and tackle the cost of school uniform . it also prevent vulnerable child from fall through the crack by bring in a register of child who be educate from home , and introduce a unique identifier , so that child be visible across the system . the Bill be the single big piece of child protection legislation in a generation . a vote against it be a vote against child ' s safety , their childhood and their future . it be shameful that , even in opposition , Conservative Members continue to drag their foot on child protection , continue to fail our child , and continue to put the interest of their party before the good interest of our country . unlike the opposition , we will not turn our back on our child , we will not accept failure , and we will finally put the wellbeing of our child first . child grow up in Bournemouth deserve the good start in life — nothing less . whoever you be , and wherever you come from , you should be able to go as far as your talent take you , and those talent should be rigorously , systematically and compassionately nourish for everyone . I would not be here but for the teacher of my childhood . I thank Alan Garner and Christine Moore — it feel really weird to name they in full . I thank Mr Garner and Mrs Moore , who do so much to enable I to get here . they stay late in the classroom so that I could have a safe , warm place to do my homework . they inspire I to do well when circumstance tell I that I could not , so thank you to they . the reality be that for many child , opportunity be too often limited , and their background can have a decisive impact on the life that they can build . I welcome the Bill because it will help every child to achieve and thrive at a school with excellent teaching and high standard . it will focus on disadvantaged child and those with special educational need and disability . in Bournemouth , we have a particularly significant SEND crisis . the Bill will get child ready for the school day by provide free breakfast club in primary school . I want to give a shout - out to Pokesdown community primary school . Chef Russ and Ali Bayliss be two fantastic leader provide nutritious breakfast for young child . the Bill will ease the financial burden on parent by limit the number of brand uniform item . I be particularly pleased about that , because only this week , I be contact by a constituent , Richard Merghani , base in Southbourne , who raise concern about the cost of school uniform . I welcome the Government ' s proposal ; estimate show that it could save parent over £ 50 per child on the back - to - school shop . I want to bring the voice of constituent and local educational expert into this debate . I be think of David Nayler , who have be the headteacher at Stourfield junior school for 11 year ; Lyn Gaudreau , who have be a senior principal adviser to Dorset local authority education authority ; Simon Adorian , a former headteacher ; Patrick Connolly , a former educational professional ; and Caroline Ellis , a nursery manager . they have inform everything that I would have say , if I have long than four minute , and everything that I will contribute as the Bill develop and pass through the Commons . I thank they for their expertise , and for what they contribute . we should really be listen to they , not Conservative Members , who have disgrace themselves in this debate and in recent day . I thank the Government Front Benchers for bring forward the Bill and prioritise child so early in the life of this Labour Government . it feel like unfinished business . the last Labour Government do so much to improve the lot of child and young people ; we be just pick up where they leave off . I look forward to see the Bill progress , and to the future of all our child be so much bright .