Oral Answers to Questions Education the Secretary of State be ask — child with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities what step she be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . what step she be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . what step she be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . what step she be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . what step she be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . we will all know somebody with special educational need or disability and understand how vital it be to get a child with special educational need or disability the right support early on . in recent year , we have see a massive increase in special educational need in our country , which be why we have expand funding to a record level — at £ 10 . 5 billion , up by 60 % in the last five year — and why we be reform the system to deal with the increase in demand , include the big investment in build special educational need school place in our country ' s history . child in Lewisham be wait on average two and a half year to get an autism diagnosis . this be wrong and unacceptable . it be also a national issue , but it be make bad by a shortage of clinical staff . the Government be fail to recognise the seriousness of the shortage of educational psychologist . can the Secretary of State tell I why they have fail and what be be do to recruit more educational psychologist as well as to tackle education , health and care plan wait time ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . around half of new ehcp be issue within the statutory time limit of 20 week , and some local authority be deliver over 90 % , but of course we recognise that the system be under pressure , post both the pandemic and the massive rise in demand for special educational need support . that be why we have increase the budget and put an improvement plan in place . with regard to her question about educational psychologist , we be train 400 more , which be a big increase . I have a constituent — it could be many of the constituent who come to I — who have a child with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder , autism and other severe learn difficulty . she have to wait an awful long time for an EHCP for her child and , in the end , the plan list the very school that say it can not cope with the need of the child . this happen routinely — a school that say it can not cope be still list on the EHCP . what be the Secretary of State do to ensure that council and other people who do the EHCP be not just ignore what the school say and be actually put down the school that can cope with the need ? my constituent ' s child now have only one hour a week of education . that be surely not good enough . we need to do all we can to support child with special educational need ; they be vulnerable and need the support as early as possible . we have programme in place to support local authority , but the big thing that we be do be increase the number of special educational need school place . this will be the large increase in a generation — 60 , 000 more school place — and it be in stark contrast to when Labour be last in power , when the number of place reduce by 4 , 000 . that be something we be very focused on do . many of those have already be deliver , some be work in progress and some will be in the hon . member ' s area . far too many family know what a battle it can be to secure an EHCP assessment for their child , but for force family this battle can become a recur nightmare , as they be force to restart the process all over again if require to move base before it complete . it can not be right that those who sacrifice so much for our country be so let down by the current assessment system . how can we put this right ? of course , we be always look to improve the system and we do have an improvement plan in place . I will take away the hon . Gentleman ' s specific point about people who move around from place to place , but the most important and fundamental thing be that we have increase the budget , which have now go up to £ 10 . 5 billion — a 60 % increase in the last few year . we be also invest in build the right provision , the number of educational psychologist and the workforce . we have a thorough plan in place and we be work to deliver it . parent in Portsmouth be rightly concerned that few than half of the primary schoolchildren in the city be achieve the expect standard in reading , writing and math , while , under the watch of the Lib Dem - run council , waiting list for SEND support continue to rise . do the Secretary of State agree that family in Portsmouth deserve well than a council that be fail child and fail family ? yes , and that be the Conservative Government . the Royal College of Psychiatrists have find that autistic child be 28 time more likely to think about or attempt suicide than other child . not get the support they need can affect autistic child into their adult life . this be a matter of extreme concern , as be the fact that more than 9 , 500 Wirral child be persistently absent from school in 2022 - 23 , which be double the pre - pandemic figure . I note the Minister ' s early comment , but what assessment have the Government make of the percentage of child in Wirral and across England who be miss from school and who have special educational need and disability ? what specific measure will the Government take to address their need ? the hon . Lady be right to identify the crossover between special educational need and absence from school . this can sometimes result in poor outcome , which can lead to mental health issue later . that be why it be important that we get early help to child as quickly as possible . we have a special educational need and alternative provision improvement plan , and in term of workforce , which be the most important thing on top of the place , we be train more special educational need co - ordinator ; we have change the training for new teacher ; we be make sure that we invest in a new national professional qualification to upskill teacher ; and we have more educational psychologist — 400 more in training — and more speech and language therapist . there be a huge workforce element in the plan to improve our special educational need offer . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I welcome what Secretary State have just say about the workforce , and it be vital that we get that into place , but a week on from the publication of the Buckland review and two year on from the Education Committee ' s call to bolster career support for child with SEN , can she update we on what Ministers and the Department be do to work with the Department for Work and Pensions to provide wide opportunity for young people with autism ? we all know that most people with learning disability want to work , and with the right support they can work . the SEND code of practice be clear that all child and young people with special educational need should be prepare for adulthood , include employment . we be invest £ 80 million in a support internship programme , which be very successful , and we will be double this by March 2025 . we be work with the DWP on a number of programme and , follow the Buckland review , the DWP be set up a task group to consider all the recommendation . with a 60 % rise in complex need fund over five year , reach £ 10 . 5 billion in 2024 - 25 , with £ 105 million of funding for special free school in the spring Budget and with the special educational need and disability and alternative provision plan to support everyone with need and disability to age 25 , do my right hon . friend agree that it be this Conservative Government that be work hard for the life chance of every child in our country ? absolutely right . my hon . friend be also right to say that we should take no lesson from the Opposition on support child with SEND : let we not forget that the number of child benefit from be in special school fall , probably because there be no specific high need fund at all for local authority to support people with special educational need . in contrast , we be invest record funding and we be obviously build more place than we ever have in our country ' s history . only the Conservatives have a plan to support child with SEND . in all my year in teaching , before I come to this place , I experience only one episode of violence at the hand of a student when they hurl a chair at I across the classroom . I be six month pregnant then . only one episode in all those many , many year . but increasingly , teach staff be tell I that this be become more and more commonplace . in fact , they expect it . my most recent conversation about this be on Saturday , when a teaching assistant say that they have finally be force to retire because they could not cope with the stress any more . some of this will be due to unmet or unrecognised special educational need , and I thank the Secretary of State for outline all the provision that be be make — indeed , I have a new special school in my constituency — but some be not . will she meet I to discuss some specific local concern ? yes ; I be sorry to hear about the situation of the teacher in my hon . friend ' s constituency . of course , good behaviour be the bedrock of school and school standard . we be invest more in behaviour hub , which be help school that need help with the behaviour of child . we be also invest more in alternative provision school . we be build 77 new one ; 51 be already open and the rest will be open in the come year . in Essex , it have be take far too long for child to get their education health and care plan , so I be pleased to hear that the county council have just recruit 46 additional member of staff . it be also build new special school , include two more in Chelmsford , but what can make a difference be specialist hub within mainstream school , help child from that school and from neighbouring school . give that we have large number of school be rebuild in Essex due to reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — RAAC — do the Secretary of State agree that this could provide an opportunity , and that we should look at all the school that be due to be rebuild and consider put specialist hub into those rebuilding programme ? my right hon . friend mention the considerable investment that be go into special educational need and high need budget . there be also provision for capital to build new free school and school place . as we look to rebuild some of the school affect by RAAC , which have now all be identify — every school have its budget detail — we urge local authority to consider what will well meet the need of young people in their area . there be flexibility on free school place as well : those school look at what to come forward with as regard provision that be need to address local need . I call the shadow Minister . Coram ' s 2024 childcare survey find that just 6 % of local authority be confident that they will have enough childcare place for disabled child . high - quality early year education be essential in ensure that child ' s need be identify at the most important time for their development . the child ' s Minister , the hon . member for Wantage ( David Johnston ) , do not give a clear answer on this last month and his statement last week make no reference to disabled child . be the Secretary of State really confident that every eligible family with a disabled child have be able to access a childcare place as part of the April expansion — yes or no ? I will expand on the yes or no , as the hon . Lady want a clear answer and obviously have not hear the clear answer that she be give before . local authority have a statutory duty to provide place for all child , include those with special educational need , but we be work with organisation such as Dingley ' s promise to review special educational need inclusion , and to see what more we can do to encourage provider to far consider what they can do to provide place . however , we will work with local authority to make sure that we improve this . apprenticeship Achievements what assessment she have make of trend in the number of apprenticeship achievement . the proportion of apprentice who achieve their apprenticeship standard rise to 54 . 3 % in 2022 - 23 , which be up 2 . 9 percentage point on the year before . we be take action to ensure that every apprentice have a high - quality experience . we be review and improve standard where there be poor achievement rate ; we be invest £ 7 . 5 million in the provider workforce development programme ; and Ofsted will be inspect all provider by 2025 . give all young people a good education be key to level up our country , yet the number of apprenticeship start have fall by a third over the last decade and there be 3 % few completion than three year ago . we have improve on last year , but we be not there yet . why have the Government let the number of offer and available apprenticeship slide , and why do the Minister think that young people be not qualify at the rate they be three year ago ? we want all young people to have access to good , high - quality apprenticeship because they offer a valuable experience and an opportunity to upskill at the start of their career . we have see a 4 % increase in apprenticeship start by young people under the age of 19 so far this year , and 57 % of all start have be by those age under 25 . last year , we see a 21 % increase in apprenticeship achievement in the hon . Lady ' s constituency . that be welcome news but , of course , there be always more to do . I be very happy to work with she on the issue . be it not the case that apprenticeship achievement have go up by 22 % over the past year , that over 90 % of apprentice who complete their apprenticeship get good job or good skill , and that start be go up , too ? be it not also the case that we now have more than 690 quality apprenticeship standard in everything from aeronautic to zoology , and that any attempt to dilute the apprenticeship levy would not only destroy the number of start but harm achievement ? it be this side of the House that be build an apprenticeship and skill nation . during his time as a Minister , my right hon . friend help to completely rebuild the apprenticeship system , introduce high - quality standard . apprenticeship be now long , well and have more off - the - job training , with proper independent assessment at the end . they be more value by employer and we have see 5 . 8 million start since 2010 . he be an incredible advocate for further education . follow he in this role , I learn very quickly that I have big shoe to fill . I look forward to work with he to ensure that we continue deliver in this area . I call the shadow Minister . the truth be that not only have apprenticeship start plummet since 2017 , but new datum show that the overall achievement rate have drop since 2020 , with level 2 apprenticeship hit hard . almost half of apprentice do not complete their course , which be simply not good enough . employer be call out for reform , but this Government have their head in the sand . be this not yet more evidence that , far from tackle barrier to opportunity and boost Britain ' s skill , the Government be fail our young people and our business , and that only Labour have a plan to turn this around ? we have make apprenticeship more rigorous . they be now more credible . they be design by employer and have proper robust assessment . the only plan Labour have , without more funding , be to cut the number of apprenticeship start in our country by 60 % . obviously , the hon . Member miss the figure publish last week , which show a 2 . 5 % increase in level 2 attainment rate . we be deliver high - quality standard with more off - the - job training and that should be welcome across the House . SEND Provision what recent assessment her Department have make of the adequacy of SEND provision . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of SEND provision . have undertake a review of the special educational need system , we publish our improvement plan last year . provision be regularly review through school and local area inspection by Ofsted and the Care Quality Commission . we also collect and review datum on education , health and care plan , include on timeliness and volume , and on capacity in special school , SEND unit and resource provision . last week , I meet the chief executive of a chain of independent school , which include a lot of independent special school — approximately 40 % of the child there have special educational need . she be concern about any proposal to put vat on school fee — she feel all this will do be put up school fee and a lot of parent who be just about manage to send their kid to independent special school will take they out , put more pressure on the state education SEND system . do the Minister share my concern that , although people may think that this policy be smart politic , it may be people with special educational need , include those on low income household , who pay the price for this short - sighted policy proposal ? my hon . friend be a great champion of child with SEN and he be absolutely right . labour ' s ideological obsession with private school mean that it will even charge child in an independent special school 20 % vat for their need . that will make it hard for those family to afford the provision they need and drive up demand for place in state special school . it be just another example of the mess Labour would make of our education system . the inequality in the funding formula be drive inequality for child with SEN . in York , we be see not only the lack of placement that be need , but staff be lay off because of an inadequacy of funding . we know that the number of child with SEND be grow exponentially in York , so will the Minister not only review the funding formula to ensure that it be fair , but give local authority the power and provision to provide for the future need of our city ? York be in our safety valve programme to provide support with the financial challenge it have . it have see a 27 % increase in per - head funding in the last three financial year . we review the funding formula every year . the big complaint people have be the historic factor , which be difficult to reduce quickly because there be child receive that provision at the moment . Wyre Forest School , a special school in Kidderminster , have be do a fantastic job for a number of year , but it have be run way past its maximum capacity for some time . there be potential for relief when its next - door neighbour , Baxter College , secure funding from a generous grant from the school rebuilding programme for a mutually beneficial rebuilding to expand capacity on both side . however , with that project be in phase 3 , Wyre Forest School and Baxter College may have to wait until 2032 before they can see any beneficial relief . will the Minister or the Secretary of State meet I and the head of the two school to discuss how we can expedite get this rebuilding programme under way ? I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend . on Saturday , I meet a lady who have move within Shropshire but into North Shropshire , and it take 10 week for her year 9 son with SEN to be place in a school . it be one without any one - to - one support , which be a big downgrade on his previous situation . his parent report to I that all he have receive from the school be detention for not complete his work fast enough . we be desperately short of SEN place in Shropshire . can the Minister reassure I that the Government be look at Shropshire and work to provide proper provision for those child , who be be so badly let down ? obviously , I can not comment on that specific case , but I can tell the hon . Lady that we be in the process of create 60 , 000 more special school place ; there 108 school already open and 92 approve to open . Mental Resilience in Young People : sport and PE if her Department will make an assessment of the potential impact of sport and PE on mental resilience in young people . it be well and widely recognise that PE and sport support child and young people ' s health and general wellbeing . the school sport and activity action plan update , publish in July 2023 , set out how we will support all young people to participate in PE and sport in school . I recently host an event here in Parliament with Nick Dougherty , the golfer , and the Golf Foundation to kick off their Unleash your Drive programme , an amazing initiative provide young people with the life skill they need to survive in the modern world , include mental resilience . the scheme have be roll out to over 500 school since September last year , with fantastic result . will the Minister meet I and the Golf Foundation to discuss this success and how we can encourage more school to teach mental toughness skill through sport , as part of the school sport and activity action plan ? I know about the good work of the Golf Foundation , under the leadership of Brendon Pyle . I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss its work , specifically the Unleash your Drive programme . sport , PE and outdoor education have a huge impact on build resilience among young people , help they to gain a love of learn as well as the outdoors , which can be great for they for their whole life . do the Minister agree that it be a great shame that just the other week the Welsh Senedd vote down by a single vote the Bill propose by his colleague and my friend Sam Rowlands which would have make outdoor education an experience that every young person in Wales could access ? will the Minister go one furth and back my equivalent Outdoor Education Bill , which will receive its second reading on 21 June , so that this place ensure that every young person in primary and secondary school have the ability to access an outdoor education experience for free ? the hon . Gentleman have be entirely consistent for some time in talk about the importance of outdoor education , about which I be happy to agree . I be not sure it be always necessarily a case for law , but it be certainly important for young people to get outdoors , to be in touch with nature and to see the countryside , as well as run around enjoy PE and sporting activity . Israel and Antisemitism : Secondary School Education what step she be take to support education on Israel and antisemitism in secondary school . I have be horrify and appal to see the rise in antisemitism in education since 7 October . it be unacceptable and it can not be tolerate . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have write to all school and college remind they of their duty under Prevent , and we be invest £ 7 million to help tackle antisemitism across education . my right hon . friend be clearly right that the rise of antisemitism in school — or anywhere — be absolutely unacceptable . one of the cause be the failure of school to teach child about the history of Israel and the fact that jewish people have occupy Israel for over 3 , 000 year . indeed , the Balfour declaration set up the creation of the modern state of Israel . as that be not communicate , there be widespread ignorance and people do not believe that jewish people have occupy that land for so long . will my right hon . friend conduct a review of the curriculum to ensure that young people be properly educate about the history of Israel ? I appreciate what my hon . Friend say . history be a very important subject for many reason . learn about Israel and the wide region can be cover in history , for example in the " challenge for Britain , Europe and the wide world since 1901 " theme . in general , we do not specify individual historical event in our national curriculum , with the sole exception of the holocaust , as he will know . I thank the Minister for his positive and helpful response . what discussion have he have with counterpart in the devolved nation , in particular in Northern Ireland , where the two different group — the nationalist and the Unionists ; the Protestants and the Catholics — have be able to develop an understanding on education ? they be able to look at each other without the suspicion that may have be there 20 or 30 year ago . have the Minister have a chance to talk to the devolved nation to ascertain whether introduce compulsory education on the importance of combat antisemitism be possible , take the Northern Ireland example as one that work ? I always value opportunity to speak to colleague and counterpart in the devolved administration . I believe that we will have another opportunity relatively soon to speak to the hon . Gentleman ' s colleague in Northern Ireland , and I have no doubt that that will be one thing that we will wish to talk about . I call the SNP spokesperson . it be right that young people can recognise and denounce antisemitism and it be also right that they know something of the history of the region , include the continue expansion of illegal settlement . but I hope the Minister agree that right - wing rhetoric and Islamophobia also pose a threat to our young people . what step be be take to ensure that both antisemitism and anti - muslim hate be treat with equal severity , especially give some of the Islamophobic remark that have be make by member and former member of his own party ? the hon . Lady be right to call out the wickedness of Islamophobia . there have be Islamophobic incident in school as well , and tell MAMA be an important resource in that regard . we will not tolerate anti - muslim hatred in any form and we will seek to stamp it out whenever and wheresoever it occur . Ms Anum Qaisar be not here to ask the next question , but will the Minister give an answer so that I can bring in the Opposition Front Bencher ? cost of living : Additional Financial Support for Pupils what recent discussion she have have with her counterpart in the devolved administration on the potential merit of provide additional financial support to school pupil in the context of increase in the cost of living . minister normally meet colleague from the devolved government , as we be just discuss a moment ago . the Education Ministers Council be due to be host by the Scottish Government in late 2023 , but , although we have be watch our doormat , no invitation have arrive . the UK Government be provide £ 108 billion over 2022 - 23 to 2024 - 25 to help with the cost of living . I call the shadow Minister . on the cost of living , among concern raise by parent in response to the most recent National Parents Survey by Parentkind , the cost of school uniform , trip and food come up the most . labour have a plan to cut the cost of school uniform by limit the number of brand item , and our free breakfast club in every primary school will put money back in parent ' pocket while improve attendance and attainment . we have do the Government ' s homework , and they be still fail family . will it take a Labour Government to give every child in this country the chance that they deserve ? I appreciate what the hon . Lady say , but I be afraid she need to keep up : we have do the thing that restrict the cost pressure on uniform . we regularly survey how much uniform be cost , and some of those result be encouraging . we also survey regularly the number of school that have a second - hand uniform facility available , and I be pleased to report that that have improve . we be also very clear that , when a school trip be part of the national curriculum — an essential thing to do — there should be no charge . in addition to that , way many school make sure that they be provide inclusivity for all pupil , and of course the pupil premium that we introduce shortly after 2010 be one of the thing that facilitate that . Hanwood Park Free School when she expect the propose Hanwood Park Free School in Kettering constituency to open . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . I thank he for his ongoing support for this new school , include his personal work to make sure that there be provision for boy and girl . we be work with his council and sponsor trust to agree a provisional opening date for Hanwood Park Free School as soon as possible . the new Hanwood Park Free School be a key part of the future educational infrastructure in Kettering and will be locate at the heart of the Hanwood Park development , which , with 5 , 500 house , be one of the large housing development in the whole country . will my right hon . friend please facilitate a meeting in Kettering with the Department ' s regional director for the east midland , I , the local educational authority , the Orbis academy trust and the Hanwood Park developer so that together we can ensure that the school build be co - ordinated as well as possible ? again , I commend my hon . friend for his work . I also appreciate the importance of the provision of local service — none be more important than education — where there be housing development . I would be very pleased to convene such a meeting as he request . read Standards what step her Department have take to improve standard of reading in school . since 2010 , we have completely transform how we teach read in England , expand the evidence - base method of phonic across all of our school . in the 2011 - 12 phonic screen check , only 58 % of our child meet the expect standard of reading . thank to those reform and the hard work of our brilliant teacher , not only be that number now 79 % , but our primary schoolchildren have be rank fourth good reader in the world . we be stick to our plan , deliver high reading standard across our school . I thank my right hon . friend for that very positive response . in 2011 - 12 , only 63 % of child in my borough of Bexley meet the expect standard of reading . now , after the evidence - base reform from this Conservative Government , that number be 81 % — a real achievement . there be still much more to be do , but do she share my disappointment that the Labour party oppose those reform at every opportunity ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . the Conservatives ' plan to reform our reading standard completely and expand phonic across our school have mean that our primary schoolchildren be now the fourth good reader in the world . what be labour ' s response ? it say that phonic would not work , that our literacy drive be " dull " , and that free school be " dangerous " . what be dangerous be the risk of a Labour Government who would collapse educational standard , as Labour have do in Wales . degree - level Apprenticeships what step her Department be take to encourage take - up of degree - level apprenticeship . we have see year - on - year growth in degree - level apprenticeship . start at level 6 and 7 increase by 5 . 8 % this year . there be now more than 170 employer - design degree - level apprenticeship , and we be provide an additional £ 40 million over two year to support provider to expand their offer . last week , I have the pleasure of host member of this House and representative of industry and of the education sector to discuss how we could leverage the resource of the private sector to support further education through a lecturer reservist programme . I particularly thank the Minister and his predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) , as well as Hayley Pells of the Institute of the Motor Industry , for all their hard work in make that meet a reality and for their positive engagement . I would not be do my job properly if I be not cheeky enough to ask whether the Minister would be willing to join we for our next meeting , when we will flesh out the proposal that we discuss . I think we have an excellent meeting last week . we have really positive discussion about the exciting lecturer reservist pilot that will run in the west midland , bring together regional employer , college and provider . I look forward to work closely with my hon . friend as the pilot progress , and not just to meet he again but to visit the pilot when it be up and run . Student Loan Repayment Plan what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the plan 5 student loan repayment plan on level of application for university undergraduate course . our reform make the student loan system more sustainable and fair for graduate and taxpayer . tuition fee have be freeze until 2024 - 25 , and it be this Government who act to cap the interest rate on student loan , because we believe that everybody in our country should have access to world - class high education . in January , the number of application to study nursing fall by 7 . 4 % . the Royal College of Nursing say that that could be a direct threat to patient safety . surely the Government should be do everything they can to boost recruitment in nursing , but instead last September they introduce a tuition fee system that mean that future nursing graduate will pay an extra £ 48 per month . why be the Secretary of State penalise people who choose to work in our vital public service ? the system that we introduce be a progressive one , because lifetime earning now correlate with the amount that somebody contribute . the high earner make the large individual contribution , and the low earner contribute the least . for example , someone who leave university in 2026 earn £ 26 , 000 a year will now pay just £ 7 a month repay that loan . crucially , the new interest rate be reduce from the retail price index plus 3 % to RPI plus 0 % , which make it more affordable too . it be a progressive system that we think be fair for student and taxpayer . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Minister to his place ; it be good to see he in his new role . of course , we miss the former Minister , the right hon . member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) . as my hon . friend the Member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) put it so eloquently , we be in real danger of dissuade and disenfranchise so many young people from get into the sort of career in which they be interested , and particularly into role such as nursing . I reiterate that point , because we have see a 7 . 3 % decline in the number of application for nursing . at a time when we desperately need more in our health service , what be the Minister do ? do he really think this system , which be introduce ahead of his join the education team , be a fair one ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his word welcome I to my post . the point I would make be that the 2023 cycle show number rebalancing and return to a trend of normal growth in application follow the pandemic . he should also look at the big impact nursing apprenticeship and nursing degree apprenticeship be have on the system . I be always happy to meet he to discuss these issue , but we do think it be a fair and more affordable system for both student and taxpayer , and will result in more people be able to access a world - class high education in our country . SEND provision : Bournemouth what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of SEND provision in school in Bournemouth . ofsted outcome be strong for the five special school in Bournemouth . departmental official continue to work with the council and other service to support rapid improvement , include £ 16 . 4 million of high need capital funding between 2022 and 2025 . the funding allocation this year be £ 60 . 9 million , a 27 % increase per head compare with 2021 - 22 . I be grateful to the Minister for that reply . he speak about increase funding , but there be grow anger from headteacher and parent alike in Bournemouth about the mismanagement of the dedicated school grant over the past couple of year by Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole Council . school head have now take the unprecedented step of write open letter of concern to the council . the council be not follow the require guidance and be demand unaffordable sum from school which , if implement , would see the loss of teach assistant . I ask the Department for Education to investigate the council ' s decision making , to ensure that correct guideline be follow in the future and that the right level of funding stay with the school . my right hon . friend have do an excellent job of raise with I repeatedly the frustration of parent and headteacher in his constituency with BCP Council . I and official continue to monitor that closely to ensure that school and child in his area get the provision they deserve . how many child in school in Bournemouth have rely on special educational need and disability provision because they have have an acquire brain injury in the last five year ? if the Minister do not know the answer — he might not know it today — will he be able to write to I ? if his official be not able to provide he with an answer , will he ensure that the Department establish precisely how many child , in all our school across the whole country , have have an acquire brain injury in the last five year ? I do not know the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency be so close to Bournemouth . as he suggest , I do not have the precise answer to that question ; I will write to he . language for Life Programme what step her Department be take to accelerate the roll - out of the Language for Life programme for nursery and pre - school age child . early language skill be vital for child to thrive . that be why we carry out landmark early education reform , invest up to £ 180 million in training , qualification and support and provide a range of evidence - base intervention , from home learning to work with local health service . there be grow evidence of how important it be to provide support for speech and language development in nursery and for preschool - aged child . programme such as Language for Life , which be support by St John ' s Foundation in Bath , underpin the work that school be do . to demonstrate how well they be do it , the percentage of child need additional language support in school that participate reduce from 84 % to 29 % . I be sure the Minister will want to congratulate the school and St John ' s Foundation on the work they be do , but will the Government prioritise speech and language programme such as Language for Life ? what the hon . Lady set out sound very encouraging and I look forward to hear more about the Language for Life programme . we have be very pleased with the finding of the Government - fund Nuffield early Language Intervention , which be different , but have also focus on language development . the NELI have be find to help child to make four month ' additional development in their oral language skill , and disadvantaged child to make seven month ' additional progress . will the Minister give we an update on this month ' s delivery of the first phase of the free childcare entitlement , and may I urge he to ensure that we deliver phase 2 on time in September ? I be delighted to tell my right hon . friend and the House that the first phase of the roll - out go very well indeed . some 200 , 000 child be now benefit from the first stage of the roll - out , which Labour Members doubt could happen — we have show again that we have a plan while they have absolutely none . school Budgets since 2010 what assessment she have make of the impact of real - term reduction to school budget since 2010 on school child . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her question , but I be afraid there be a flawed premise within it . school funding be , at £ 60 . 7 billion , the high it have ever be in real term per pupil . there have be a real - term increase of 5 . 5 % per pupil nationally compare with 2010 - 11 . I thank the Minister for his response , but what he say about the state of school funding be not the full picture , and he know it . school ' cost have increase much fast than funding . in fact , analysis by the National Education Union show that every single school in Nottingham East have less real - term funding last year than 14 year ago — that be £ 1 , 266 less per pupil on average . if the Government really care about the future of child and young people , should they not be fund high - quality education instead of whip up culture war ? we be fund high - quality education , and the quality of that education be see in the result , be they the performance of 15 - year - old in mathematic , English and science , or the result of primary school child , which have improve dramatically since 2010 . on the NEU " analysis " , I be afraid that it be flawed in multiple respect : it do not include a number for the high - need budget , which have grow so much , and ultimately it do not use real number for 2010 . on the subject of school budget , will the Minister join I in welcome the letter that I receive from Malvern College in Worcestershire this week ? not only be that independent school one of the large employer in Worcestershire , but it contribute £ 28 million to the local economy , and if its 300 - plus fee - pay pupil have to be educate in local school , that would come at a huge cost to the public purse . my hon . friend be exactly correct . if the Labour party get into government , there would be a hike in the cost of go to private school , which would push a number of family out of that provision . we do not know how many , Labour do not know how many and nor do anybody else , but we do know that some — possibly very many — would come into the state - fund system , cause great strain and possibly cut that would affect other child . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I start by send our thought and prayer to the whole school and the community in Ammanford in Wales . with exam season nearly upon we , I wish all our student and teacher the very good of luck over the come month . we should be very proud of all the progress that our student and teacher have make , with 90 % of school now rate " good " or " outstanding " — up from 68 % under Labour . in the internationally renowned programme for international student assessment , our secondary school child have rocket up the ranking from 27th and 25th in the world for math and read under Labour to 11th and 13th now . the establishment of the Education Endowment Foundation , which have conduct nearly 20 % of all randomise control trial in education in the world , be add to that success . that fantastic progress be testament to the hard work of our school and the evidence - base reform that we have undertake since 2010 . on a personal level , may I thank the Secretary of State for sponsor my charity event yesterday for disabled child with SYNGAP1 ? of course , I welcome the Government ' s funding of 60 , 000 new school place for child with special educational need , but we need a fair funding formula for those resource , and we need a furth £ 4 . 6 billion just to prevent the crisis in special need from get bad , so what step be the Government take to ensure that funding be allocate accord to need , not postcode ? I thank my right hon . friend , who be do exceptional work to raise awareness of the impact of SYNGAP1 , and have so far raise over £ 29 , 000 to support vital research . as he have point out , we be invest record amount in special educational need and disability funding . we review that funding and look at the formula every year ; it have go up by 60 % over the past five year — to £ 10 . 5 billion — but I be very happy to meet my right hon . friend , and look forward to do so . we say we would have a cup of tea to talk about this important topic , and I will get that date in the diary soon . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I associate myself with the Secretary of State ' s comment , and send my thought and good wish to all those in the school community of Ammanford at this very difficult time . " the extension do not achieve its primary aim or demonstrate value for money " . that be a damn line from the National Audit Office ' s report into the Government ' s childcare expansion . for month , the Secretary of State have tell parent and provider that they be wrong to be concern , yet now we learn that even her own Department consider delivery to be " problematic " — her own failure expose . why have she not listen and get a serious plan in place , or be she simply wait for Labour to publish ours so that she can steal it ? [ laughter . ] I do not think anyone in the country be wait for Labour to publish its plan . this be serious , because of course we be ambitious ; deliver the large expansion of childcare in our country ' s history be not an easy task , but that be the job of Government , and that be what we be do . thank to the expansion , over 200 , 000 more child be get childcare support . we be already deliver , and have put that deliverability into three phase to make sure we continue to deliver . we know what we need — we need place , we need workforce , and we need the child — but Labour have absolutely no plan . first Labour Members criticise our childcare model , then they say they would scrap it , and now they be say that it be not their job to have a plan . it be time for Labour to stop talk down our childcare sector and commit to support our plan , which be clearly work . Nonsense , Mr Speaker . what people right across this country want be a general election , and it can not come soon enough . it be not only on childcare that the Secretary of State be in a total mess ; school leader , teacher and staff have be dismay by her failure to reform Ofsted . she simply refuse to listen to staff , to the Education Committee , or indeed to parent . I be clear that under Labour , the day of one - word judgment will come to an end , so when can we expect the Secretary of State to follow labour ' s lead and commit to end Ofsted ' s headline grade ? we will not follow labour ' s lead , because in 2010 only 68 % of school be rate " good " or " outstanding " ; now , thank to our reform and hard work , that figure be up to 90 % . we have already deliver a number of change to improve the way Ofsted carry out its inspection , but the answer to these challenge be not to water down standard by abolish Ofsted , as Labour have twice propose to do . that accountability be one reason why 90 % of our school be " good " or " outstanding " — up from just 68 % under Labour . in the past year alone , over 200 , 000 more child be attend " good " or " outstanding " school because of the work that we do to improve standard , and Ofsted be an important part of that . be power available to the Secretary of State where school refuse to implement her guidance on social transitioning ? we expect that school will follow the guidance , because it be guidance to help they carry out their exist statutory duty , include safeguard . if they do not take those guideline into account when deliver those duty , they would be at risk of breach . we now come to the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for mention exam season . I be sure she will include the scottish young people sit their exam , whose exam start last week — they be already in the throe of it . deepfake image and nudification app pose massive threat to the mental health of girl in particular , and therefore their educational outcome . I be pleased that the Government have take step to criminalise the creation of such image , but how be the Secretary of State work with Cabinet colleague to put pressure on internet company to take the radical action necessary to remove such image , which can have such an impact on girl ' education ? the hon . member be of course right that the lead be take by a different Department , but we be very conscious of the pressure , include from social medium , in relation to pornography , deepfake and nudification , as she rightly identify , and we be work right across Government to make sure those pressure can be ease . bear out feedback from my two excellent local conservative council , a recent report from the organisation London Councils highlight a 4 . 3 % drop in the number of pupil in school in Hillingdon . at a time of fall number on roll in outer London , will my hon . friend commit to work with our school and local authority to promote the opportunity for more inclusion for SEND pupil in mainstream school ? my hon . friend make two important point . there be a 6 % decline in the number of nought to four - year - old between 2015 and 2021 , and we be provide £ 242 million in this financial year to support school with manage that . he be also right that although some child will always need a special school place to have their need meet , many can have their need meet in a mainstream school . through our SEND and alternative provision improvement plan , we be make sure that school be inclusive and make that happen . the Secretary of State describe special educational need as " lose , lose , lose " when she be describe the process of parent appeal the judgment of education , health and care plan , which , as I say early , often list a school that be inadequate . how do she expect parent to get the right school if they be not to appeal , and who have break the system in the last 14 year ? it be not like that before . I be actually refer to the fact that parent do not feel they be receive the good service from the system , the school do not feel they be give the good service and the Government feel they be spend a lot more , which be why it be very important that we get a grip and fix the system . of course , we know that there have be a massive increase in demand over the last few year — not even 14 year — so we have have to put in place the special educational need and alternative provision improvement plan , which be very thorough . I believe that the result of that plan will be : win , win , win . what step be the Department take to make apprenticeship in build trade more attractive to young people , and especially to woman and girl ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and for all of his work on this area . I know that he have be integral to the " I be a Housebuilder " campaign to encourage more woman into the building sector . our apprenticeship diversity champion network be support gender representation among employer , and it be good news that STEM start continue to increase year on year — up 7 . 5 % in the last year — but there be more to do , and I look forward to work closely with he on the issue . the Cass review have establish that social transitioning be not a neutral act , and that it introduce significant risk of harm . do the Secretary of State agree with I that when a new First Minister emerge in Scotland , they should commit to factual , science - base education in school and implement the Cass review finding in full , so they do not suffer the same fate as their predecessor ? I would encourage our friend and colleague in the Scottish Government , whoever they may be at the time , to pay close attention to Hilary Cass ' s report . I think her work have inject some much - need common sense into the debate , and we be very grateful to she . this government will always put the safety of our child first , and that be why the gender question guidance we have produce in draft be underpin by the important principle of parent always be involve in decision about their child . the Liberal Democrat - run council in Rutland have announce that it will close our specialist — and " outstanding " rate — SEND nursery , the Parks School . this come with the further news that it be also go to close our only leisure centre . the community be rightly devastate , especially parent who want their child to get the good and most expert support . do my hon . friend agree that specialist provision must be protect and be absolutely vital , and that the need for this kind of provision be only go to increase ? I thank my hon . friend , who be absolutely right . we have be hear negative thing about Lib Dem council from both side of the House this afternoon , which , sadly , be not surprising . she be absolutely right to be champion the need of those parent and child , and I hope the council will listen to her campaign and do the right thing . there be no doubt but that this Department have contribute to the chaos surround the opening of King ' s Leadership Academy in my constituency . parent and child find themselves in utter limbo , and this debacle have cause extra pressure on school place across Liverpool . in reply to I , Baroness Barran provide absolutely no explanation of why it take the Department until 1 February to apply for planning permission , despite have own the site since last summer . when will this Department get a grip , end the blame game , and commit to exhaust every avenue in get the school open in September ? I will look into the detail of the case and write to the hon . Lady . research by London Economics and the Association of Colleges highlight that in recent year there have be a significant drop in level 2 apprenticeship start . will my hon . friend the Minister outline the specific work be carry out to reverse this decline in an area that be so vital in promote social mobility and level up ? at level 2 and 3 , apprenticeship make up 65 % of all start so far this year and there be almost 140 apprenticeship at level 2 . we publish datum last week to show that level 2 apprenticeship rise by 2 . 5 % in term of attainment . we will do everything we can to make sure people have access to high - quality apprenticeship , and we have also invest £ 50 million over two year to boost start in growth sector include engineering and manufacturing . I be always happy to meet my hon . friend . five year on from the approval of a new secondary school in my Middlesbrough constituency , not a brick have be lay and the child of Outwood Academy Riverside remain in an old Home Office block , and the next two year ' intake be go to be bus to Redcar to portacabin plonk on a field . child be spend their entire secondary school year in temporary accommodation and it be just not good enough . will the Secretary of State tell ministerial colleague to get a grip and crack on with build the new school these student need and deserve ? we have increase the amount of money go into condition funding . we be also , of course , rebuild 500 school under the school rebuilding programme . I will look into the specific case the hon . gentleman mention and come back to he . my hon . friend will be aware of my campaign to improve literacy across the country by improve child ' s access to library in their school and community . much can also be do by parent , grandparent and carer in the year before child start school . what be the Department do to improve access to book and audiobook in particular , as well as other literary material , for pre - school child ? my hon . friend raise an excellent point . reading be one of the most important thing child can be do at a young age . our little Moments together campaign provide free resource for parent to encourage a positive culture of read at home , and we also fund the National Literacy Trust , which do great work to promote reading . can the Minister give we an update on the school - base work of the Youth Endowment Fund on try to stop young people get involve in crime , and can he tell we how the success of that work will be judge ? as it happen , I be meet the director of the Youth Endowment Fund in the morning . we have a quarterly meeting to review progress and make sure it be on track . in regard to the worrying topic raise early of antisemitism and Islamophobia in school , will minister please bear in mind section 406 and 407 of the Education Act 1996 ? the former ban political indoctrination in school , and the latter say that when political subject be bring to the attention of pupil , they must be present in a fair and balanced way . my right hon . friend issue a timely and important reminder and we be very clear on that with school . we also , of course , part - fund Educate Against Hate , which have material available , and I know that school also seek to go to length in most case to make sure that when tackle controversial current affair , they be do so in an entirely impartial way . while it be welcome that minister be finally invest in childcare , the scheme just be not work , with local provider tell I it fall far short of what they need to meet demand , exacerbate by the especially low rate pay in central Bedfordshire . will Ministers change course to make sure that central Bedfordshire family can finally access the childcare they need ? again , the first stage of this roll - out have go incredibly well , with more than 200 , 000 child now benefit . Labour mp should spend less time criticise our roll - out and more in ask their Front Bench what their plan be , because it be suppose to be like the creation of the NHS . St Francis School and Heathfield School be two excellent special educational need school in Fareham , support a variety of child with condition range from down ' s syndrome to epilepsy , but around the country there be 95 , 000 child at independent special educational need school . do my hon . friend agree that Labour ' s misguided attack on independent school will be harmful and punitive to vulnerable child all around the country ? my right hon . and learn Friend be absolutely right . this be a policy to tickle the belly of the left of the Labour party . the opposition do not think it through , and they be now go to whack family try to get the right support for their child with special educational need with 20 % more in fee . in 2024 - 25 , scottish student live away from home will be entitle to a minimum of £ 8 , 400 in student maintenance , whereas english student live outside London will only be get a minimum of £ 4 , 767 . give the current cost of living crisis , which be undoubtedly a factor in the withdrawal of almost 16 , 000 undergraduate student in England last year , will the Government commit to provide the same encouragement and reinforcement to student in England as student in Scotland enjoy ? we be try to deliver a system that be fair not just to student , but to taxpayer , too . that be why we be take action to support student with the cost of live in England , include freeze tuition fee . we have increase loan by 2 . 8 % , and we have make sure that if someone ' s family income fall by 15 % , they can have their loan reassess . it be also important that we support people from low income household , which be why we have make a furth £ 10 million available , include for hardship funding , in 2023 - 24 . this system be fair not just to student , but to taxpayer more widely . the Sir Robert Pattinson Academy in my constituency be a great school provide an excellent education to child . however , it be struggle with the challenge of aged infrastructure , and an urgent bid for it to rectify the heating and wiring challenge have be refuse . an urgent meeting on Friday with official be unproductive , not least because the datum they be look at be out of date . can I ask the Secretary of State to please ensure that the senior leadership team get an urgent meeting with senior official and that she personally ensure that this bid be look at properly and quickly ? I will indeed do that . my hon . friend have bring up this subject with I and with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State . there be that meeting with Mr Hardy on Friday . I know there be two separate case around the condition improvement fund bid and the urgent capital support bid . we will continue to work with the school , and I will ensure that my hon . friend get that high - level meeting that she ask for . among other cut , the Department for Education have quietly slip out the announcement that it be slash funding for now Teach , which have support more than 1 , 000 people to switch career and retrain as secondary teacher in shortage subject such as science , math and modern language . why on earth be the Government withdraw funding when they be miss their teacher train target by 50 % in some of these subject , and when now Teach have have such a brilliant track record in get people to retrain as teacher ? first , I must say that the statistic the hon . Lady just give on miss recruitment target be incorrect . they be frequently repeat , but not right . we do think that career change be an important part of people come into this noble profession , and we be continue with our career change programme . we be not axe now teach ; we be not re - procure it , so we be not extend it again . to put it in perspective , it be roughly about 200 to 250 people in a typical year , out of about 7 , 000 career change come into teaching . we be reassess the good way to attract more of they , because we want to grow the number of career change come into teaching and make sure that we go about it in the good and most productive way . the Secretary of State be well aware of the issue we have with Academies Enterprise Trust and Maltings Academy in Witham town . she will know of the story of child miss out on school time because of exclusion and bullying . some be even self - harm . what assurance can she give to pupil and their family , who have very little choice as to which school they go to locally , that their concern will be hear and that they will have great educational choice over which school their child go to ? I know we have correspond on this recently , and I know my right hon . friend be take a close personal interest and have be involve directly and personally in multiple case . in my most recent letter — I be not sure if it will have arrive yet — I have say that we will as a Department work with she . I thank the Secretary of State and the shadow Secretary of State for their comment about the incident at Ysgol Dyffryn Aman in my constituency last week . there be obviously now a criminal investigation ongoing and a charge of attempt murder , so it would not be wise to speculate , but as education be devolve in Wales , will the Secretary of State pledge to work with the Welsh Government to ensure safety measure , follow the various investigation have complete their work ? yes , and I can assure the hon . Gentleman that I be always willing and ready to work with anyone from the devolved administration . business — those in manufacturing in particular — speak about the challenge in fill vacancy . the solution can often be in the exist workforce , but old worker can be reluctant to take up apprenticeship . what work be we do to encourage more old worker into the apprenticeship system ? work with employer be central to success on that point . that be why we be deliver the local skill improvement plan to ensure that we be match the need of business and employer with the workforce they need . we be work with over 5 , 000 employer , with over 700 different occupation , include on skill bootcamp , which bring different demographic to the workforce , to ensure that we have intensive training where industry have those skill need . engagement with business be at the forefront of our mind on that point . this weekend , the Times report that some conservative mp want to see graduate visa ban . will the Minister ask the Home Secretary to quash that damage rumour , give that international student provide the UK with a £ 42 billion boost ? we be home to some of the world ' s top university , which benefit from strong international tie . we think it be right to try to prevent any potential abuse and to protect the integrity of our high education system , but it be true that international student make significant economic and cultural contribution to our education . we believe it be possible to balance a fair and robust migration policy with maintain our place as a top destination for student from around the world . I thank the Education Secretary for all the support that her Department be give to Bracknell Forest , particularly the £ 16 million safety valve programme and other SEN initiative . give the high number of good and outstanding school in Bracknell and the focus on apprenticeship and t - level at Bracknell and Wokingham College , might I tempt she please to visit ? a quick yes . it be tempting . we be proud of the safety valve programme , which be be use across 38 local authority , and I would love to see it in action as I know it be provide a lifeline to many council . final question , Sir Edward Leigh . for 14 long , weary year I have be argue for an end of the faith cap , which be prevent the opening of new Catholic school and have no proper effect . do the Secretary of State think that I should keep campaign and be patient for a bit long ? I have also have an opportunity to speak to my right hon . friend on occasion about this . the Catholic Church , the Church of England and other denomination play a central part in our education , typically have high - quality school and typically be popular with parent . we be keen to extend our academy and free school programme , which have underpin the huge rise in quality and child ' s result that we have see since 2010 . no doubt , before too long , we may wish to put the two thing close together . UK Armed Forces in Middle East ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence if he will make a statement on the role of the UK armed force in the middle east . the Prime Minister and Government Ministers have regularly provide update in Parliament on the recent role of the armed force in the middle east through write and oral statement , in addition to respond to write question . as have be say previously , publicise operational activity to Parliament in advance could undermine the effectiveness of operation and risk the life of armed force personnel involve . the UK have provide assistance to our ally and partner in the region . the Ministry of Defence have provide support to facilitate the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ' s response to the deteriorate humanitarian situation in Gaza , and we continue to work with the fcdo . our armed force personnel have play a critical role in work to establish more route for vital humanitarian aid to reach the people of Gaza and in the delivery of support , in co - ordination with the US and our international ally and partner . to date , the UK have conduct nine airdrop as part of the Jordanian - lead mission , drop more than 85 tonne of vital humanitarian aid of prepackaged halal meal , water , flour , baby milk formula and rice to Gaza . UK military planner have be embed with the US operational team to jointly develop the safe and most effective maritime humanitarian aid route . RFA Cardigan Bay be sail from Cyprus to support the US pier initiative to enable the delivery of significantly more lifesaving aid into Gaza . the UK Hydrographic Office have also share analysis of the Gazan shore with US planner to support the initiative . the RAF also send additional aircraft to the region to protect our ally and support de - escalation , culminate in the UK armed force shoot down a number of iranian attack drone . the House will understand that for operational security reason , I can not comment on the specific of that activity . as state by the Prime Minister on 15 April , " our aim be to support stability and security because that be right for the region , and because although the middle east be thousand of mile away , it have a direct effect on our security and prosperity at home , so we be work urgently with our ally to de - escalate the situation and prevent further bloodshed . " — [ Official Report , 15 April 2024 ; Vol . 748 , c . 23 . ] we be direct all our diplomatic effort to that end . I will not comment on media leak and speculation , but I can assure the House that the Government be take all measure to support our ally and partner in the region . we be press for a sustainable ceasefire that will enable the release of hostage and provide the people of Gaza with the essential assistance and humanitarian aid that they need . I welcome the Minister back to the Department in his new post . of course , the Defence Secretary should be here ; he have make only one oral statement on the middle east in more than two month . as the Minister say , our UK armed force be reinforce regional stability , protect international shipping , defend partner country and deliver desperately need aid to Gaza . we be proud of their professionalism , and across the House we pay tribute to their work , but the agony of the Palestinians in Gaza be extreme . child be starve , family be die , and famine and disease be take hold . humanitarian help must flood into palestinian hand , so we welcome the ninth RAF airdrop last week , but why have there be only one sea shipment of UK aid in more than six month , and none this year ? what be the Government do to open up Ashdod port ? we welcome the new role for RFA Cardigan Bay in help to build the temporary pier . the Royal Fleet Auxiliary be demonstrate that it provide vital naval support . be it protect from new civil service cut ? have Ministers resolve the issue of the potential strike action ? what be the Defence Secretary do to raise rock - bottom morale in the RFA ? Weekend report suggest that UK troop could be deploy to deliver aid on the ground in Gaza . will the Minister confirm those plan ? how will the Defence Secretary report to the House , and ensure that Parliament have a say , on any such deployment ? the Defence Secretary seem to be do the bare minimum on the diplomatic front . why have he make only one visit to Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories since 7 October ? we need an immediate ceasefire now , hostage release now , and unimpeded aid now . we need a political route to secure a long - term two - state settlement . where the Government pursue these aim , they will have labour ' s full support . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his question and his warm welcome . he ask a series of pertinent question , which I will seek to cover off . he ask about our effort on maritime delivery . clearly , the deployment of RFA Cardigan Bay be lean into the prospect of a far great flow of maritime aid through the Cyprus humanitarian corridor , which will seek to substantially uplift that deliver so far . that will have an important impact on the extent to which Ashdod can come into play . we make the point regularly to our israeli colleague that open Ashdod would be a critical enabler of a dramatically increase flow of aid , which be seriously need . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the Royal Fleet Auxiliary Cardigan Bay . colleague will have notice in last week ' s statement to the House that there have be a very substantial uplift in defence funding . an additional £ 75 billion over the next six year mean that morale across all three service and the Royal Fleet Auxiliary will be resilient , and high than before . that uplift be a vote of confidence in our capability , of which we should all be proud — I certainly be . I will not comment on speculation that there might be a ground role for UK force . it would not be right for I to comment on speculation . we be very clear about the current remit . RFA Cardigan Bay be there to provide living support for the US troop involve in the construction and operational delivery of the jlots — joint logistic over the shore — platform . the Defence Secretary will , as be his will not , continue to report frequently to this House , and to make oral and write statement . I be very pleased to hear that the right hon . Gentleman would like to see the Defence Secretary at the Dispatch Box more often . I will relay that desire to he when I see he . he be a busy man , but he know that his first duty be to be in this House . his visit to the Occupied Palestinian Territories be important ; his be a global role . to categorise his one visit as disproportionate , or a lack of interest , be uncharitable to say the least . in all earnestness , we share the right hon . Gentleman ' s view that a far great flow of aid and humanitarian support be contingent on a sustainable ceasefire . this House will know that we call on Hamas to lay down their arm and release the hostage ; that be the sure route to find that sustainable ceasefire . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . I commend the Government ' s determination to get aid into Gaza , and I commend the work of the RAF , RFA Cardigan Bay , UK planner and the Hydrographic Office . as the Minister be aware , I would not expect he to comment on speculation , but some of the well lay and well intentione plan can run into problem . can he assure the House that we would only ever contemplate put UK boot on the pier if appropriate force protection be in place ? I be grateful to the Chair of the Select Committee , who speak with characteristic expertise . he be absolutely right that it would be improper for I , as a Government Minister , to comment on that speculation . I call the SNP spokesperson . can the Minister confirm that the US maritime humanitarian aid corridor be require only because the israeli Government will not allow the port of Ashdod to be use to receive the appropriate amount of aid for northern Gaza ? be the UK Government content with that stranglehold over the people of Gaza ? the working assumption be that a nation will be drive truck of aid across this american facility , but will that nation be the UK ? if it be , what be the risk assessment if UK troop potentially step up for an operation that go where american troop fear to tread ? get aid into Gaza to alleviate the unspeakable torment of the Palestinians must be a good thing , and the professionalism and capability of UK troop be beyond question , but be Ministers seriously suggest that the good that Euro - atlantic ally can muster be british troop ? have Ministers forget how british force operate in Palestine in the arab rebellion of 1936 ? the Palestinians have not . any risk calculation must command more robust analysis , rigour and humanitarian ambition , not simply UK Ministers ' ambition for positive headline . well , Mr Speaker , that be a mixed bag of question . I will answer in the spirit of sincere debate . we should say that we be lean into the cypriot and jordanian humanitarian effort . that be very important , because those effort need to be ground in the region . solution to the problem of the region lie in the region , but clearly we have a key enable role , along with the US . the hon . Gentleman invite I to comment on speculation in the medium , which I will not do . nor will I dwell on his reference to the history lesson from 1936 . we should be upbeat and proud of the way we have significantly lean into the delivery of humanitarian aid . that be a key component of stabilisation , and of any prospect of peace in Gaza . I call the Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee . one of the main strategic aim of Iran , Russia ' s ally , in support what Hamas do in October last year be to suck western power into the middle eastern theatre , thereby divert they from Russia ' s existential conflict with Ukraine . may I urge the Minister not to comment on the suggestion that we might have british boot on the ground in the Gaza strip , but to take the message back to the Secretary of State that this would be a completely insane idea ? it would be far well to have moderate neighbour arab state deal with any distribution of aid that we have facilitate as a result of the viable RAF and sea power that we have rightly exercise . my right hon . friend be right : the answer to the humanitarian and political challenge in the region lie within the region . I entirely agree with his analysis . he make a relevant and good point about the requirement for we to maintain focus on our effort to support our ukrainian friend in defend their sovereignty . that be why last week we announce an additional uplift in our annual support for Ukraine to the tune of £ 500 million , bring this year ' s support to £ 3 billion — a record amount . from our work on the Defence Committee , I know that the armed force be run hot . obviously , the event in the middle east over the last six month or so have put much great strain and pressure on our armed force . what be the Minister do to ensure that our armed force get proper rest and recuperation , and that we improve the resilience of our asset ? we be increase funding for defence to record level , which increase the armed force ' capacity to train , rest , and attend to all the area of their life other than operation . that be a huge vote of confidence in the esprit de corps of our armed force . we be take defence investment to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2030 . it be a tremendous boost , which will filter down and improve retention and effectiveness right across the board . I be in Israel early this year and meet senior Israel Defence Forces personnel , who assure I that they be do everything in their power , and be work with ally , to increase aid to Gaza . it be the right thing to do , and we must continue those effort , but it be patent that Hamas be obstruct the distribution of aid within Gaza — another reason why we need to support Israel in defeat Hamas . will the Minister assure the House that if and when Israel go into Rafah , where several Hamas battalion remain , and where senior Hamas operative and the hostage be base , UK support will remain resolute and steadfast , as we support Israel in finish the job and eliminate Hamas ? we be clear - eyed in our assessment of Hamas : we regard they as a terrorist organisation that have prosecute an atrocity . we call on they to lay down their arm and to release the hostage . that be the precondition for any kind of meaningful and sustainable ceasefire . the Government have so far resist have a proper debate and a vote on british military engagement in the middle east this year . the engagement of the British Army in Bosnia in the 1990 start out as be for the purpose of humanitarian aid , but be subject to mission creep as british soldier be attack by the war party . in 2006 , John Reid say : " we would be perfectly happy to leave in three year ' time without fire one shot " . will the Minister assure we that if the Government propose use british troop on the ground in Gaza , they would first grant this House a debate and a vote on the matter ? the lesson of Bosnia be interesting , and be not lose on Government Members . the hon . Gentleman should have no doubt that Ministers and the Government will remain fully accountable to this House . may I declare an interest ? member of my close family have be , and be , involve in military operation in the middle east . bear in mind my experience in Northern Ireland — seven tour — I be slightly worried that if our armed force open fire in the middle east , which they have do , a foreign country will , at some future date , put they before an international court and charge they . I hope the Minister will declare that such a thing will never happen . I be grateful to the right hon . and gallant Gentleman for his question ; he speak from a position of knowledge . he should be assure , as should the House , that our force in the region operate with the full force of the law behind they on the basis of collective self - defence . israeli medium be report that the International Criminal Court could be about to issue an arrest warrant for Benjamin Netanyahu and other top israeli official for the litany of war crime commit by Israel in Gaza . it be far report that the United States Government be work to prevent justice from be do and to stop the ICC issue arrest warrant . do the Minister agree , after more than 34 , 000 Palestinians — woman , man and child — have be slaughter in Gaza and israeli bombing have obliterate and decimate entire palestinian neighbourhood , that Benjamin Netanyahu should be hold to account for his horrific crime ? rise — order . we have to be careful : the question be quite frame . I be sure the Minister might want to pick part of that to answer . yes ; I regard that as out of scope . no , I think I do that — anyway , I call Robert Jenrick . Hamas be a terrorist organisation that hate the United Kingdom and everything that we stand for . it would therefore be deeply unwise for the UK to commit british serviceman and woman , whether on the ground or on the pier in Gaza . it be for precisely that reason that the White House have categorically rule this out . will the Minister take the opportunity to do the same , so that we can reassure our constituent that we do not make an inadvertent mistake , and that british troop will continue do what they should be do , which be facilitate the complete eradication of Hamas ? I agree entirely with my right hon . friend ' s analysis and his comment about Hamas . other than that , of course I will not comment on speculation in the medium . what discussion have the Minister have regard UN security force accompany truck to enable they to move into Gaza in the light of the impediment they be face , and also rebuild infrastructure so that truck can travel across the country to deliver crucial medical and other humanitarian aid ? a great deal of energy from Ministers and official be go into the ongoing discussion about how to operationalise the great flow rate of humanitarian aid go into Gaza , so the hon . Lady ask a relevant question . the Minister be rightly reluctant to discuss the role , disposition and location of british force in the middle east , but could he again confirm to the House that the requisite force protection will be factor into all operational level planning , and also that it be not beyond the realm of possibility that the UN could be coerce into take a more active role in Gaza ? my hon . Friend also ask a relevant question , and I can give he that assurance in relation to the deployment of RFA Cardigan Bay . some 34 , 000 people be already dead in Gaza , many be die now in Rafah from wholly preventable condition such as measle because of a lack of sanitation and medical care , and the israeli bombardment be still go on . that be the big problem for get aid in . what pressure be the Minister put on the israeli Government to cease the bombardment of Gaza , to ensure the withdrawal of israeli force from Gaza , and to ensure that we will not be deploy british troop anywhere on the on the ground in Gaza , the west bank or any other part of the region and that instead we will search for peace and for justice for the people of Palestine ? the right hon . Gentleman ask about the protection of civilian . we continue to make the point to our israeli friend that they must seek to protect civilian life , but of course the root cause of this be the atrocity commit by Hamas . for peace to be secure , all that would have to happen be for Hamas to lay down their arm and release the hostage . Iran continue to present one of the most pressing and dangerous threat to the middle east and to global stability . with the increase emphasis on the need for an integrated defence strategy comprise different nation of the region , do my hon . friend agree that there be an ongoing , vital role for british force to play , as they do so ably on the night of 13 and 14 April ? I wholeheartedly agree , and we should pay tribute to those who courageously play an active role in that defence of our collective security . undoubtedly , british armed force have a sustained and hugely important role to play in bring peace and stability right across the region . the UN report that 80 % of all those in the world face imminent famine be locate in Gaza . with over 200 humanitarian worker kill by israeli force since October , a ceasefire be essential for the effective delivery of aid and for prevent famine in both the short term and the long term . how can the Government justify their continue refusal to back call for an immediate and permanent ceasefire ? the hon . Lady be correct that a ceasefire be need , as it be the way to assure the flow of aid that Gazans need . the precondition of that ceasefire be for Hamas to lay down their arm and to release the hostage . I be in Israel on the night of the Iran attack , and I see the jet in the sky , David ' s Sling and Iron Dome deal with the ballistic missile as they come in . I feel very proud to know that our force be involve , and the Israelis be very grateful for our activity . one group of people in Gaza who be not be provide with aid or proper medical check be , of course , the hostage . last Monday , I speak to the parent of 23 - year - old Hersh Goldberg - Polin , who be last see on 7 October be bundle into the back of a truck with his arm and hand missing , have have a grenade throw into his shelter . a video be release on Wednesday , and it be the first sight of he . he look in a very distressed state . can the Minister assure I that we will continue to do everything we can , militarily and through intelligence , to help Israel to locate these hostage ? I can , of course , give my hon . friend that assurance . it be a highly sensitive subject , and if he would care to raise the case with I individually , we will do what we can to follow up . two month ago , the House pass Labour ' s motion call for an immediate ceasefire . we believe that Hamas must immediately release their hostage , but Israel must also look at release its prisoner . there have to be an immediate and unimpeded supply of aid into Gaza , but I be really concerned about UK force get involve . we should rely absolutely on aid be deliver by the charity and voluntary organisation on the ground . what be the Defence Secretary do with our ally and regional partner to secure an immediate ceasefire ? we continue to make the point that Hamas must lay down their arm and release the hostage . that be the precondition for peace . the key problem , as my hon . friend will know , be that Hamas and Islamic Jihad be appropriate aid mean for the Palestinians . what step be our armed force take to ensure that aid get to those who really need it , not the terrorist network ? what step be they take against Hamas ' s terrorist tunnel under the egyptian border ? british armed force could play a significant role in work with Israel to dismantle the tunnel network . my right hon . Friend ask a very good question , and a huge amount of effort be go into this . we be energetically lean into the prospect of a great degree of aid flow through the cypriot and jordanian humanitarian corridor , and the JLOTS temporary pier capability could be an absolute game changer . the Government continue to provide huge sum of taxpayer ' money for arm and weapon for Ukraine , but minimal funding for humanitarian aid for Gaza . do the Minister believe that the UK public share the Government ' s spend priority ? I believe they do , yes . despite some positive noise come out of the middle east about a truce , for my constituent in Bolton it be deeply worry to see report of an increasingly likely ground offensive in the southern city of Rafah . the Minister speak about not want to see any more bloodshed , but if there be a ground offensive , more blood will be shed . what be our government , the Ministry of Defence in particular , do to avoid bloodshed happen in Rafah and to prepare for different scenario ? we always make the point to our israeli colleague that the protection of civilian life be imperative . we acknowledge that Israel have an absolute right to self - defence , and we hope that Hamas will recognise that the path to peace lie in lay down their arm and release the hostage . my understanding be that the british Government do not support the ground offensive by the israeli military in Rafah . will they therefore use all the leverage at their disposal , include withdraw arm export licence , if the israeli Government act against british policy ? we have one of the world ' s tough arm export regime , of which we should be very proud . on the middle east , it be a decade since this House vote to support the UK ' s join the global coalition against Daesh . although territory have be liberate , do not the recent strike by the RAF against a rocket launcher be use to target coalition force underline the need for a sustained , long - term commitment to defeat and destroy terrorism ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about that , and we should be grateful for the role play by the RAF . it be a reminder that the price of peace be eternal vigilance . I thank the Minister for his response . I very much welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement last week about the extra defence spending . it be important that we support innocent victim who can not protect themselves . the UK ' s role in the middle east be much appreciated , acclaimed and respected . do the Minister agree that in response to recent increase iranian threat , for instance with the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps be responsible for Hamas terrorist attack across Gaza and the broad middle east , we must do whatever we can within our budget to encourage de - escalation and to try to prevent further attack by Iran and its supporter ? I agree with the hon . gentleman ; he rightly say that put in 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2030 will provide that boost and ensure that we have the operational capability to achieve that global response that we need to keep our country safe . we talk about 500 truck a day because that be the pre - war number , but that be when Gaza have a relatively function economy and an agricultural sector to back it up . therefore , more than 400 truck will be need , by land and sea , and so I thank the armed force for their help in deliver aid and in help to build the pier . what pressure be we put on Israel to get more aid quickly deliver by land , which be the good and quick way of do it , and on the use of UNRWA in northern Gaza , as it have the most effective system to get aid to the right place quickly ? my hon . friend be correct : we do need to increase that flow . what would be a game changer be open the port of Ashdod , and we continue to make that point forcefully to our colleague . do my hon . friend agree that his Majesty ' s armed force could be provide any humanitarian support , now or in the future , only with Israel ' s total co - operation and that it should be recognise for that ? have he note also that Israel ' s Iron Dome and Arrow 3 defensive system , among other thing , would , in effect , be part of the protection of his Majesty ' s and other ally force ? do he agree that that make even more nonsense of the anti - Israel interest ' call for an arm embargo against Israel , because if ally force , include his Majesty ' s force , be to be act in the region , they would be look for support from Israel itself ? my right hon . and learn Friend make a very good point . check on Goods Entering UK ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs if he will make a statement on the introduction of check on good enter the UK under the border target operating model due to be live on 30 April 2024 . under the border target operating model , tomorrow the Government be introduce documentary and risk - base identity and physical check on medium - risk animal product , plant , plant product and high - risk food and feed of non - animal origin import from the EU . check on high - risk product , currently conduct at destination , be move from destination to border control post and control point . recent medium report suggest that the introduction of these control will be delay be incorrect . documentary check will happen at all risk level . physical check will initially focus on the high - risk good , with some also take place on medium - risk commodity . we will build up to full check rate to both protect biosecurity and minimise disruption . we will continually review our enforcement approach as we track compliance and trade flow , and will adjust our approach accordingly . this pragmatic approach will support trader as they adjust to the new regime . the Government have work closely with industry , inspection agency and the Animal and Plant Health Agency , know as APHA , to ensure we be ready for the introduction of these control . we be confident that border control post infrastructure have sufficient capacity and capability to handle the volume of check expect under the border target operating model . we be confident that our system be robust , dynamic and effective , and that the inspection authority be appropriately staff and train . I close by emphasise that the introduction of these biosecurity control be not optional . now that we have move away from the EU ' s rigid biosecurity surveillance and reporting system , we be responsible for protect our own biosecurity against threat such as african swine fever . let we start by say this be not about Brexit because , whether member support or oppose Brexit , nothing propose here be inevitable or unavoidable . have leave the EU , we need border control , but what be propose will not be control — it will be chaos . the EU bring in check in 2021 , but this Government have delay do that five time . in that time , they could have negotiate a sanitary and phytosanitary deal to avoid the mess that be about to happen . instead , from Wednesday , for the first time , 2 . 7 million lorry will need to be stop at Dover so their content can be check , and another 4 million will require a health certificate for the animal product they carry . on top of that , 5 million of they will have to pay a common user charge for the privilege of import good deem medium or high risk , whether or not they be inspect . the cost to business , which we know will be pass on to consumer , be horrendous and chaotic , and the charge be confirm only on 18 April . the Government have admit that the check will cause inflation , but they claim it be only £ 300 million — 0 . 2 % — over three year . independent analysis show it will be 10 time that amount , or £ 8 a month on the average food shop . if the Minister want to dispute that figure , will he finally publish the modelling that the Government have refuse to disclose so we can see how they have come to their number ? we know their number be wrong because , while they have confirm that the common user charge — the direct cost to each lorry — will be about £ 145 a time , they admit they have not calculate how much the new veterinary check will cost , with some run to hundred of pound . they can not make those calculation because they tell european country to set their own standard and charge , so how can minister tell we we can be confident when we do not know what will be pass to be healthy in Hungary , Germany or here ? if food standard matter to people , they will be disappoint because the Minister have just admit that only " some " check will happen on medium - risk good from Wednesday . will he put a number on how many check will happen from Wednesday ? medium - risk good be anything of animal origin that be not alive , but could also be beetroot or sweetcorn . what a mess . small business be go to be clobber for a fee for a service they will not even get . on top of that , Sevington have not even be declare a border control post to carry out any of the check . where will good come into Dover be check on Wednesday , especially if they be high risk ? what about the other port around the UK that can set their own charge ? and who be go to enforce any of this ? the Government tell industry to be prepare , but there will not be any check after 7 pm , so people can say goodbye to those just - in - time supply chain for perishable good . People come back from holiday have no idea what their " personal use " be , so they could be stop for carry gorgonzola . with 36 hour to go , we need some straight answer . our constituent can not eat the paperwork or afford the price rise these check will create . corner shop , deli and restaurant will go bust and our port will be bung up . I say to the Minister that there be still time to cancel the Brexit border tax , so will he please listen to concern from across the House and do so ? the hon . Lady either choose not to understand what be happen , or deliberately try to inflame a situation that will be of great benefit to the UK move forward . she deliberately pick the high figure available . for low - risk good , there be a £ 10 charge for product , cap at a maximum of five product , so the maximum amount that can be charge on a lorry load of low - risk good would be £ 50 . the hon . Lady be right that we have calculate that over three year that will lead to an additional 0 . 2 % on food inflation . in comparison , an outbreak of foot and mouth disease cost this country £ 12 billion , not take into account the impact on international trade and our reputation as a country , so these check be a small price to pay for ensure we be safe and protect for phytosanitary and sanitary good come into the UK . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . obviously , as part of the European Union and the single market , we could not impose check to ensure that disease such as african swine fever do not come into the country . the Minister have say that there will be a graduated approach to the introduction of the check . what be the timescale for ramp they up to a level that he believe will be satisfactory ? if consignment be divert to Sevington , what measure will be in place to ensure that those truck or van actually arrive at Sevington and people do not dump what be on board in a layby or transfer it to another vehicle ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question and for the scrutiny that his Select Committee have undertake . it be important to distinguish between those good that come into the country through approve route , via approve importer on traditional line , and those people who may seek to import good into the UK illegally or without that documentation . there will still be border control check by Border Force at the port of Dover to catch those who be try to do something illegal , but those who be operate within the system will move to Sevington . to stop halfway and avoid those check would be a criminal act and those good would not be able to be sell within the UK marketplace . I call the shadow Minister . we recognise the need to ensure the UK ' s biosecurity , but I echo the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) . what a mess . it be 29 April and the new check be be introduce tomorrow , but the business involve be unclear about how the system be suppose to operate — and that be after the five delay that we have hear about and huge sum waste on border control point . perhaps the Minister can tell we how much have be waste on Portsmouth , for instance . we want these check to work . I have be to the London and the Dover port health authority and be extremely impressed by the work that they do , but it be baffle that , in the battle against asian swine flu , at Dover , the Minister be take away vital funding , as the Government move the check 22 mile up the road to Sevington . can he tell the House how food vehicle will be control on that journey , as Dover Port Health Authority tell I clearly that they win ' t ? the Government have admit that the cost will be an extra £ 330 million annually . other say it will be more . what definitive figure can the Minister provide for the inflationary impact that this Government ' s border measure will create for food supply in the UK ? what assessment have be make of the saving and efficiency that would be make if we be to achieve a well veterinary agreement with the EU ? in conclusion , the british chamber of commerce say that DEFRA have fail to listen to industry over these change . other say the same . many business be exasperate by the endless delay and the repeat and continual lack of clarity and certainty in the implementation of the new system . why have the Government leave business and even border chief in a position where they simply can not plan properly and be leave in the dark , as one put it , at one minute to midnight in term of be tell about the essential feature of the new system ? what be the Minister go to do to sort out the mess ? I thank the shadow Minister for his question and his interest in this topic . what be clear be that there be a distinction between those good that be come into the country illegally , which will still be inspect at the port of Dover by Border Force , and those that be come in via legitimate route , by legitimate trade link , from area that have be inspect by their own country ' s equivalent of the Food Standards Agency to make sure that those port good be safe to come into the UK with the correct documentation . those good will go to Sevington . but if someone try to do something illegal , they will be pick up by Border Force at the port of Dover , via inspection , include intelligence - lead inspection . [ interruption . ] the shadow Minister say that there be no money , but we be in conversation with Port of Dover to resolve that . the other challenge that the shadow Minister put to we be that we have delay this a number of time . that have happen because we have be in conversation with those people and haulier who have have comment on how to improve the system . we have listen to those concern and now have the model that will operate , give the advice and liaison we have have with those company . as a veterinary surgeon , I be passionate about biosecurity . I be reassure that our Conservative Government be take this matter very seriously indeed . I thank the Animal and Plant Health Agency and everyone at our border who do so much in this regard . prior to leave the EU , we do not have the opportunity systematically to check animal and plant product come into the UK . do my right hon . friend agree that we now have the opportunity to strengthen our biosecurity and that the introduction of the border target operator model will protect animal , plant and , ultimately , human health in the UK move forward ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his work in this area and his expertise in it . move forward , we will be in a much strong place in term of our phytosanitary and sanitary protection . that be the right outcome . we will continue to ensure that we be safe in the UK and that we protect our border proportionately . I call the SNP spokesperson . the continual uncertainty be cause by these border check be not only disgraceful but highly damaging for industry and consumer . there have be five delay by the UK Government , accompany by a complete failure to communicate those delay effectively . do the Minister accept that the significant disruption be face be a symptom of not only the Government ' s disastrous delivery of the check but Brexit itself ? any suggestion to the contrary be frankly for the bird . secondly , will he apologise from the Dispatch Box to the business that have be diligently prepare for the change , only to be leave utterly in the dark by his government ? the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation be simply untrue . we have be work closely with the sector , with haulier , and with company that want to import food into the UK . we be approach this in a pragmatic , proportionate way . we have take our time to get it right . I do not apologise for take time to ensure that the system that we will introduce tomorrow be proportionate and pragmatic . we have listen to the company that will use the system to ensure that we get it right and it work . we be ramp this up at a pace that be slow but steady to ensure that we get to the right place in the right time , to keep the country safe from any disease . my right hon . friend make the point that there have be delay , and he make no apology for they . give those delay , will he accept my assurance , since Sevington be in my constituency , that the team work there , whom I have speak to about this in great detail , be absolutely prepared and well train to do the check as well as they could possibly be do ? People can be assure of the safety of import check at Sevington , because the team there be absolutely across everything that need to be do . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his support , and the reassurance that he give the House . we will continue to listen , and to work with those who want to import good into the UK , to ensure that we remove as many barrier to the operation of free trade as possible , but at the same time keep ourselves safe . our trade intensity have fall to the low level in the G7 , and ITV ' s Joel Hills have state that the estimate cost of the new model be 10 time the Government ' s estimate . I hope that the Department will publish its detailed working soon , but surely the bottom line be that the cost of living crisis have not go away , and the Minister be basically introduce a system that will cost UK consumer more to check on import come from the EU to standard that be exactly the same as the UK ' s , and which of course meet EU standard in the first place . do he seriously think that voter will forgive he ? the right hon . Gentleman say that there will be extensive cost . as I say , for low - risk product they be £ 10 per product , limit to a maximum of five product per common health entry document . that mean that the cost be reasonable . we calculate that there will be a 0 . 2 % increase in cost over three year . he say that these good be come from within the EU under the same regulation . african swine fever be move across Europe . it be already present in Italy . be that disease to get to the UK , it would be devastating for the UK pork market and the UK pig population . it would also damage our ability to export pork product around the world if we lose our credibility as be free from african swine fever . the Minister be absolutely right about the devastating impact of not have proper check and the risk of african swine fever , so can he explain why Dover Port Health be have its cost slash for essential check at the border ? will he accept that the exist check should be maintain in full at Dover Port Health ; that Dover port of be the right authority , with its state - of - the - art facility , to do these important check , in respect of which it be the most experienced body across the entire channel ; and that we should not risk have these check at some new , untested , supposedly train facility 22 mile away in Ashford ? that be a risk to this country . I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s tenacious campaign on behalf of her constituent and the port of Dover , but I hope she will not mind my draw attention to the fact that these be separate regime : good come in legally , via legal channel , with the right documentation will move to Sevington , but the port of Dover be the right place for Border Force to ensure that we be protect from illegal import , and those check will still take place . the conversation with the Port of Dover over funding continue , and we want to see Port of Dover continue to help to keep we safe and intercept any illegal import that people may attempt to bring into the UK . those of we from rural community , particularly those like mine in Cumbria that have to live through the horror of the foot and mouth outbreak in 2001 , know how vital it be to have biosecurity at our border — but intelligently apply , so that we do not damage supply chain and have excessive red tape . do this issue not shine a spotlight on the fact that we be now , sadly , increasingly reliant on food import ? Britain produce only 60 % of the food we eat . do that not remind we that the Government ' s agricultural payment scheme , which actively disincentivise the production of food on good - quality , productive agricultural land , be extremely foolish and should be reverse if we be serious about our security as a country ? I be familiar with the beauty of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency ; as he know , I be there on Saturday with the shadow Minister . he give the figure for what we import in total , but for the food we can produce we be at 72 % . the Prime Minister have also recognise that challenge , and we will introduce a food security index so that we can monitor this issue , to make sure that the Government ' s policy do drive farmer to increase their productivity and their production . I have full confidence in the ability of our farmer to continue to produce top - quality british food , to continue to expand their productivity and to keep the country well feed . these change be require under World Trade Organisation rule and be about keep we safe from disease threat , but in practical term , how will it work for mixed load in particular , to reduce the cost to business and therefore to consumer ? my hon . Friend ask an important question . that be why we have cap the maximum charge to five per load , particularly to support sme . as I say , for those of medium risk the charge be £ 10 , or a maximum of £ 50 per load . that cap be specifically aim at help and support sme that be import food into the UK . what do the Government have against the £ 6 . 2 billion floristry industry in this country , which employ 240 , 000 people — seven time as many dentist as we have in this country ? many of they work in small family business on very small margin . why do the Government do absolutely no impact assessment when they increase the cost for those bring in chrysanthemum , dianthus , solidago , orchid and gypsophila to £ 500 and introduce severe delay on product that need to be at market by 9 o ' clock in the morning ? wedding , funeral , mother ' day and Valentine ' s day — be there any family event that will not feel the dead hand of this Government ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight how important that sector be to the UK economy ; that be why we want to protect those grow flower here in the UK from any disease that may be import via product that have not come through the right channel with the right documentation . we want to keep the grow sector in the UK safe from any of those disease ; that be why we be introduce these check . the border operating model will not apply on trade between Northern Ireland and Great Britain ; those trade route be exempt . however , give the record of dodgy product be manufacture in the Irish Republic and bring through Northern Ireland to GB , can the Minister give an assurance that , should that route be use either by Republic of Ireland producer or other EU producer , he will not be instal check on Northern Ireland to GB trade , which be so important to the Northern Ireland food industry and economy ? of course , we recognise the importance of the Northern Ireland economy , and we want to ensure that Northern Ireland feel part of the United Kingdom . we will do everything we can to limit any impact . as the right hon . Gentleman identifie , there be currently no timescale for the introduction of the way in which we will monitor and work with those who be move good across from that part of the United Kingdom . we want to ensure that that do not become a back - door route , and we will continue to have conversation with the authority in that part of the world . on the subject of back - door route , can my right hon . friend tell we when the border control point for the Welsh port that connect to the EU through the Republic of Ireland will be operational ? I can not give my right hon . friend a date at this moment in time , but we be in detailed conversation — particularly with those at the port of Holyhead , which be an important UK port — and as soon as we have a date , I will update he from the Dispatch Box . the Minister say that this policy will benefit Britain , but the Centre for Economic Performance say that our food price be already 30 % high because of Brexit , and independent analysis show that the Government ' s approach will cost another £ 2 . 9 billion . why be he ignore british business estimate on this issue and hit british customer with another Tory tax at this difficult time ? as the hon . Gentleman will be aware from my previous answer , we be work hard to ensure that we keep UK food producer free from plant and animal disease . that be why we be introduce these check in a proportionate way that do not impact on business , it be why we have limit the amount of charge that can be introduce to five per lorryload , it be why we have ensure that those fee be set at only £ 10 for medium - risk product , and it be why we will continue to work with industry to ensure that we have a proportionate approach that do not take cash away from business and only recover the cost of keep we safe as a country . why have the Government refuse to implement a tonnage - base approach , as the EU do , which would support small and medium - sized importer , particularly in Wellingborough ? not do so risk put they out of business . to avoid that , will the Minister adopt measure such as ensure that all small and medium - sized importer can join the trust trader scheme ? we do look at different model . of course , we could have adopt the model of third country to the EU , but that would have create significant cost for those wish to import food across the channel . we also look at adopt the EU ' s model , which , again , would have cost way more than the model that we be introduce . the model that we be roll out tomorrow be the good and most pragmatic model that we have be able to develop through work with and listen to the advice of those in the sector . food price be 30 % high than they be three year ago , and independent estimate reckon that new border check be equivalent to add a 10 % tariff to import . what assessment have the Minister make of the impact that border check will have on living standard in Welsh household , in which one in every four adult have be skip meal to make end meet ? actually , on increase food price in Wales , the big danger be take 20 % of land away from Welsh farmer and out of production and impose a top - down approach to those farmer . I hope that the right hon . Lady will rethink her support for the Welsh Government ' s disastrous proposal , which will drive thousand and thousand of people out of Welsh agriculture . as a direct result of all these change , small business will close , job will be lose and consumer choice will be reduce . that be the exact opposite of what Brexit be suppose to achieve , be it not ? I do not accept the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation . this be a pragmatic approach to keep the country safe from animal and plant disease while allow the free flow of trade via a model in which people can get certification away from the port to ensure that they can import product , and stamp down on those who want to act illegally . obviously , these control will introduce additional logistical step , which be problematic for time - critical product . I recently meet people from Maincrop Potatoes Ltd in my constituency . it trade potato to producer , so it have a deadline to hit on those production line , and it will be import more this year because of the disastrous potato harvest . can the Minister provide any reassurance that that process will be streamline enough to enable that business to continue to move its good around in a timely way ? I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . what the hon . Lady have describe be exactly what we want to try to achieve : make sure that trade , particularly in good such as potato , flow across the channel as freely as possible , but that we protect ourselves from disease such as brown rot that could be devastating to the UK ' s potato production . could the Minister set out the Government ' s current policy towards a comprehensive UK - EU veterinary agreement , and what negotiation — if any — be happen in that regard ? that would surely be a huge win for consumer and producer right across the UK , and would have the add bonus of far reduce the level of check require on agrifood movement across the Irish sea . I do not think that if we be to reach that agreement , it would include veterinary medicine , but of course we continue to have conversation with our friend in the EU to remove as many barrier as possible . we have a strong interest in make sure that the farmer and vet in Northern Ireland continue to get adequate supply of medicine , and we will work with our friend in the EU to unblock as many of those barrier as possible . my understanding be that the Minister be oppose to Brexit in 2016 , and I presume one of the reason for that be that he oppose red tape . do this measure and other not indicate that , as fear , Brexit be turn into the big chapter of red tape in UK economic history ? I be a strong believer in democracy . the Brexit debate be one that be settle by the great british public . they vote to leave the European Union , and now I want to embrace the opportunity that that bring for the UK . as a government , we will continue to work tirelessly to make sure that we make Brexit work for the UK and seize those opportunity that come our way . I be now go to have to suspend the House . I suggest that we suspend for 10 minute in order to allow the Front Benchers to read the statement . sitting suspend . Health and Disability Reform 4 . 51 pm Order . the sitting be now resume . the reason for the suspension be because the statement , which under the ministerial code should have be deliver at a minimum of 45 minute prior to the statement be make , be deliver late ; I know the Secretary of State will want to look into the matter and report back to the Speaker . first , may I apologise profusely to the House that a copy of my statement be not provide to Mr Speaker and indeed those on the Opposition Front Benches sufficiently in advance of my statement ? may I also take this as my first opportunity in the House to say how saddened I be by the passing of Frank Field , a true champion of welfare reform who be always prepared to work across party ? while we do not always agree on all matter , I share and admire his belief that welfare mean transform life . with permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement on the consultation we be launch today on the change to the personal independence payment , which aim to create a benefit system that can well support disabled people and people with long - term health condition to live full and independent life . this government ' s priority be to make sure that our welfare system be fair and compassionate : fair on the taxpayer by ensure that people of working age who can work do work ; and fair on those in most need of the state ' s help . welfare at its good be about more than just benefit payment ; it be about change life for the well . in recent year the Government have deliver successive reform to create a system that be fair and more compassionate while provide value for the taxpayer . we have reform an outdated and complex legacy benefit system and introduce universal credit — a new , modern benefit that ensure people be well off in work than on benefit . last year we publish a landmark White Paper announce significant reform to focus the welfare system on what people can do rather than what they can not . we be deliver our £ 2 . 5 billion back to work plan , substantially expand the employment support to help more disabled people and people with health condition to start , stay and succeed in work . our reform to the work capability assessment will well reflect the opportunity in the modern world of work and ensure that more people get the support they need to move into employment , while protect those unable to work , and in February we publish the disability action plan to make this country the most accessible place in the world for people to live , work and thrive . in addition , the Government have provide unprecedented help for the most vulnerable , include by implement one of the large cost of live support package in Europe , which prevent 1 . 3 million people from fall into absolute poverty during a time of global inflationary pressure . we have increase benefit by 6 . 7 % and raise the local housing allowance , benefit 1 . 6 million household by an average of around £ 800 this year . our approach to transform the benefit system for disabled people and people with long - term health condition be guide by three important priority : provide the right support to the people who need it most ; target our resource most effectively ; and support disabled people to reach their full potential and to live independently . although we have make significant progress , the disability benefit system for adult of working age be not consistently provide support in the way that be intend . it have be more than a decade since the introduction of the personal independence payment . the intention be that it would be a more sustainable , more dynamic benefit that would provide well target support to help disabled people with the extra cost arise from their disability . however , the nature and understanding of disability and ill health in Britain have change profoundly since then , and the clinical case mix have evolve in line with those broad change , include many more people apply for disability benefit with mental health and neurodivergent condition . since 2015 , the proportion of the caseload receive the high rate of PIP have increase from 25 % to 36 % . some 7 % of working - age people in England and Wales be now claim PIP or disability living allowance , which be forecast to rise to 10 % by 2028 - 29 . in 2022 - 23 , the Government spend £ 15 . 7 billion on extra cost disability benefit for people of work age in England and Wales , and the Office for Budget Responsibility have forecast that the cost will rise to £ 29 . 8 billion in nominal term by 2028 - 29 . there be now more than 33 , 000 new award for PIP per month . that figure have almost double since the pandemic . with almost a quarter of the adult population now report a disability — up from 16 % in 2013 — I believe that now be the time for a new conversation about how the benefit system can well support people to live full and independent life . today I be launch a consultation to explore change that could be make to the current PIP system to ensure that support be focus where it be most need . these option include : make change to eligibility criterion for PIP ; redesign the PIP assessment to well target it towards the individual need of disabled people and people with health condition , include explore whether people with specific health condition or disability can be take out of PIP assessment all together ; and reform the PIP assessment so that it be more link to a person ' s condition . we be also consult on whether we should make fundamental change to how we provide support to disabled people and people with a health condition . we know that any additional cost arise from a disability or health condition , which PIP be intend to help with , can vary significantly and be unique to the individual ' s circumstance . some people on PIP may have relatively small one - off cost , such as walk aid or aid to help with eating and drinking , or ongoing additional cost relate to their disability or health condition , such as help around the home or run a ventilator . some claimant ’ cost will be fully cover by their award , while other may find the current system do not provide enough support to meet their need , yet the current system operate a one - size - fit - all model and do not channel people towards bespoke support tailor to an individual ' s need . we recognise that well , more targeted support could be provide by other local service . our plan include explore how the welfare system could be improve with new approach to provide support , such as : move away from a fix cash benefit system , so that people can receive more tailored support in line with their need ; explore how to well align the support PIP offer with exist service and offer of support available to disabled people and people with health condition ; and explore alternative way of support people to live independent and fulfilling life , which could mean financial support be well target at people who have specific extra cost , but could also involve improve support of other kind , such as respite care or physical or mental health treatment , aim to achieve well outcome for individual . crucially , we want to explore whether we can achieve our aim within the current structure of health and disability benefit , or whether wide change be need . we be consult over the next 12 week to seek view from across society , include disabled people and representative organisation , to ensure that everyone have a chance to shape welfare reform that will modernise the support provide through the benefit system . we know that these reform be significant in their scale and ambition , but we will not shy away from the challenge face our welfare system today . we owe that to the million of people who rely on it and to the hard - work people whose taxis underpin it . that be what the next generation of welfare reform be all about . these proposal will help to create a benefit system that can well support disabled people and people with long - term health condition to live full and independent life , and they be a crucial part of my mission to ensure that the welfare system be fair and compassionate and that it provide the right help to those who need it most . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Secretary of State for his comment about Frank Field . both I and my hon . friend the Member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , who be sit alongside I on the Front Bench , think the world of Frank . I thank the Secretary of State for his tribute to a person who be completely unique in every way . with regard to advance sight of the Secretary of State ' s statement , I say : apology accept . labour will carefully review the detail of the Green Paper , because the country that we want be one where disabled people have the same right to a good job and help to get it as anyone else . we will judge any measure that the Government bring forward on its merit and against that principle , because the cost of failure in this area be unsustainable . the autonomy and routine of work be good for we all , for our mental and physical health — and more than that , for woman , work be freedom , too . I have read the Secretary of State ' s gibe about Labour . he say that he do not know what our position be on a set of reform that he have not set out . the Prime Minister make a speech about this issue two week ago , but every single day since then the Government have fail to publish the Green Paper . the Secretary of State want my view on his , until this moment , unpublished thought . what be the problem ? be the printer jam ? rather , be it that the Prime Minister and Secretary of State realise that , as soon as they publish the Green Paper , everyone would realise the truth about the Government : like the Prime Minister who lead they , they be long on question and short when it come to the answer ? the Green Paper be not a plan ; it be an exam that the Secretary of State be hope he will never have to sit . the reason he want to know labour ' s plan be that he suspect he will be long go before any of these proposal be a reality . will the Secretary of State tell I where the Green Paper leave the Government ' s early half - bake plan to scrap the work capability assessment , give that the idea behind that be to use the PIP assessment ? he say that some health condition can be take out of PIP assessment . which condition be he talk about ? PIP be the creation of a Conservative Government , so where be the analysis of what have go wrong ? PIP replace DLA , and now we be hear that PIP be the problem . how many more time will we go around this same roundabout ? do the Government ' s plan involve treat people ' s mental and physical health differently ? can he explain the legal basis for do so ? importantly , on health itself , be this Green Paper not a huge admission of the Tory failure on the NHS , in that it take as its starting point the fact that people today simply can not get the treatment and care they need ? what will the cost of any new system be , in particular those of any extra support of the kind he mention ? will we see a White Paper before a general election ? I be stand in today and for the next few week for my hon . friend the Member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) , who believe that health and work be two side of the same coin . that be the insight that the Government be miss today . I ask myself how we get here . the country today be sicker — that be the legacy of this Government . nhs waiting list be long than they have ever be — that be the legacy of the Secretary of State ' s party . if he do not know how bad thing be in mental healthcare , he need only to ask my hon . friend the Member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Dr Poulter ) . there be 2 . 8 million people who be lock out of work due to long - term sickness . that be the conservative legacy : like ice on our potholed road , the Tories have widen the crack in our economy and society , make they all much bad . with respect to mental health , in recent week the Secretary of State have decide to speak out of both side of his mouth . on the one hand , he say , " I ' m grateful for today ' s much more open approach to mental health " , but with the same breath he go on to say , " there be danger that this have go too far . " he want it both way . he think that openness about mental health be good , but then he say the very thing that bring back the stigma . every time the Secretary of State speak , he make it less likely that people will be open about their mental health . on behalf of all of we who have ever have a panic attack at work , or bad , can I say that that stigma stop people from get treatment , it make get help hard , and it keep people out of work , not in it ? a Labour Government will take a totally different approach . we will not only ensure more appointment but have an extra 8 , 500 mental health staff . the last Labour Government deliver the high patient satisfaction on record , and that be the record on which we will build . the issue that we be discuss be big than just health ; it be also about work . because of our commitment to serve work people , we will make work well , too . we will have the new deal for work people , improve right for the first time in a generation , and we will drive up employment in every region because we will devolve employment support and end the tick - box culture in jobcentre . we will tear down the barrier to work for disabled people and provide help for young people . that will get Britain work again . Harold Wilson say that unemployment , above all else , make he political . those of we who grow up see people throw on the scrapheap in the ' 80 and ' 90 feel the same . every young person out of work today will never forget whose hand be on the tiller when these Tories rob they of hope . it be time for a change , and a general election . I thank the hon . Lady for her response and the gracious manner in which she accept my apology , which be much appreciated . the hon . Lady say that she can not be expect to comment on the PIP proposal , but I remind she that the work capability assessment proposal go through a consultation , and we still do not know where the Labour party stand on those . we have speak about fit note reform , we be set up WorkWell , and in the autumn we will trial some of those fit note possibility . we do not know where the Labour party stand at all on those matter . one would have think that give the central role that PIP play in the welfare system in our society and country , the Labour party would have some kind of view on that benefit . but we hear precisely nothing on that matter because the Labour party have no plan . the consequence of that will be that , as under previous Labour Governments , the welfare bill will continue to spiral out of control . that will fall to hard - work family up and down the country to pay , by way of high taxation . the hon . Lady ask about the abolition of the work capability assessment , which , as she say , be set out in the White Paper . those measure will not be due to come into effect until 2026 . we will take into account the conclusion that may be draw as a result of this consultation when we consider that matter . she raise numerous other question , many of which be include in the consultation . I be sure that she will actively take part in the consultation as we work towards the answer to those question . I be rather surprised that the hon . Lady raise the NHS . this party be spend more on the national health service than at any time in its history , with a 13 % real - term increase in spending over the last couple of year , 21 , 000 additional nurse and 7 , 000 more doctor in the last 12 month alone , and from next year £ 2 . 4 billion additional spend on mental health service , to which she refer . that be on top of the additional £ 4 . 7 billion that the Chancellor previously set aside for more mental health treatment and , at the last fiscal event , 400 , 000 additional talk therapy within the national health service . the hon . Lady conclude by refer to Harold Wilson ' s comment on unemployment . I simply refer she to the fact that under every single Labour Government in the history of this country , unemployment have be high at the end of their term of office than at the beginning . a constituent who have cerebral palsy have be in touch with I this afternoon to outline how he currently use PIP . it give he the freedom to live independently and work full time , as he use it to buy mobility aide such as hoist and wheelchair . his concern be that any change to PIP might push those cost on to the NHS and reduce his flexibility to choose what to spend the money on and when . he do not want to be push into a cycle of renewal that may be too rapid and therefore cost the NHS more money . what reassurance can my right hon . friend give that this consultation will enable those sort of concern to be highlight and that , in the long term , it will give more choice and not restrict my constituent ' s freedom ? I thank my right hon . friend very much indeed for that question and for raise the issue of her constituent . the reassurance I can give she be that we be aim for the good outcome . there will be a number of way in which those good outcome may be achieve — that be the purpose of the consultation — but it be reasonable to at least explore the issue of whether cash transfer payment be always the right solution , particularly give the growth in mental health condition we have see in recent time . the final point I would make be that we be absolutely interested in example of situation where people have lifelong regressive illness from which , unfortunately , they be not go to recover , and to ask whether , under those circumstance , it be right to require they to go through re - assessment . follow today ' s statement , the announcement make a couple of week ago and all the propose change , people be scared . they be scared because they rely on these payment , which have change their life . they have be able to access support that they otherwise would not have be able to get . it be very clear that the announce change be not be create by disabled people , with disabled people at their heart of the decision - make process . this be a Government consultation and then people be be ask to input into it . it be totally different from the situation in Scotland , where the adult disability payment be create with disabled people in the room talk about the good way to make the payment work and the good way to have assessment process . basically , the answer that come back be , " do not do they anything like the assessment process for PIP . " everybody should have the income to live with dignity , whether or not they be able to work . I be massively concerned by the comment that the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister allegedly make about people with mental health difficulty only face the " ordinary difficulty of life " . it be very clear that anybody who be able to say that have not suffer from depression , and have not feel that absolute energy - sapping that come alongside suffer depression or anxiety . these be real condition . these be real thing that people be struggle with . and the lack of the ability to work be just as serious for people with mental health condition as it can be for people with physical health condition . I have a couple of specific question . in relation to universal credit , it be a gateway benefit . will the Secretary of State assure we that any change that might be make to eligibility criterion around universal credit will be fully consult on and fully discuss , particularly with anybody who administer benefit that be allow through those gateway benefit ? have the Secretary of State speak to the Scottish Government about the creation of the adult disability payment with disabled people in the room , ensure that at the forefront of every decision be dignity and respect ? those be the two key column of the scottish benefit system . the Secretary of State could learn a lot from that approach . I thank the hon . Lady for her response to my statement . I reassure she that disabled people will be very much involve in the process and the consultation . it will be a 12 - week consultation and of course we will take they , their comment and representative organisation extremely seriously . the hon . Lady ' s comment about the importance of recognise that many , many people unfortunately suffer from very serious mental health challenge be extremely well make . I be absolutely determined that whatever conclusion we draw from the consultation , they should lead we to a position where the Government be well able to support people who be in those circumstance . on whether there will be question in the consultation on the passporting of PIP into other benefit , the answer be yes . that be something we be most certainly consult on . on the scottish equivalent of PIP — this be , of course , a devolved matter — yes , the Department have be in discussion with the equivalent official in the civil service and the Scottish Government . we be look forward to consider , as I know the Scottish Government will be , the independent review of that benefit , which be be conduct at the present time . may I ask the Secretary of State about his comment on the one - size - fit - all model not work if people incur very different cost from their disability ? surely he be not expect people to send in invoice to prove how much support they need , so be he look at have more tier of award ? for example , disability living allowance use to have three tier , rather than two . be that one of his option for try to reduce cost ? by mention " one size fit all " , I be say that we should explore whether the approach we have at the moment have the good outcome . we have much to learn from the experience of country around the world that have a similar benefit but go about its organisation and application in a different way . New Zealand make payment base on invoice for equipment submit by those who receive the benefit . Norway do not have assessment in the way that we do ; it rely more on evidence provide by medical practitioner . we should go into this with an open mind . Bear in mind that there have be no fundamental review of PIP for over a decade . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . PIP assessment provider confirm that worsen delay in NHS treatment be a big factor in the increase in the number of people apply for PIP . the Secretary of State have confirm this afternoon that the work capability assessment be to be scrap and replace by PIP assessment . there be people who be too ill to work , but not disabled , and so not eligible for PIP . how will their support be assess in the absence of work capability assessment ? as I have set out , we will need to look at the conclusion that can be draw from the consultation in the context of the replacement of the work capability assessment and PIP become the gateway to future universal credit health benefit , as the right hon . Gentleman mention . these be question that be be ask in the consultation . in the spring of 2019 , before I be elect , I be diagnose with an anxiety disorder . I be extremely ill with it , and could not work for several month , so I know for myself how debilitate that can be , but I also know that with treatment and support , you can lead a fulfilling career and a normal life that be extremely rewarding . I would have be devastate to have be out of the workforce for the long term . how will the reform in the Green Paper help anxiety sufferer to get the treatment and support that they need to return to work , and also to take back their life ? I thank my hon . friend for a powerful and move contribution to today ' s statement . I be pleased that she be in such fine form nowadays , know she as well as I do . the answer to her question lie in the consultation , and the recognition that the one - size - fit - all approach be not necessarily right . those whom she describe may well be well serve by receive treatment , rather than cash transfer benefit . that be not a preconceived outcome that I have in my mind , but it be one of the possibility on which we be seek opinion . the charity sense have criticise the Government ' s narrative around disability benefit , highlight the divisive and deeply damaging language use , which far stigmatise some of the most vulnerable people in society . disabled people have tell Sense that they be sick with worry about whether they will lose their personal independence payment , which be vital — a lifeline — for they . give the Tory cost of living crisis that we have be live through for multiple year , do the Secretary of State not think that disabled people need more support , not dangerous rhetoric that cast they as undeserve ? we be certainly not stigmatise anybody — far from it . indeed , in the consultation , it be explicitly recognise that there might be some disabled people who need additional help , beyond the help that they be get at the moment . I make reference early to those who have lifetime progressive illness and condition that , sadly , be not go to improve . the question be be ask : do we need to ask those individual to attend reassessment and jump through bureaucratic hoop , with all the anxiety that may go with that , or should we have a well system that well look after they ? I totally agree with the Secretary of State that everyone get dignity from be in work , but he will be aware of the very high level of unemployment experience by those with learn disability and autism . bear in mind that able - bodied people over 50 struggle to find work , let alone those with a disability or long - term health condition , what do he propose do to change the attitude of employer , so that they recognise that everyone have a skill and a role to play , and that everyone be an asset ? I thank my hon . friend for that really pertinent question . she will be familiar with the Buckland review , which have report . I be very keen to pursue that review when it come across my desk , and I make my official and the necessary infrastructure available to ensure that it be able to go ahead . it address many of the issue to which my hon . friend rightly point , in term of employer accommodate and benefit from those who have autism and other condition . can I start by commend the hon . member for Rushcliffe ( Ruth Edwards ) on her comment ? they really go to the heart of some of what we be discuss . one of the challenge for the Government in talk about PIP be that they start this whole conversation by refer to the back to work plan , which make many disabled people feel that this be about get they back to work and reduce the overall welfare budget , when PIP be suppose to be about ensure that they get the right support for their disability . on PIP , a big challenge that all mps deal with be the number of error in the system , and particularly the number of case that end up at a tribunal . if we be look into have a system that target support well , what assurance can the Secretary of State give that it will actually be a well system , with few error ? there be two point there . first , error in the benefit system — overpayment , underpayment and so on — be relatively rare . secondly , on how we approach those who have long - term sickness or disability , the hon . Lady will see , if she refer to the back to work plan , that we be give the 2 . 8 million people on those long - term benefit the opportunity to try work without fear of lose those benefit at all . we have make that extremely explicit . that be simply free up the system , and try to get rid of some of the barrier that those people otherwise face . I need to read the detail , but on the face of it , there be much to be welcome in the Secretary of State ' s statement . however , there be 2 . 6 million DLA and PIP working - age recipient and their family who will no doubt be concern about the future of their support , so can my right hon . Friend assure the House that he will tread carefully and think really carefully about tone and the language that we use , and that we will listen to those with live experience and the charity that support they ? I thank my hon . friend ; he have do a great deal in the important area that this statement and consultation be address . as he know , my door be always open to he , at every step along the way , so that I can listen to his thought . I can assure he that question of tone , language , and treading carefully be absolutely at the forefront of my mind . there be 4 , 500 people in Newcastle Central who be out of the workforce and economically inactive due to disability or ill health . the Government have fail they when it come to the benefit system , fail they when it come to support they to work , which be so important , and fail they when it come to the NHS . how will the £ 46 billion black hole in the Government ' s plan to abolish national insurance payment enable the Government to fix their failing ? on the hon . Lady ' s political point , I should point out that economic inactivity be low today than in every single year of the last Labour Government — that be our record , compare with her party ' s . she will know full well that reduce the £ 46 billion national insurance figure still far , and finally eliminate it , be a very long - term aspiration . I understand why the Labour party try to make it more than that . what be more than that be the £ 28 billion that her party suggest will be make available through its energy and net zero offering , which it be still talk about to the electorate . I commend the Secretary of State ' s approach as be entirely realistic , give that the disability benefit system be not consistently provide support in the way that it be mean to . he be also right to take a strategic look , because he be correct that the understanding of disability and ill health have change quite significantly in Britain , in some way for the well , and there be an imperative to consider that , in the light of our labour market and the broad economy . the Secretary of State be also correct to be comprehensive in his approach in today ' s Green Paper , the prior White Paper and other connected work . will he also be comprehensive in deliver on those measure , across Government ? can he give we assurance about the way that he be set up for the work that will need to be do if this be to be a success , include with the NHS and local authority , for those who need support with their disability or ill health ? it be my understanding that the NHS perhaps know less than it could about how to help people , holistically and individually , to move back into work , or with the thing that they need and care about . finally , how be the Secretary of State work with employer to ensure that we unlock the workforce productivity need in this country ? I thank my right hon . friend for her very astute comment , which be build on her great experience of the exact issue that we be discuss , both as Secretary of State and , before that , as a very successful Minister for this area in the Department for Work and Pensions . she be absolutely right to recognise that society have change a great deal in the 10 year since this benefit be fundamentally review . I will , of course , continue to work very closely with my colleague in the national health service and the Department of Health and Social Care . we collaborate on set up WorkWell , which will be roll out in 15 of the 42 health area of England this autumn , bring together the world of work and healthcare . the White Paper specifically invite thought on how local authority could be more involved in PIP or any successor . my right hon . friend be absolutely right to mention employer , and I have no doubt that she be aware of the two consultation we have run on increase occupational health , in which employer have a particularly important role to play . the Secretary of State question the need to reassess certain group . after visit my local Motor Neurone Disease Association support group , I can tell he that those with motor neurone disease be one group who absolutely do not need or deserve reassessment . on the wide point about mental health condition , I hope that the Secretary of State will talk to his colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care . I have have many experience of constituent waiting month , if not year , for the assessment of neurodivergent condition or mental health support . we clearly can not address the issue that he want to address in the consultation if we do not fix the NHS workforce crisis . the hon . Gentleman raise a very important point about mental health , and I can reassure he , as I reassure my right hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Chloe Smith ) , that we will continue to work very closely with the DHSC on the proposal as they emerge . in response to an early question , I mention that the Chancellor have bring forward funding for 400 , 000 additional NHS talk therapy , for example , which may be an important part of what we develop . compassion have to be at the heart of this consultation . I have see patient who have to be reassess repeatedly , which do not seem fair , but I have also see patient who do not engage with service and do not take medication , yet be sign off , which be not compassionate either . one practical way forward be to bring DWP close to GP surgery , so that people can have their hand hold when they get to a diagnosis , whether it be of anxiety or a physical complaint , or whether they be recover from an operation . will the Minister consider that in the consultation ? DWP join up with primary care would be a fantastic way to help GPs help their patient — and to help the DWP . I thank my hon . friend for a sensible set of question . he refer to the importance of bring GPs together with advice and support to get people into work . that be very much the focus of our fit note reform , upon which we have a call for evidence at the moment . I be grateful to the Minister for his swift response to my request early this afternoon for support for the people at Everest in Treherbert , who look likely to lose their job in the next few day . depression and anxiety be real , be they not ? it be not just a question of people pull up their sock , as some in the crueller part of the commentariat have suggest . all too often , talk therapy be least available in the area with the high level of economic inactivity , so how be we go to change that ? on the intersection between mental health and physical health that be acquire brain injury , do the Department even know how many people who have have an acquire brain injury be in receipt of PIP or of universal credit ? if the Minister do not know the answer today , will he write to I ? if both he and his Department do not know the answer , as I bet be the case , will he make sure that the Department find out before it implement something that could provide even more problem for people who be try to get their life back together ? first , I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment about the job situation in his constituency . let I reassure he that my Department will do whatever it can to assist with those circumstance . the hon . Gentleman rightly point out that depression , anxiety and mental health condition be very real , and in many case extremely severe , which be why I be absolutely determined that we should do whatever we can , where appropriate , to provide as much support as possible to people . as for his question about acquire brain injury and how many PIP recipient be in that situation , I do not think he would expect I to know off the top of my head . it would be rather impressive if I do know . I will , as he have suggest , write to he . you have never impress I before , and I have know you a very long time ! that be probably fair . as the hon . Gentleman point out , he have know I for a very long time , and I recall that when we be at university together he be a young conservative , as I be . how thing have progress , or perhaps I should say regress , since then ? do my right hon . friend agree that my proposal over the past few year to improve support in the workplace for mental health be essential as part of this programme of work ? do he also agree that one aspect of that , which I have raise repeatedly in my work and suggestion , would be to make sure that physical and mental health be give firm parity in the Health and Safety Executive guideline ? I believe that would help both employer and employee , both in my constituency and nationally . we be consider the issue of parity that my hon . friend have raise . he be absolutely right to raise the issue of mental health support — occupational health support — within business , which be why we have consult on that matter . I be particularly keen to see what we can do not just for large company , but for small and medium - sized enterprise , to make sure that they engage more fully in that respect . a considerable number of constituent have already contact I because they be worried about what the Government be propose ; the key message they want to get across be that have disability or a serious mental illness be not their choice and not something they have control over . the Secretary of State mention tailor support an awful lot in his statement . my experience be that when people with disability have engagement with the system and have to go through the process of make an application , be assess and so on , that be a cause of great anxiety and often the decision be wrong . if he be propose more tailor support and more engagement with bureaucracy , particularly for people with fluctuate condition such as myalgic encephalomyelitis , how be he go to get it right ? he have not manage to get it right so far . I be absolutely determined that we be not go to be see more bureaucracy . indeed , I set out that one question we be explore in the consultation relate to those who , sadly , have condition from which they be not go to recover or improve . in those circumstance , I want to see less bureaucracy and a system where we be not have to reassess people in a superfluous way , cause anxiety and put they to that inconvenience . the other point that the hon . Lady raise be of course exactly the kind of question we be ask in the consultation , and I urge the constituent who have write to she to engage in that consultation process over the next three month . my right hon . friend be right to emphasise the importance of focus on what people can do , rather than what they can not , and it be worth note that there be 2 . 2 million more disabled people in work than 10 year ago . however , as he mention , the benefit system be not just about work ; it be about ensure people live full and independent life . he say that during the consultation there will be engagement with disabled people and their representative organisation , which be critical , but each individual ' s need be personal to they , so how will he ensure as many voice as possible be listen to during the consultation ? the consultation will be very thorough . it be available in accessible format to ensure we cater to the great extent that we can , and that we get the good possible and most universal feedback . I be pleased that my hon . Friend speak to the issue of the employment of disabled people . in 2017 , we set a 10 - year target of a million more disabled people in employment ; we break that target in five year rather than 10 . announce that disabled people suffer from certain condition will no long receive support payment , but instead get improve access to treatment , be one of the most absurd policy to have come out of this Government in the past 14 year . the Government plan rely on imagined brilliant mental healthcare support be available . be the Minister even aware how long people have to wait for treatment after be refer ? after 14 year of this Tory Government gutte our NHS and our mental healthcare , even basic access to treatment do not exist , let along the improved access the Minister be rely on in the fantasy world he live in . I simply do not recognise the comment the hon . Gentleman have make about our national health service . there be more people work in the national health service than at any time in its history : 21 , 000 more nurse and 7 , 000 more doctor in the past year alone . we be spend a record sum on the national health service . I will not give chapter and verse , as I do early , as to the other thing we be do , but we be completely committed to the health and mental health of people up and down the country . there will be new way of do thing . if we do not have a grow - up conversation , as I describe it , about those matter , we will not discover those new way . WorkWell be a completely new way of address issue , such as mental health , and encourage people to stay or go back into work . it do not exist 18 month ago ; it come about because we consult people and come up with a solution . I would like to give the Secretary of State the benefit of the doubt , and he have make a number of important point , but those 2 . 6 million people and their family who will have hear his statement will be absolutely terrified . a lot of they will feel that the reform be just about provide some kind of cut to service . I believe that we need to try to support those people and put compassion at the heart of our welfare system . there be report of up to 2 million people wait for mental health treatment at the moment , so do the Secretary of State believe that in this " compassionate " review , where we be go to have a " grow - up conversation " , we will be able to see more money invest to ensure that those 2 million people can get more mental health support ? my hon . friend raise important point that be core to the consultation that be be carry out . the corollary to my hon . friend ' s argument be that we should not do anything and stay with a system that have not be revisit for over a decade , despite the fact that the terrain have change substantially , not least in term of the increase in those suffering from mental health condition . I say no to that . we need to have a grow - up conversation about these matter if we be to provide well support for the people whom hon . member across the House care about . the Minister be right : economic inactivity rate have soar because of ill health , and where possible we want those people to get back into work . it be for their own good . it be also for the good of the hard - work taxpayer to have those cost minimise . however , give that these proposal come at the tail end of a Government , who have just week or month to go , I doubt very much that the measure will become a reality for many people . I have one question for the Minister : as this issue be devolve to the Northern Ireland Assembly , have he have any discussion with the Executive about these proposal ? if he have , what response do he get ? should the Executive go in a different direction , what will the economic consequence be for the Northern Ireland Executive ' s budget ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to talk about the importance of work in the context of mental health . that be my strongly hold belief . he be also right to raise the issue of the fiscal sustainability of our welfare system . if the public be to continue to have confidence in that system , we must get the balance right between the requirement of the taxpayer and our absolute determination to support those most in need of help . the right hon . Gentleman ask a specific question about the Northern Ireland Executive . he be right : it be possible for Northern Ireland to decide to manage its benefit in a different way to England . that be not traditionally what have happen . traditionally , Northern Ireland have follow the move that we have make . as to discussion , absolutely , there be always close , ongoing discussion between my Department and our counterpart in Northern Ireland . the Secretary of State have say that the Government ' s approach be fair and compassionate . can he tell I what be compassionate about the language use by the Prime Minister over the past fortnight , when he have refer to a " sick note culture " , imply that people who be force to rely on benefit do so as a lifestyle choice , and , today , talk about the arrest , seizure and crackdown on benefit claimant ? the Disability Poverty Campaign Group , which comprise the major charity that we have all work with , describe the speech as " chill " , " threaten " and " stigmatise " . do the Secretary of State not realise that the language that the Prime Minister have use increase prejudice against disabled people and contribute to the escalation of hate crime against disabled people ? the Prime Minister share my view , which be that it be really important that we achieve the good possible outcome for the people whom we be discuss in this statement . he care a great deal , and I think he say at the end of his speech that he want to help many people , some of whom be watch the screen flicker away while their opportunity drift off into the distance — or word to that effect . that speak from the heart . that say that we have a Prime Minister who care deeply that opportunity in our society should be make as widely available as possible . that be a view , a characteristic and a quality that I admire and that I share with he . the Secretary of State have upset many disabled people and organisation with his clumsy , negative and juvenile approach . mind , for example , have ask for a grow - up conversation . furthermore , the Secretary of State say at the Dispatch Box today that there have never be a review of personal independence payment , but there have be two independent review commission by the Department , so perhaps he could correct the record when he get to his foot . PIP be not an out - of - work benefit , so when will the Department publish its assessment of the impact of these late cut on disabled people use PIP to support themselves in work ? it be the case that there have not be a fundamental review of PIP on the basis that that have subsequently lead to a change in that benefit . therefore , it be the case that that benefit have remain fundamentally the same for more than decade — it actually come in in 2013 , as the hon . Gentleman will know . on what assessment may or may not be make available , I think they will come at a point when the Government arrive at their conclusion have conduct the consultation . member of this House may remember that I have to take a leave of absence from this role three year ago because I have post - traumatic stress disorder . I can tell the House that the insinuation that mental health condition be not debilitate , do not affect people ' s ability to go about their daily life or to go to work , and do not incur additional cost could not be further from the truth . the Prime Minister ' s comment about so - call " sick note culture " and the change that the Government be propose will do nothing to help people with mental illness , and will just make their life hard . why be the Government set back the clock on the acceptance of mental illness as a disability instead of truly tackle the crisis in mental health support ? I be at pain to say this : every time I have come to the Dispatch Box this afternoon , I think I have make it extremely clear that serious mental health condition be very real . I take they very seriously , as I think do everyone in this House . I say to the hon . Lady — [ interruption . ] this be where we need a grow - up conversation . [ interruption . ] this be really important . we need a proper conversation about this , because if at every stage , whenever a Minister suggest that we need to look at a particular area , their motive get impugn in the way that the hon . Lady have — [ interruption . ] she infer that I be actually say that mental health condition should be trivialise in some way . I be definitely not say that . my constituent Elizabeth have be a very hard worker , but also someone who have suffer from ill health . she come to see I at my surgery on Friday to express her alarm about the Prime Minister ' s speech on 19 April , his proposal for sick note , and what she see as his lack of respect for the professionalism of general practitioner . if the issue come up in the Chamber , she ask I to ask the relevant Minister this question : how can a random DWP assessor , face with a complete stranger , base on the brief of interaction , be rely upon to produce a more accurate and objective assessment of a patient ' s condition than her own general practitioner ? I know the Prime Minister share the view that we owe a huge debt of gratitude to our GPs , right up and down the country . they have a highly pressurised job , and they do it extremely well . DWP assessor be highly train individual , and there be very clear guideline on how assessment should be fairly conduct . they be , as the hon . and learn Lady will know , open to appeal where that be necessary . she mention gps . as part of the assessment , which be conclude by a DWP team member , rather than the assessor themselves , take into account all the evidence , it may well be that GPs have an input into many of the decision . the Secretary of State must understand that the rhetoric come from the Government over the past few week have be brutal , divisive and induce unimaginable terror in the two third of people already in destitution who have a chronic health condition or disability . the prospect of further cut be make the situation bad . can he confirm whether he expect overall Government PIP spend to be reduce and , if so , by how much , and what assessment he have make of how his proposal will affect those who be already in material deprivation ? the presumption that the hon . Lady make be that the alternative to consult on a different and potentially much well way forward be to do nothing at all . to I , that be unacceptable . in term of ensure that we truly support all those who need support , I have already give that reassurance from the Dispatch Box . it be make very clear in the consultation that we recognise that there will be people who need more support than they be receive at the moment , but we need to have that conversation in order to get the good outcome . language matter , as we have hear , and the Government have be warn that the language and rhetoric — perhaps not from the Secretary of State himself but from other — risk minimise the impact of mental health condition , which be real and serious . what be the Government ' s plan to ensure that proper treatment be available — not just talk therapy but whatever treatment be appropriate — to ensure that people with mental health condition be treat appropriately ? the hon . Lady raise an extremely important point : the prevalence of mental health condition in our country have grow . there be many reason for that — I know the Labour Party like to say it be all about the NHS , but it be about many other thing , not least social medium among young people . there be many cause . the consultation will look at exactly the question she quite rightly raise . she mention the NHS talk therapy ; I think that , particularly for some less severe mental health condition , combine with work , they can make a real difference . I be very pleased when my right hon . friend the Chancellor bring in 400 , 000 more of those talk therapy at his last fiscal event . back in 2018 , a bad concussion leave I out of work for several month . over time , I become deeply depressed , worried and anxious that I would never get back to full - time work at all . I be lucky that my employer be able to find and to pay for I to get the support I need to get back to work , and I be lucky enough to be here today . however , for many across the country that simply be not the reality they face . why be the Government not focus on make sure everyone have the support they need to get back into work , rather than fall back into the kind of political posturing that will only add to the stress and anxiety that thousand already feel ? if I may say so , first , I be very pleased that the hon . Gentleman be now fit and well and I be sorry he go through the difficult time that he describe . we be do a huge amount ; he may or may not be familiar with universal support , which be there not only to place the kind of people he have describe into work , but , critically , to stay with they for a period of up to 12 month to make sure they have the support to hold that job down . we know that work be good for those with mental health condition . I have already refer to WorkWell , which bring together those who have mental health challenge and work coach who be able to see how work can fit within their recovery programme . we be very much do those thing . if he would like to see I at some point after this statement , I would be happy to sit down with he and talk he through some of the other approach we be take . today ' s statement have be make necessary by the huge deterioration in the nation ' s health and mental health since the pandemic . I think the whole House have to take responsibility , because this House vote for draconian lockdown that devastate mental health , particularly among the young . this House vote to mandate untested experimental treatment , threaten people that they would lose their job if they do not take they , while give immunity from prosecution to the manufacturer for their dangerous and defective product . will the Minister do the good thing he can for public mental health by assure the british public that these mistake have be learn from and will never be inflict upon they again ? I be afraid I simply do not subscribe to the theory that the hon . gentleman promote . I think it be probably good to leave it at that . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and for respond to question . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . during the urgent question on the humanitarian situation in Gaza on 17 April , the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Macclesfield ( David Rutley ) , speak on behalf of the Foreign Secretary , say that the Government want an " independent review " of the terrible killing of british aid worker by the Israel Defence Forces . that follow the Foreign Secretary himself post on x that " a wholly independent review " be require . however , in response to my write question , the Deputy Foreign Secretary say that the Prime Minister have call for a " transparent investigation " into that terrible attack . a transparent investigation be not the same as an independent investigation . give that the whole point of my question in the Chamber be to highlight that investigation conduct by the IDF into its action be not independent , this answer trouble I . give also that the Foreign Secretary refuse to come to this Chamber to be hold accountable , can you advise I , Mr Deputy Speaker , how I can clarify whether the Minister do not accidentally mislead the House in say that the Government want an independent investigation when they be only call for a transparent investigation ? all those who seek accountability for the action of the IDF want to know what the Government ' s position be . I thank the hon . Lady for give notice of her point of order . clearly the Chair be not responsible for the answer of Ministers , but those on the Treasury Bench will have hear the point of order and will make sure that the Minister be able to respond to she . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I seek your advice on how we in this House can ensure that the National Security Online Information Team investigate the Facebook group that Greenpeace expose at the weekend , of which the tory mayoral candidate , Susan Hall , be a member . People have put on this group that they plan to kill our current Mayor , Sadiq Khan . how can we make sure the Government be investigate that ? I thank the hon . member for her point of order and for give forward notice of it . I be sure she could make contact herself with any organisation that can investigate the serious allegation she have just make . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . early today the Minister for Schools say that the statistic I quote on secondary teacher recruitment target be " incorrect " , often repeat and " not right " . I be afraid it be the Minister who be incorrect . the Department for Education ' s own website state — in bold — that 50 % of the initial teacher training recruitment target for secondary teacher be reach in 2023 - 24 , which be what I say . in raw number , that is 13 , 102 secondary school teacher trainee recruit on to course , out of the 26 , 360 the Government say be need . we do not need math to 18 to work out that that be less than 50 % of the target . furthermore , I say in my question that some subject be miss those target by 50 % , yet in many subject they be miss they by way more — for instance , physic only meet 17 % of its target . have you have any indication , Mr Deputy Speaker , that the Minister plan to correct the record ? if not , how do you suggest I go about secure a correction ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order and for give forward notice of it . again , the Chair be not responsible for ministerial response , but those on the Treasury Bench will have hear her remark , and of course we would expect any alteration or correction to be make as soon as possible . I will now hand over to Dame Rosie Winterton for the rest of the business . Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) order , that the Order of 20 March 2024 ( Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Bill ( Programme ) ) be varied as follow : ( 1 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) of the order shall be omit . ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third reading shall be complete in one day . ( 3 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption . ( 4 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption . — ( Robert Largan . ) Post Office ( Horizon System ) offence Bill ( Instructions ) Bill to be consider in Committee . before the House resolve itself into Committee , I draw the House ' s attention to the instruction motion on the Order Paper . they be subject to selection by the Chair , and Mr Speaker have decide to select the motion in the name of Secretary Kemi Badenoch , to allow the Bill to extend to Northern Ireland , and in the name of Marion Fellows , to allow the Committee to make provision in the Bill for it to make provision relate to Scotland . Motion make , and question propose , that it be an instruction to the Committee on the Post Office ( Horizon System ) offence Bill that it have power to make provision in the Bill for it to extend to Northern Ireland . — ( Robert Largan . ) on behalf of the Justice Minister , First Minister and Deputy First Minister , and indeed Northern Ireland mp , I want to put on record briefly our gratitude to the Minister and the Government for listen to the argument we have put forward and for include Northern Ireland in the Bill . it have make an enormous difference and we be extremely grateful . I just want to make sure that that be properly place on record . I agree with the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) and thank the Minister for reach this point . there have be considerable effort and collaboration across the House and across party . the hon . Gentleman mention most particularly the First Minister , the Deputy First Minister , the Justice Minister for Northern Ireland and , indeed , all Northern Ireland mps , who be all agreeable to the aspiration of the instruction to the Committee . it be right that Northern Ireland be include in a UK - wide system , and the outcome should benefit our constituent who have be most deeply affect by the Horizon scandal . question put and agree to . I beg to move , that it be an instruction to the Committee on the Bill that it have leave to make provision relate to Scotland . at the outset , let I say that if I cry this afternoon , it be not because I be upset ; it be because I be angry and feel get at by other party in this place , which be determined not to bring Scotland into the Bill . this morning , Robert Thomson , Chris Dawson and Keith Macaldowie — three sub - postmaster — travel from Scotland to be here to listen to the reason that Scotland should not be include in the Bill . unfortunately , there be two urgent question , a statement and a train break - down , so they have have to go back and could not be here to watch the people in this House hold the fate of their exoneration in their hand . there be huge legal misgiving about and potential constitutional implication to the Bill , as legal authority across the United Kingdom have say . however , to use the word of the Minister of State , Department for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) : " we recognise that this be an exceptional step , but these be exceptional circumstance . " — [ Official Report , 10 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 302 . ] postmaster across the United Kingdom want this exoneration Bill to succeed , as do those of we on the SNP Benches . it must succeed ; we need to get the exoneration through this place in order that convict sub - postmaster across the United Kingdom can claim compensation and redress for what they have suffer . I have before I the witness statement from Robert Thomson , who , during his court case , have to sit down with his two young son to tell they of the real possibility that he would have to go to prison . how awful be that ? how awful it be for all the other sub - postmaster who have have to go through the very same experience ? my hon . friend talk about go to prison . my constituent lose her liberty , her good name , her house , her marriage , her family — her whole existence — because of this situation . she have have to move to my constituency — a life on her own . the Government be deny my constituent the justice she deserve . do my hon . friend agree that that be utterly shameful ? " utterly shameful " do not even begin to describe it . right up until quite recently , the Government say that they would include Scotland in the Bill , but they have decide not to do so for spurious reason . today , I have be talk to sub - postmaster , and I have invite scottish mps to come and speak . the main reason some scottish mp , whether they be Liberal Democrats or Conservative Ministers , do not want to include Scotland be that the First Minister say that he do not want to see criminal exonerate when they be guilty . no one want that — [ interruption . ] I have hear the Minister himself say that previously in this House . I admire the passion with which my hon . friend be speak on behalf of sub - postmaster . do she agree that part of the sense of insult upon injury be that there be no proper explanation as to why Scotland can not be include , so it look like petty partisanship ? and I have to say , Madam Deputy Speaker , that that be bear out by the chuntering , sniggering and laughter go on behind I as my hon . friend speak . my hon . friend be right : I be passionate about this . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on post office , I have deliberately work on this issue , across party , for year — I have work with everyone . indeed , when I write to the Prime Minister at one point , I have signature from every party , include from a Member of Sinn F é in , a party that do not attend the House . I have also hear it say today that the Lord Advocate do not want this . well , at no point have the Lord Advocate take a view on propose legislation either in Westminster or in Holyrood . the Lord Advocate be not responsible for bring case of miscarriage of justice before the court of appeal in Scotland . I have work with the hon . Lady in her role as chair of the APPG , and I commend she for her work over many year . the point about the Lord Advocate be surely that the route to justice must go through the Scottish Parliament , because the route to prosecution go through the Scottish Parliament . that be where the route of accountability lie . [ interruption . ] there be some talk about chuntere early , but it seem to go in more than one way . I refer the hon . Lady to the comment of the Lord Advocate in the Scottish Parliament on 16 January . if the Lord Advocate really want the Bill to proceed , she could say so in term herself . [ interruption . ] chunter on , boy . I do not think that be an edify intervention . will my hon . friend take an edifying intervention ? yes . be my hon . friend as surprised as I that the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , a former prosecutor , do not understand that prosecution do not go through the Scottish Parliament ? the prosecution service in Scotland be completely independent of Parliament . that be a fundamental aspect of our constitution . be she as shocked as I that the right hon . Gentleman do not understand that , and do she agree that the fact that he miss such a fundamental point rather undermine the force of his argument ? I thank my hon . and learn Friend for make that point . the body responsible for bring miscarriage of justice before the court of appeal in Scotland be the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission , which be not under the spell of the Lord Advocate . that argument be spurious to say the least . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . be she aware of the evidence give by Professor James Chalmers of the University of Glasgow to the Justice Committee a couple of week ago ? he be ask this very question , and he say that in his view , it be well that the legislation go through this place with legislative consent motion in the Scottish Parliament , because it be tie directly to the UK compensation scheme for this area . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . yes , I be very aware that the regius professor of law at the University of Glasgow make that very point to the Justice Committee . there have be widespread disquiet ; I think the Chair of that Committee , the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , would agree that no one in the legal profession really want this Bill . it be break all precedent , but for a really good reason . postmaster have suffer . Robert Thomson , the postmaster who be go to be sit in the Gallery , be convict in 2006 while his mother be still alive . he be the man who have to talk to his son and tell they , " I might not be here tomorrow . " he do not go to prison , but he could not get a job that give he the income that he have when he be a postmaster . he have be in penury , his life have be turn upside down , and his child have suffer enormously . that be the case for so many sub - postmaster across the United Kingdom : they do nothing wrong , yet people be point at they in the street and whispering . another sub - postmaster who be go to be in the Gallery watch we all today have to move back to his hometown because , five year later , he hear people in the supermarket say , " there ' s the guy who steal from the Post Office . " this kind of thing never leave those victim — they will carry it to their die day . Robert Thomson ' s mother die before her son spend two year go through the scottish court to be exonerate . every time I have be in this place when any legal issue come up , I be tell that this Parliament be sovereign . well , prove it : put the provision of this Bill into Scotland - wide use as well . [ interruption . ] member can stand at the back , smile and snigger , but I mean it — it be absolutely disgraceful that you be say to scottish sub - postmaster who be convict that they can not get justice at the same time as their English , Welsh and Northern irish counterpart . this be a Westminster problem . Westminster must and should sort it out , and it be easily do . ask for a legislative consent motion , and you will get it . the Scottish Parliament will put a Bill through to exonerate these postmaster , but it can not do it — it can not mirror exactly what be do in this place — until this Bill have go through all of its stage . have regard to the evidence of Professor Chalmers , who of course be regius professor of criminal law at Glasgow University — that address this problem would be well do in this place — do my hon . friend agree that we often hear sanctimonious lecture from the UK Government about how Scotland ' s two government should work together to benefit Scotland ? this legislation deal with a problem make on the UK Government ' s watch ; be it not the perfect example of an issue on which Scotland ' s two government should act together , with the UK Government take the lead in the same way that they have do for Northern Ireland and the Scottish Government consent , so that we can get justice do swiftly for scottish postmaster and postmistress in the same way as it have be do for other people in this glorious Union that Tory Members be always tell we about ? yes . I be appalled , upset and disturb by the fact that the Scottish Government have be try to contact Westminster Ministers to get this Bill to cover Scotland as well , and there be no comeback and no correspondence — nobody bother . one afternoon , within a two - hour period , the Minister — who I greatly admire , as he know ; I have a very good working relationship with he — be able to phone the Northern Irish First Minister , Deputy First Minister and Justice Minister . I thank the hon . Lady for give way . I have meet the scottish justice Minister twice online ; the reason I meet the Northern Ireland Ministers physically be that they come here to Parliament to meet we . may I push back on something that the hon . Lady say a few moment ago ? she say that this Parliament be sovereign . absolutely , it be sovereign , but on these matter , her Parliament be also sovereign . [ interruption . ] clearly , as she say early in her remark , there be legal controversy on these matter — she have admit that herself . this Parliament be take the legal risk in that area , but be the hon . Lady aware of her Lord Advocate ' s position on this particular matter ? these be her actual word : " it be important to recognise that , in Scotland , there be an established route of appeal in circumstance such as this … and that due process must be follow . " — [ Scottish Parliament Official Report , 16 January 2024 ; c . 14 . ] do the hon . Lady not believe that in that situation , her Parliament should act to overturn these conviction ? I be quite anxious that we do not have too many long intervention so that , if hon . member want to catch my eye , there be plenty of time for debate . Madam Deputy Speaker , I hate to disagree with you — as you know , I do not do that — but there will be no more time for some member to speak on this Bill if it do not include Scotland . in his intervention , the Minister say that the Scottish Parliament be sovereign — well , there be a surprise . we on the SNP Benches all want Scotland to be sovereign , but it be the people who have sovereignty in Scotland , not the Parliament . we be dance on the head of pin , Madam Deputy Speaker , which be not my intention . it be very clear — so clear that it be transparent — that party politic be involve in all of this . six day ago , the Secretary of State for Business and Trade describe the Scottish Parliament as lazy , and ask why it do not put through its own legislation . believe I , it can and it will if it have to , but why should scottish postmaster wait long for justice ? on second reading in this place , I say that there be likely to be to - ing and fro - ing , and that it would probably be July before this Bill be pass . on behalf of my constituent who have be affect by this scandal , I thank my hon . friend for the astonishing amount of work she have do in this area . be it not the case that , while it would certainly create issue for the legal officer in Scotland if Scotland be include in this Westminster Bill , a Bill in the Scottish Parliament would create exactly the same issue for they ? the concern for legal officer on both side of the border be that they do not like it when parliamentarian overturn the decision of the court , but it have to be do this time , because some of the postmaster will not live to see their compensation if we do not get on with it soon . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . I hear the Minister chuntere from a sedentary position that Scottish Ministers should take responsibility for this . indicate assent . they will , but they do not cause the need for this Bill . this be a Westminster issue and should be sort out here . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be incense — people may have realise that . this be not fake anger : this be a real issue for those man who come down here today . they be representative of the 100 sub - postmaster and mistress in Scotland , and we have not even start to talk about the effect on their family and those who have die . two year it take Robert Thomson to go through court , during which time his mother die , and it be the same story right across all the postmaster who have lose family member , and postmaster have commit suicide . this have to be sort . I go back to my original point . scottish postmaster will be behind the curve when it come to apply for the due compensation they be entitle to if they be not exonerate at the same time as the rest of the postmaster in the UK . this be a piece of nonsense . get it do for Scotland . the Government have do it for Northern Ireland . get it do for Scotland . I thank the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) for her remark and her engagement . it have always be a pleasure to work with she both in the Chamber and in other area . yes , we have work cross - party , and I have be very keen to do that all the way through on these matter , but that do not of course mean we always agree . I be very grateful to have the opportunity to meet the hon . Lady early with the scottish postmaster she refer to . I be sorry that they have not be able to attend this debate . however , at that point I be able to explain to those postmaster why the Government oppose this motion , as our position remain unchanged that this Bill should not be amend to include Scotland . I just want to ask the Minister : what do the scottish postmaster say to you — order . the hon . Lady know she must not refer directly to the Minister in that way , but do so through the Chair . I beg your pardon , Madam Deputy Speaker . what do the scottish sub - postmaster say to the Minister this afternoon ? be they pleased , be they happy and do they feel they be get justice through this action ? I listen to the postmaster very carefully , and of course they would prefer we to legislate in the way the hon . Lady describe . I set out very clearly the reason why we would not do so , and I think they hear the concern we raise about how we think we should proceed . Scotland have a historically separate legal jurisdiction , and the Lord Advocate and the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service have a unique role in prosecution in Scotland . we feel it be more appropriate for the Scottish Government to bring forward proposal to address prosecution on this matter in Scotland , and for those to be scrutinise by the Scottish Parliament . the First Minister have previously make public comment suggest that the UK Government ' s approach to the criterion in our legislation be too broad in relation to the conviction it would quash . he be report , in the National on 27 March , to have say that he want " to make sure that people who have genuinely commit a crime … do not then have access to … compensation . " we have be clear from the start that there be a real risk of that happen with our approach . have the Minister take the time to read the evidence take at the Justice Committee when Professor Chalmers say that the purpose of the Bill be to make sure conviction can be quash so that innocent people can be compensate ? the scandal originate with a faulty computer system and dubious investigatory procedure within a UK - wide institution . the scheme for compensation be to be UK - wide , so the pave legislation should be UK - wide , too . that be the opinion of the regius professor of criminal law at the University of Glasgow . have the Minister give that any thought , and can he tell I why it be wrong ? I thank the hon . and learn Member for her point , and I hear the point she raise early . it be very clear that all that be require for someone to access the compensation be the overturning of a conviction , and that can be do by mean choose by the Scottish Parliament or the mean that have be choose by the UK Parliament . there will be identical access to the compensation scheme : it make no difference by whatever mechanism those conviction be overturn . as I say early , the Lord Advocate have say very clearly that " it be important to recognise that in Scotland , there be an established route of appeal in circumstance such as this … and that due process must be follow . " — [ Scottish Parliament Official Report , 16 January 2024 ; c . 14 . ] she be of course entitle to that view . these be difficult political choice , which we have take in define the cohort criterion , and it be right that responsible Ministers remain accountable for those decision . the buck stop here , and it must also stop with the Scottish Government . I be confuse at the inconsistency here , so perhaps the Minister could help we . the Government be put through a Criminal Justice Bill that impact on Scotland , which have require the Scottish Parliament to pass a legislative consent motion for that Bill . so if it be good enough for the Criminal Justice Bill go through this place , why be it not good enough for this Bill to go through this place ? as I say early , Scottish Ministers have the responsibility and the mean to be able to form this legislation . we think it be important that they take responsibility for their decision in this area , give the nature of these issue . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress , if I may . I note that the First Minister state on Thursday 18 April that the Scottish Government be prepared to introduce legislation to the Scottish Parliament to overturn conviction — I understand from the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw that that legislation have actually be draft — and I believe it be possible and necessary for the Scottish Government to do so swiftly . our position on Scotland ' s inclusion in the Bill be very clear . the Government make a statement on 22 February to that effect , and I have write to the Scottish Government on this point . indeed , the First Minister ' s comment , together with the propose draft amendment to the UK Bill that the Scottish Government have publish , suggest that they should be in a position to do so . the UK Government remain committed to support the Scottish Government to progress their own approach to their legislation . I have meet Scottish Government Ministers multiple time since this Bill be introduce , and official at the Department for Business and Trade and the Ministry of Justice hold weekly meeting with official in the Scottish Government to discuss these issue . in conclusion , I remain of the view that the Scottish Government should introduce their own legislation to quash conviction in their jurisdiction . as such , the Government oppose this motion . I call the shadow Minister . the Horizon scandal be one of the most egregious miscarriage of justice in british history , and it have rob sub - postmaster of their life , their liberty and their livelihood . we welcome the Government ' s inclusion of Northern Ireland in the territorial scope of this Bill follow our representation , include on Second Reading . we agree that sub - postmaster in Scotland who have be victim of this devastating scandal need urgent exoneration and compensation as much as case in England , Wales and Northern Ireland . I want to commend the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) for her work in tirelessly campaign for victim across the United Kingdom , especially in Scotland , and her work in the APPG . however , the case of Scotland ' s inclusion provide a unique set of issue . unlike in Northern Ireland , there have not be unite support for Scotland ' s inclusion in the Bill . both the scottish judiciary and a number of msp have publicly oppose this course of action . do the hon . Lady agree with I that many people in England , Wales and Northern Ireland have vociferously oppose the Bill , but actually understand , as people do in Scotland , that it be necessary and that it be a pragmatic solution to a situation that have be go on for far too long ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention , but the reality be that this be a very unusual Bill , and there be serious issue , which we will go on to debate , about the separation of power between the legislature and the judiciary . in a context where , as I have say , there be disagreement between the judiciary and the legislature in Scotland , we believe it be not appropriate for the United Kingdom Parliament to overrule the scottish judiciary . it should be for Holyrood to make that call and pass a mirror Bill . therefore , we intend to abstain on this motion to include Scotland . I thank the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) for organise the briefing for we today . I attend it ; I think there be only one sub - postmaster and one solicitor present at the time , but it be useful to hear from they . I pay tribute , as I have do before , to she for the work that she have do . I suppose it be a consequence of the motion before the House that we have emphasise its procedural aspect more heavily than the outcome , but the House today need to focus on the good possible outcome for sub - postmaster . if there have be insistence on the Northern Ireland Assembly draw up legislation , that would have require a 12 - week minimum statutory consultation period , and that would have produce a bad outcome for sub - postmaster in Northern Ireland . for that reason , I think that the direction in which the Minister move be absolutely sensible . I be afraid that I do not take the same view on the position in Scotland . include Scotland in the Bill would leave unresolved issue , and the Bill would therefore leave scottish postmaster in a poor position than those in the rest of the country . rise — will the hon . and learn Lady let I explain why I take that view ? on 16 January , the Lord Advocate make the follow observation , and I think that she be quite right : " the vast majority of the case that may be affect by the issue be case in which the accuse plead guilty to the offence . often , those plea be tender under legal representation . although it be impossible to comment on every case , prosecutor do not mark case to proceed in the absence of corroboration — they simply do not do that . defence solicitor do not advise client to plead guilty in the absence of corroboration . in case that proceed to trial , the sheriff do not convict in the absence of corroboration . as a result , it be reasonable to infer that , in case that result in a conviction — whether by guilty plea or conviction after trial — other evidence be available that be capable of support the finding of guilt … as I have explain , not every Horizon case will involve a miscarriage of justice . in some case , there be sufficient evidence to support a criminal conviction . " — [ Scottish Parliament Official Report , 16 January 2024 ; c . 22 - 27 ] that be the view and analysis of the Lord Advocate . essentially , what she be say — I have always believe that this be right — be that because of the way that the law of evidence and procedure operate in Scotland , and in particular because of the need for corroboration , qualitative safeguard that bring well outcome be available to people who be before the scottish court . the presence of corroboration be an important part of scot law , and the Lord Advocate be right to highlight that . as she have raise these issue , I believe that it be well for legislation to be make in the Scottish Parliament , where the equivalent to this stage would take place in a committee , and not in the Chamber , as be the case here ; again , that be preferable . do the right hon . Gentleman not appreciate that the concern that the Lord Advocate have express be similar to those express by lawyer from across these island about this legislation ? ultimately , it be Parliament ' s decision whether to exonerate . have he read the evidence give to the Criminal Justice Committee , and do he disagree with Professor Chalmers , who say that the purpose of the Bill be to make sure that conviction can be quash , so that innocent people can be compensate quickly ; that the scandal originate with a faulty computer system and dubious investigate procedure in a UK - wide institution ; and that the scheme for compensation be uk - wide , so the pave legislation should be UK wide ? that be not my opinion ; it be the opinion of one of Scotland ' s most pre - eminent criminal lawyer , the regius professor at Glasgow . can the right hon . Gentleman tell I why he be wrong ? the hon . and learn Lady have say herself that this be a matter of opinion . I put great confidence in the opinion of Professor Chalmers , but I come to a different conclusion , because the route to conviction lie through civil servant employ by the Scottish Government — [ interruption . ] as the hon . and learn Lady remind we , almost three decade ago , I be one of they , so I understand perfectly how the system work , and I also understand that if I ever get it wrong — incredible though that suggestion may seem — the accountability for my mistake would be through the Lord Advocate . I note that nobody have challenge the very important point that because the scottish legislation have to mirror UK legislation , it can not be pass until this Bill have have Royal Assent . the right hon . Gentleman have experience of the system ; in his experience , once the Scottish Parliament can start consider legislation , what would be the minimum delay before Scotland catch up ? secondly , do he agree that it would be outrageous for anyone to try to shut down the Scottish Parliament in the meantime , to build in further unnecessary delay ? I be intrigue to know what that final question about shut down the Scottish Parliament be about , but it be open to the Scottish Parliament to deal with such matter through an emergency procedure . that would be sensible , and it would bring sub - postmaster across the whole United Kingdom to exactly the same place at the end of the day . that can be do in a matter of day , as I be sure the hon . Gentleman be aware . we have hear from other that the legislation be draft and ready to go , so as a matter of politic , what be it that the Scottish National party do not want to admit ? as far as I be concern , and as far as the SNP be concern , politic do not come into this . it be about get justice for scottish sub - postmaster and postmaster across the rest of the United Kingdom at the same time . I want to make it clear that intervention need to be question to the person make the speech . do the right hon . Gentleman not agree ? the hon . Lady have get it ! the hon . Lady know that I agree with she a lot more than either of we would ever admit , but on this matter , there be clearly a difference of opinion . the decision on whether the route to exoneration should be through the Scottish Parliament or through this place be a political choice . I sense that the right hon . Gentleman be reach his peroration , and as we be both Scots lawyer , I wonder if he will join I in correct the Labour party spokesperson , the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Bow ( Rushanara Ali ) . she say repeatedly that the scottish judiciary do not want this legislation . the right hon . Gentleman will know that the scottish judiciary , like the english judiciary , would never comment on the desirability of legislation . do he agree that the hon . Lady be get mix up with the Lord Advocate ? perhaps she should have a chance to correct the record later , because it be very important that the House do not give the impression that the scottish judiciary have be criticise Parliament when they have not . I say gently to the hon . and learn Lady that the scottish judiciary would never comment publicly because , in my experience , they have way of make their view know . but she be right to point out that on this occasion , the Opposition spokesperson confuse the office of the Lord Advocate with the judiciary . I would say to the hon . and learn Lady , however , that that in itself demonstrate to I the need for this matter to be deal with where the expertise lie , which be the Scottish Parliament . I find myself in the unusual position of support an SNP motion . it be probably the first time ; I suspect it will be the last . the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) have show her dedication to the people whom she represent . I have sit in Committee with she , and I have listen to she in debate , and I know how passionately she feel about this matter . she be not , in my view , just make a political point ; she honestly believe that postmaster and postmistress in Scotland who have be wrong by the Post Office , which carelessly deal with her case , deserve the same justice as those in Northern Ireland , England and Wales . I appreciate the fact that the Minister listen to voice from Northern Ireland . since come into his position — this matter have go on for a long time — he have be dedicate to resolve the issue , and I praise he for that , but we have one last part of the jigsaw that need to be deal with . it could be deal with by include Scotland in the Bill , as Northern Ireland have be include . like other who have speak , I pay tribute to the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) for the work that she have do . we all feel for the postmaster throughout Scotland , but do the right hon . Gentleman accept that a lot of people in Scotland watch this be wonder why the SNP ' s argument be not with the Lord Advocate , the person responsible for this delay ? why be SNP Members bring it here ? why be their Government not take this up with the Lord Advocate ? I do not know about the relationship between the Lord Advocate and the Scottish National party , but I do know that a remedy be go through this House today that could dispense with whatever difference there might be in Scotland , and deal with an issue that all of we in this House be agree need to be deal with quickly . I have listen to the argument make by the Minister and other that due process need to be follow . indeed , I have listen to the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , who say , " you have to remember that the scottish system be different . the level of proof in Scotland be different . there be great information available . " the implication be that when the Scottish Parliament consider this , it might come to the conclusion that some of the conviction be safe , and some postmaster and postmistress would not be exonerate at all . we have not take that view for the rest of the United Kingdom . indeed , some judge have argue that not all the conviction be unsafe , but we have decide that give how the whole Horizon situation be deal with , it be fair that we take the view that the problem may affect some people who be rightly convict and do not start go through each case . I remember that an argument make by a number of Members here be , " why don ' t we do this case by case ? " the situation be different in Scotland ; the Lord Advocate ' s position be exactly that she do not want to risk one person who be rightly convict be exonerate . it be therefore impossible for Scotland to follow the same route as we at the moment . as be detail in the Scottish Parliament early this year , the Lord Advocate be against mass exoneration . until she change her position and the advice that she give to the Scottish Government , it be impossible for they to follow what we be do in the House of Commons through this Bill . I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman be not listen to I , but I make the point that although there may be case in other part of the United Kingdom that be in the same situation , give the exceptional circumstance , we be prepared to exonerate . if the Lord Advocate ' s position be as he say , fair enough , but Parliament be make this decision for people in England , Northern Ireland and Wales . as the Bill be available to we , we should apply it to people in Scotland as well . I be grateful to be give the chance to make possibly the only supportive intervention I will ever make on the right hon . Gentleman . do he not agree that if the possibility of a single guilty person walk free be really such a barrier , we would never have the requirement for guilt to be prove beyond reasonable doubt not only in Scotland , but in England , Wales and Northern Ireland ? in a judicial system , we accept that it be well for a guilty person to go free than for an innocent person to go to jail . I will move on because Madam Deputy Speaker be catch my eye . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , because I just want to make two more point . first , the Minister have say , " it can be do quickly through the Parliament in Scotland . " the Scottish Parliament can not start the process until the law have go through here . I think I can say this , although some SNP Members might not be able to : the situation in Scotland at the moment do not look good for get legislation through quickly for any reason , because of the uncertainty around the leadership , what will happen and what support there will be . there be a parallel with the situation we have in Northern Ireland . one of the argument we make be over special circumstance , with the Assembly just be set up again and the delay that might cause . the Minister ' s argument could mean further delay in get justice for postmaster and postmistress in Scotland . may I just point out that the legislation apparently have already be draft for Scotland ? there be no requirement for Scotland ' s legislation to mirror our legislation ; that would be up to the Scottish Parliament , and it be clear that be the case . will the right hon . Gentleman accept that it be not just the Lord Advocate who be against what we be do ? the First Minister himself say , as I say early , that people with safe conviction should not have access to compensation . we be clear that the route we be take raise that likelihood . it be therefore only right that the Scottish Parliament take this decision . that have be the Minister ' s position throughout the discussion we have early . I be still argue for include Scotland , on the basis of consistency , fairness , speed and the political signal we should be send to people in Scotland . no SNP Member will make this point , but I will . we have already hear in this debate that this be more of a political decision . the Scottish National party feel that it be be get at — sometimes it deserve to be get at — but my point be this : when there be a mechanism to avoid it , why create a sense of victimhood ? People feel they have be get at and have be treat differently when they could have be treat in the same way as the rest of the United Kingdom . I do not think there be any political merit in exclude Scotland from this legislation . for the people who have be wrong in the Horizon scandal , for the people who have have their reputation damage , and for the picture of this Parliament as a fair Parliament , deal with people right across the United Kingdom who have be affect by a United Kingdom problem , I believe this motion should be pass today and Scotland should be include along with Northern Ireland . I start by pay tribute to several people across this House from a number of different party . when I arrive here last year , I could tell they have already be work hard on this issue , include my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) and the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) . there be consensus across the House that this huge injustice must be right . the question , as we have hear from a number of people , be how that be do in Scotland , and that be what I want to speak to briefly . I want to make two point . first , there be the question of speed , which we have hear about a number of time , but more importantly , there be the question of accountability . accountability be important . the Scottish Parliament have responsibility for justice in Scotland . Scotland have always have a separate legal system — since long before the Scottish Parliament be re - established — and , as we have hear , there be the question of the Lord Advocate ' s position , of how conviction be take forward not by the Post Office by but by the Crown , of the basis of evidence use — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? may I make a bit of progress ? I will then give way . there be also the question of the evidence use around corroboration . there be difference in the conviction . more importantly , the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw speak about one of the organisation involve — the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission , which she rightly say be the body that bring case for review in Scotland — but she do not mention the accountability aspect . the commission be create by an Act of the Scottish Parliament , be responsible to the Scottish Parliament and get its budget from the Scottish Government . there be a clear line of accountability between the Scottish Justice Secretary , the Scottish Government and the body responsible for review these conviction , so the accountability be clearly with the Scottish Parliament . may I put it to the hon . Gentleman that he be completely misunderstand what we be deal with ? we be deal with absolutely extraordinary legislation that be quash conviction as a gateway to compensation . give we a lecture of dubious accuracy on the line of accountability of the Crown Office in Scotland do not address that . this legislation be go over the head of the Crown Prosecution Service in England , just as it would go over the head of the Crown Office in Scotland . why can not he appreciate that point ? be it because he be play politic with the issue , like his Front - Bench colleague ? the suggestion of dubious lecture come from the Scottish National party be slightly misguided . I accept the point that the legislation go above normal legal precedent , but there be no reason why the Scottish Parliament could not invoke its emergency Bill procedure as it have do in the past , recognise that this be an extraordinary situation . the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) clearly do not understand how prosecution be do in the UK — sorry , in England . [ interruption . ] well , not in England . in England , the Post Office take the prosecution — they never go through the CPS . in Scotland , they do actually go through the Crown Office and the Advocate General . that be the difference . in term of where decision be take and the people who review case before they go to court , the case be not similar . that be absolutely right . the key point be that there be no question about the Post Office be hold to account for the institutional level of cover - up — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? may I just make the point and then I will give way ? the Post Office must be hold to account for that institutional cover - up , and it be the responsibility of this place and the inquiry to look into that , but the prosecution in Scotland be take forward by the Crown Office , which be responsible to the Scottish Parliament . that be the point that I be make about accountability . would the hon . Gentleman agree that accountable for all of this be Post Office Ltd , which be wholly own by the UK Government as its single shareholder , and that the UK Government take their eye off the ball , do not follow through , and take year to admit that there be a problem in the first place , and that if the UK Government cause this , they should fix it ? I be happy to agree with the hon . Lady about the responsibility of Post Office Ltd — I say that a few moment ago — but the prosecution base on that Post Office evidence be take forward by the Crown Office . there be responsibility to go around here . [ interruption . ] I will just answer the point , if that be okay . the evidence absolutely come from a flawed system , and Post Office Ltd must be hold to account . that do not deal with how prosecution in Scotland be take forward not just on evidence from Horizon but with corroboration from other source . I wonder whether the hon . member share my distaste at some of the thing say in the Chamber today , include that we can not bring this legislation forward in Parliament today because some of the postmaster in Scotland might indeed be guilty of theft and that we have to tread carefully . that bar have not be place on postmaster elsewhere in the UK . I would share that distaste , but those comment be reflect what the Lord Advocate have say . I have letter from the Lord Advocate in my hand that repeat that point a number of time . of course , the Lord Advocate sit around the Cabinet table with , I think — I will need to check — the current First Minister , Humza Yousaf . will the hon . member give way ? no . I have take a lot of intervention and be go to make a bit of progress . my second point be about timing . I do not accept the SNP ' s argument at all that the timing be an issue . I have hear the Minister make the point on a number of occasion that the compensation regime will be available to people who have be exonerate — by whatever mean that be — at the moment they be exonerated , so there be no question about that . on the point about the Scottish Parliament not be able to rush through legislation , it do not have the same process as the Northern Ireland Assembly — it do not have to go through a lengthy consultation process — so it could introduce a Bill tomorrow and have it pass before there be a vote on any of the confidence motion on Thursday . indeed , in 2020 , the Scottish Parliament pass an emergency Bill on covid — a considerably more difficult piece of legislation , stretch to 138 page — in just two day , and the idea that this Bill be somehow more complicated than that be ridiculous . there be no reason why the Scottish Parliament can not take responsibility and introduce a Bill now . indeed , if there be a question about not be able to finalise the Bill until the UK Bill have pass , the Scottish Parliament could take it all the way to the final amendment stage and amend it as necessary . but actually , again , the Minister have say that the Scottish Bill do not have to mirror directly the UK legislation for people to have access to the same compensation , which be what the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw and I both want to see . if the SNP be unwilling to act in the Scottish Parliament to introduce the Bill , my colleague Michael Marra MSP have already draft a Members ' Bill and will introduce that Bill this week . rise — if the SNP be unable to act , there will be no more dither and there will be no more delay , because Labour will act . for that reason , I will not be support the SNP motion . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . at no time have the Scottish Justice Secretary or the Scottish Parliament say that they will not pass legislation — order . the hon . member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) have finish his speech . if the hon . Lady would like to make a few comment , she can . she do not need to do so through a point of order . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have here the Justice Secretary in Scotland ' s remark . she say : " we remain crystal clear that the good way to achieve parity for the sub - postmaster across the UK who be convict on the basis of tainted evidence from the Post Office Horizon system be for the UK Government ' s Bill to be extend to Scotland , as it have be for Northern Ireland , just as we have be clear if this isn ' t the case we will bring forward a scottish bill that mirror the UK bill as quickly as possible . " question put . Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Gregory Campbell Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn George Galloway Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Stewart Hosie David Linden Carla Lockhart Caroline Lucas John McNally Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Ian Paisley Jnr Anum Qaisar Gavin Robinson Jim Shannon Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Philippa Whitford Sammy Wilson Peter Grant Gavin Newlands Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan djanogly Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling damian Green Andrew Griffith Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Aaron Bell the House divide : Ayes 42 , Noes 265 . question accordingly negative . Post Office ( Horizon System ) offence Bill consider in Committee . [ relevant document : Third Report of the Business and Trade Committee , Post Office and Horizon redress : instruction to deliver , HC 477 ; oral evidence take before the Justice Committee on 16 April 2024 , on Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Bill , HC 684 ; correspondence from the Chair of the Justice Committee to the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , on the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Bill , report to the House on 24 April 2024 ; correspondence between the Joint Committee on Human Rights and the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , on the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Bill , report to the House on 20 March and 24 April 2024 . ] [ Dame Rosie Winterton in the Chair ] I remind member that in Committee they should not address the Chair as Deputy Speaker . please use our name when address the Chair . Madam Chair , Chair , Madam Chairman or Mr Chairman be also acceptable . clause 1 - quashing of conviction for relevant offence I beg to move amendment 25 , page 1 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( za ) the conviction take place before the come into force of this Act , " . this amendment make it clear that clause 1 ( 1 ) will quash only conviction occur before the come into force of the Act . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : Amendment 1 , page 1 , line 9 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . government amendment 27 to 28 . clause 1 stand part . government amendment 29 to 33 . clause 2 stand part . government amendment 34 . clause 3 stand part . government amendment 35 to 41 . amendment 3 , in clause 4 , page 3 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) notification under subsection ( 4 ) must include a write summary of — ( a ) the compensation scheme available to a relevant person follow a quash conviction under section 1 ( 1 ) ; ( b ) the relevant head of loss under which a relevant person may claim compensation ; and ( c ) a tariff of compensation available relate to each of the head of loss mention in paragraph ( b ) . " amendment 4 , page 3 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) notification under subsection ( 4 ) must include a write commitment from the Secretary of State that — ( a ) the period of time between a full and valid claim for compensation and an offer of compensation will not exceed four week ; and ( b ) if the offer be not make within the four week period mention in paragraph ( a ) , a fixed penalty amount will be add to the ultimate compensation sum for each day by which the four week period be exceed . " Amendment 5 , page 3 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) notification under subsection ( 4 ) must include a write commitment from the Secretary of State to use reasonable endeavour to ensure that the period of time between a full and valid claim for compensation and an offer of compensation will not exceed four week . " government amendment 42 to 44 . clause 4 stand part . government amendment 45 and 46 . amendment 6 , in clause 5 , page 4 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) notification under subsection ( 3 ) must include a write summary of — ( a ) the compensation scheme available to a relevant person follow a direction to delete a caution under section 5 ( 1 ) ; ( b ) the relevant head of loss under which a relevant person may claim compensation ; and ( c ) a tariff of compensation available relate to each of the head of loss mention in paragraph ( b ) . " amendment 7 , page 4 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) notification under subsection ( 3 ) must include a write commitment from the Secretary of State that — ( a ) the period of time between a full and valid claim for compensation and an offer of compensation will not exceed four week ; and ( b ) if the offer be not make within the four week period mention in paragraph ( a ) , a fixed penalty amount will be add to the ultimate compensation sum for each day by which the four week period be exceed . " Amendment 8 , page 4 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) notification under subsection ( 3 ) must include a write commitment from the Secretary of State to use reasonable endeavour to ensure that the period of time between a full and valid claim for compensation and an offer of compensation will not exceed four week . " Government amendment 47 . clause 5 and 6 stand part . government amendment 48 to 51 . clause 7 stand part . government amendment 52 and 53 . amendment 70 , page 5 , line 39 , after " as " insert " Pathway , " . this amendment would provide additional clarity by ensure that the application call Pathway , which be roll out as a pilot version of Horizon , be explicitly reference as a Horizon system for the purpose of the Bill . government amendment 54 and 55 . clause 8 stand part . government amendment 56 . amendment 71 , page 6 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) this Act expire at the end of the period of 2 year begin with the day on which it be pass . " clause 9 and 10 stand part . government new clause 2 and 3 . new clause 1 — provision relate to Northern Ireland — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must consult the First Minister and deputy First Minister about make provision for quash any conviction in Northern Ireland for an equivalent " relevant offence " ( see section 2 ) allege to have be commit in Northern Ireland . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may make regulation to apply the provision of this Act , with any necessary modification to take account of the law and legal system in Northern Ireland , to secure the quashing of any conviction in Northern Ireland for an equivalent " relevant offence " ( see section 2 ) . ( 3 ) unless the First Minister and deputy First Minister act jointly advise to the contrary , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a draft of regulation to be make under subsection ( 2 ) no later than one week after the day on which this Act be pass . ( 4 ) regulation under this section be to be make by statutory instrument and may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before , and approve by resolution of , each House of Parliament . ( 5 ) subject to subsection ( 4 ) of this section , section 7 of this Act apply to other regulation make under this section . " this skeleton clause would require comparable provision to be make to quash conviction in Northern Ireland on the same basis as in England and Wales . new clause 6 — statement on quash conviction relate to Capture software — " the Secretary of State must , no later than 30 day after the day on which this Act be pass , make a write statement to Parliament outline action the Government intend to take to secure the quashing of conviction of person carry on a Post Office business while use the Capture software from 1992 onwards . " government amendment 23 and 24 . it be a pleasure to serve with you in the Chair , Dame Rosie . give the nature of this debate , in move the Government amendment , I will also use my speech to discuss the other amendment that have be table . first , I will address the Government amendment in the name of the Secretary of State relate to Northern Ireland : 23 and 24 , 26 to 44 , and 46 to 56 , as well as new clause 1 to 3 . I be grateful to the House for agree to the Government ' s instruction motion to enable debate on these important amendment . the Government have listen carefully to representation across the House regard the extension of the Bill to Northern Ireland . we recognise the unique challenge face by the Northern Ireland Executive in bring forward legislation to quash conviction to a similar timeframe as the rest of the UK . I just want to put on record , in Committee , the Democratic Unionist party ' s sincere and personal appreciation of the Minister for how he have engage with we , the pragmatic way he have approach these issue , and the can - do attitude he have extend to Northern Ireland . we have meet on a number of occasion . he have receive the thorough representation of my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) and colleague across the House , not least Ministers in the Northern Ireland Executive . we be indebted to he . we recognise that this be a huge step forward for the sub - postmaster in Northern Ireland who feel there would not be light at the end of the tunnel . he have extend the Bill very purposefully for all those affect in Northern Ireland , and we thank he for it . I be very grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his kind word . it be a pleasure to work with he and his colleague from Northern Ireland . we be always sympathetic to his argument and be delighted to have be able to move forward as we have . follow on from my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , it be fair to say that a week ago or even a month ago , the 23 sub - postmaster and sub - postmistress in Northern Ireland have little hope . today , they have hope and that be due to the Minister ' s endeavour on their behalf , push this issue and the Government ' s acceptance . on behalf of the 23 , we would like to say a big thank you to the Minister and the Government . I be very grateful . the hon . Gentleman be right to address the point about the 23 sub - postmaster . they be why we be here and why we be keen to act in this way . we recognise that there be specific circumstance in Northern Ireland that would have delay the exoneration and compensation to those individual , and that be why we be act as we be today . it be always a pleasure to work with he , as I have on many different issue over the year . issue include the Executive ' s recent restoration and additional public consultation requirement , which the House debate on Second Reading . in decide to take this step , the Government recognise the extent of cross - community support for the extension of the Bill to Northern Ireland . for those reason , we have decide to put forward Government amendment which would extend the scope of the Bill to Northern Ireland . I be very grateful to have cross - party support from member represent Northern Ireland constituency in co - sign Government amendment , specifically the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) and for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , and the hon . member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) , for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) , for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) , for South Antrim ( Paul Girvan ) , for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) and for Belfast South ( Claire Hanna ) . the amendment , which have be draft in consultation with the Northern Ireland Executive , empower the Northern Ireland Department of Justice to implement the legislation in the same way as the Secretary of State will in England and Wales . the amendment would modify the criterion for the conviction which be overturn to ensure that the relevant conviction from Northern Ireland be capture within its scope . specifically , they would add those secure by the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland and refer to distinct Northern Ireland offence . additionally , this group of amendment would ensure that the relevant caution will be delete in Northern Ireland , as they will be in England and Wales . the amendment have the same intent as new clause 1 , table by the hon . member for North Antrim , so I hope he will be happy to withdraw it on that basis . on amendment 1 , in the name of the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , I thank he for his continued engagement on the Bill and on wide Horizon matter . it be vital that we stay true to our objective of bring justice to wrongly convict postmaster , but it be also important to keep in mind the constitutionally sensitive nature of the Bill . we should legislate in a way that respect the separation of power and the independence of the judiciary . this amendment would widen the scope of the Bill to include conviction that have be uphold by the Court of Appeal . it would automatically quash such conviction , thereby override decision take by the senior judiciary . these case be exclude from the Bill because the Government believe that it should tread very carefully where judge in the senior appellate court have consider a case on its merit . we do not consider it appropriate for Parliament to interfere with such decision . I be grateful to the Minister for give way on this point and , indeed , for the way he be approach it . the Chairman of the Justice Committee send he an excellent letter last week in which he underline that almost all the witness before his Committee agree that it be unfair for the Bill to take a restrictive approach , in the way the Minister have , while take a rather expansive approach elsewhere . I know the Minister have write back to the Chairman of the Justice Committee , but his letter do not touch on this point . I wonder whether he will take the opportunity to wrap that up for we . I thank the right hon . Gentleman and my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) for their work . we take these matter and the independence of the judiciary very seriously . where the Court of Appeal have uphold a conviction and declare it safe , we think that be a material concern . there will always be different opinion in these area , but we think we be strike the right balance between overturn conviction that we believe to be unsafe in the main and one that have be before a senior judge . I , too , pay tribute to the Minister for the extremely constructive way in which he have engage with everybody on this matter . my initial position be entirely supportive of the Government , but I must say that the evidence give to the Justice Committee cause I to think again . it be usually right to be very wary indeed about trespassing on decision make by the court . however , we have choose to do that because it be think desirable for the great good in respect of the bulk of conviction . the point that need to be emphasise be that we have perhaps not appreciate that , in case where conviction be uphold by the Court of Appeal , it apply a narrow test to the relevance of the Horizon evidence . in Hamilton and related case , it say that the test be whether the Horizon evidence be essential to the conviction . we do not apply that test as a result of a policy decision . that could lead to a bizarre situation whereby someone who do not get to the Court of Appeal because the Criminal Cases Review Commission do not refer the case would have their conviction quash , whereas someone who the commission think have an arguable case and who go to the Court of Appeal but who be reject on a narrow test than Parliament be now create would not benefit from have their conviction quash . that be the unfairness that we need to think a little more about , and it be the thrust of what the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) be get at . there will , of course , always be different legal opinion on these matter . as my hon . and learn Friend express , he have have two different opinion on what we should do in this regard , and I know that his view be base on further submission of evidence that he have receive . of course , we consider these matter very carefully . my right hon . and learn Friend the Justice Secretary be here and listen to my hon . and learn Friend ' s comment . we will always continue to reflect on this legislation to make sure that we be get to the right place , but I understand the point that he raise . there be certainly difference of opinion as to the appropriateness of the measure as a whole , with Dr Quirk be in a minority of three who take a different view , but there be not a difference of opinion on the factual point that the test apply by the Court of Appeal in Hamilton be different from that which be in statute . that be a matter of unanimity . I understand and accept that point , but a decision have to be take on whether to include these case . there be definitely a difference of legal opinion on that point , because I have have different representation make to I . we recognise that this approach may leave a small number of individual concern about the way forward for their case . in case where the Court of Appeal have uphold a conviction , the usual route of appeal remain available to they . those affect can apply to the Criminal Cases Review Commission , which can review their case . the Minister know that we on the advisory board have discuss this issue at length . give what have come out of the inquiry over the last few week , do he agree that there be evidence that may have a bearing on some of these case ? I accept why he do not want to include they in this Bill , but we need to look at some of these case to see whether there be ground for appeal . of course , and I be listen intently to the evidence before the inquiry . it be true to say there be some shocking revelation . as the right hon . Gentleman illustrate in his work with the advisory board , there be a maliciousness about some of the prosecution , which be of great concern , as be the flawed Horizon system . part of the reason why we be legislate as we be reflect that , but we will continue to look at the evidence that emerge . if that be the approach that the Minister be go to take , could he tell the House a bit more about how his Department will support individual who find themselves in this egregious position ? as my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) say , evidence will now have come to light that be not available to the Court of Appeal or , indeed , to court that may have refuse leave to appeal . those individual will be in a terrible state now . what can his Department do , and on what timetable , to support they through the process that he propose they take ? the right hon . Gentleman make the point himself : as more evidence emerge , it may be that the ccrc take a different view of case that be bring forward . People who have present their case can revisit they by make an application to the Criminal Cases Review Commission , which can make recommendation as it see fit . clearly , we be happy to provide any information that we possess , and the Post Office will do the same . as I say , the inquiry ' s revelation may bring information that would help in some case . the ccrc may refer case to the Court of Appeal if it consider that there be a real possibility that conviction would not be uphold . with the constitutional sensitivity in mind , I hope the right hon . Member will agree to withdraw his amendment . I turn now to amendment 3 and 6 , table in the name of the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill . these amendment would require the Secretary of State to include detail of available financial redress in notification to people who have have their conviction quash , or caution delete , by this Bill . the amendment come as part of a number of recommendation by the Business and Trade Committee , to which the Government have since provide our response . I can reassure the right hon . Gentleman and the whole Committee that we will include information about redress in the notification that we send to postmaster when their conviction be overturn . our aim be that the redress process will follow seamlessly from the process of overturn conviction — there be no need to legislate for this . those with caution may have already seek financial redress via the Horizon shortfall scheme or the group litigation order scheme . we will provide they with the necessary guidance to identify the appropriate route to claim financial redress , if they have not do so already . I be grateful to the Minister for clarify these point as we go along . he will know that many sub - postmaster have not apply for the full extent of their potential claim because they be unsure about the case law involve , and I understand that the Department be use some guidance in make judgment — for example , the Dyson judgment , which be not publicly available , for perfectly good reason . there be a bit of creativity go into how we solve this problem . the Post Office write to I last night to say that , on the Horizon scheme , it be record the head of loss and the average of claim that be be agree , which could be one of the way in which sub - postmaster be give a sense of what the tariff be . could the Minister say a bit more about how we absolutely guarantee in the notification that we maximise the chance of sub - postmaster claim the maximum possible amount that they should be entitle to ? we have try to design the scheme in conjunction with the legal firm that be advise most of the claimant on claim redress . we will continue to work with they , as we do with the advisory board , and there be different mechanism that we can use to make this process simple , more transparent and easy to navigate . clearly , case will differ , despite similarity , so if we go down the full assessment route , it be important that all claim be assess individually , which obviously take time . if there be mechanism that we can use — for example , the tariff that the right hon . Gentleman describe — to expedite the process , we would be happy to look at they . we will continue to work with the advisory board on that . the Government will provide more general guidance on the redress scheme in due course . I would be more than happy to consider any recommendation that the right hon . Gentleman or the Committee make ; we do not believe at this point that there be a need to legislate for that . I very much hope that he will feel able to withdraw his amendment . amendment 4 , 5 , 7 and 8 , also in the right hon . Gentleman ' s name , be worthy amendment , and I share the sentiment behind they . we all want postmaster to get redress as quickly as possible , but we do not believe that these amendment be the right way to ensure that . the scheme have already be expedite , base on our learning and experience over the last few week and month . in the group litigation order scheme run by the Department for Business and Trade , we have commit to make a first offer within 40 working day of receive a full claim in 90 % of case . I be delighted to tell the Committee that we be now meet that target . the figure have be slowly rise ; I hope that it will continue to do so . there will always be some claim , of course , that raise novel or difficult issue , and those will take long than 40 working day . we will try to resolve they as quickly as possible . we be explore what delivery target would be appropriate for the Horizon compensation redress scheme . as be announce to the House , the scheme will deliver redress to those who have their conviction quash by this Bill , and the Government will update the House in due course on the relevant target . our goal will be prompt redress , just as it be for the other Horizon redress scheme . the Department ' s response be not usually the problem . as of 26 April , in the GLO scheme , we have make 167 offer in response to 177 full claim receive , so we have just 10 claim in hand . the issue generally be the rate at which claim be come in . we receive just 24 between 1 April and 26 April . we do not blame the claimant ’ lawyer for that . these claim be complex and need to be prepare properly . however , we be work with claimant representative to find way of speed up claim preparation . the GLO scheme be pilot a fast - track approach , under which the level of forensic accounting analysis require be substantially reduce . so far , the pilot look to be work well , and we be look to build on it in the come week . we do not feel that we will speed up redress by legislate . we need to deliver change at a nitty - gritty level , and we be determined to do that . with that assurance , I hope that the right hon . Gentleman will withdraw the amendment . move on to Government amendment 25 and 45 , the Bill take effect by quash conviction upon Royal Assent . the amendment make it clear that the Bill will not affect any conviction secure after that date . that have always be the Government ' s intention . we table the amendment to put it beyond doubt that the Bill do not apply to any future conviction . we must keep in mind the constitutionally sensitive nature of the Bill , and I hope that the amendment reassure the Committee about the exceptional nature of the legislation and the careful balance that we seek to achieve . amendment 71 , in the name of my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , would introduce a sunset clause to the Bill . we thank he for his amendment , and for all the work that he and the Justice Committee have do in consider the Bill and the issue that it raise . I would like to reassure he that the Government share his concern that the Bill should not be see as a precedent for Parliament act outside its usual constitutional role . however , this amendment be not necessary to achieve that aim . the key action of this Bill — the quashing of the conviction for relevant offence in scope — take place once , and once only : on the day when the Bill come into force . an expiry date be inherent in clause 1 of the Bill . in effect , it expire as soon as it come into force . to put that beyond doubt , the Government have table amendment 25 and 45 , which make it clear that the Bill will not affect any conviction secure after Royal Assent . however , my hon . and learn Friend ' s amendment 71 would also sunset the other part of the Bill , include those set out the process for identify quash conviction , those about notify individual that their conviction have be quash and , crucially , those about amend criminal record . if the amendment be accept , it would place a time limit on a postmaster ' s ability to come forward and identify their conviction as be in scope of the Bill , and to have their record amend . we could then be in a situation where in , say , three year ' time , an individual have have their conviction quash as a matter of law , but still have a criminal record . that would not give the victim of this scandal the justice that they deserve . we be clear , and there have be agreement across the House , that this exceptional legislation do not set a precedent . I have hope that my hon . friend be go to speak to amendment 70 as well . I just so pleased that we be go through the legislation today , because it be so important for so many people . I have write to he about my constituent who come to see I about her husband , who be a sub - postmaster . he have be write to by the Post Office , who have tell he about his exceptional bookkeeping . he then discover an unexplained loss in the amount . he call the auditor ; they come in , and they lock he out of his business . they search his home . they do not find any evidence , but they take away his business , his home , his livelihood and his reputation . we have hear that so many time . the only difference be that this happen in 1992 , under the precursor system to Horizon . Amendment 70 mention the Pathway system . my constituent be use something call Capture . fortunately the case be drop before it get to criminal court . I know that the Minister be look at whether there be more of these Capture case . when the legislation come before the other place , can we make sure that , if need , it can also quash any criminal conviction due to Capture , or other precursor system , as well as Horizon ? I will speak to amendment 70 . I write back to my right hon . friend about her case , and we be look at this . I be sure that the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) will have something to say about this issue . we have agree to instigate an independent review of that software . there be some fundamental difference . for example , it be not networked , so no remote access be possible , whereas that be a major feature of the issue with Horizon . I be happy to continue to engage with my right hon . friend on the issue , and I congratulate she on the way she have deal with it on behalf of her constituent . my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ' s amendment 71 would also sunset other part of the Bill . this would not give victim of the scandal the justice that they deserve . we be clear — there have be agreement across this House on this — that this exceptional legislation do not set a precedent , and I hope , especially with the reassurance provide by Government amendment 25 and 45 , that he will withdraw amendment 71 . I understand where the Minister be come from , and of course he have provide a deal of reassurance , but I want to test this a little . be we really assume that it will be necessary to leave open - end people ' s ability to come forward to have their conviction quash ? after all , if they can not reasonably be trace , there be provision for the Secretary of State to notify an appropriate person . for example , if we can not find the person — or their next of kin , if they be dead — there be a catch - all provision about notify an appropriate person . why could that not include the criminal record body ? would they not be notify anyway ? I just wonder why we have to leave the provision open - end to that extent . there will come a point when the provision have be exhaust . also , I be interested in how my hon . friend envisage a process work through which people can get a document that show that their conviction be quash — for example , if they need a visa or work permit , or have to undergo Disclosure and Barring Service check . as I say , the legislation expire on the day that the provision be bring into effect . my hon . and learn Friend be talk about the ongoing marking of the record of people who may come forward at a future date . we do not know what that date would be . I be happy to have a conversation with he about what the cut - off would be , but the effect of this legislation , in term of quash conviction , expire on the day it receive Royal Assent . I understand that , and I can see my hon . friend ' s point , hence the two amendment . my point be that he be pray in aid , as another reason for not have a sunset clause , the provision for notify people about apply to have their conviction quash . what be the mechanism to make sure that do not hang around indefinitely ? we will eventually want to bring thing to a conclusion — not only get conviction quash , but , quite separately , pay out the compensation fund . one day , all the compensation that can be claim will have be claim . what do we do then ? how do we wrap up the process ? that be what it come down to . as I say , I be happy to have a continue conversation with my hon . and learn Friend on that point . I feel that it would be a serious injustice if we set , say , a three year cut - off period and somebody come along a day later . those be the challenge that we have to meet . in a way , this be the core of the debate about where the four corner of the Bill should stretch to . the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) make a very good point : at some point , there should be a sunset on such unprecedented legislation . at the moment , there be no limit to its expansiveness in term of time , but the Minister have set a limit on its expansiveness in term of the individual involve , because he be rule out those who have go through the Court of Appeal . the Bill would benefit from further discussion , perhaps in the other place , about precisely where the four corner should be pin down . I would welcome that discussion , and I will follow it closely in the other place . the controversial element of this unprecedented , exceptional legislation be the overturning of the conviction , because we be interfere with the court by legislate in this way . the conviction expire on day one . all that happen far on from that be the marking of the record , which be not the controversial part . the controversial part be the interference with the court . again , I be happy to have a continue conversation with the right hon . Gentleman . new clause 7 , in the name of the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , would require the establishment of an independent intermediary body to administer financial redress to individual whose conviction be quash by the Bill . I also acknowledge the Business and Trade Committee ' s recommendation on a similar point . I assure the Committee that we be build independence into the process of make financial redress . final decision will , if necessary , be make by an independent panel comprise a King ' s counsel , an accountant and a retail expert . the panel will have a case manager , who will ensure that case be settle fairly , swiftly and in a non - adversarial manner . I have be clear throughout my work that we should put the victim of the scandal back in the position that they would have be in , and that we should move as quickly as possible . we feel that it would take month to set up an independent intermediary , and that it would add additional step to the process and risk create unnecessary bureaucracy . if my new clause have be select for debate , I would probably not seek to press it . I be not in a position to do anything more , but I thank the Minister for his assurance on independence . as the new clause be not select , we probably should not be discuss it . my apology , Dame Rosie . I will move on with pleasure . penultimately , I turn to new clause 6 . I thank the right hon . member for North Durham for all his work seek justice for the former sub - postmaster and , indeed , on the Horizon compensation advisory board . my official have be work closely with he , as have I , and he will be aware that we have set in train the process of appoint an independent forensic investigator to look into the Capture software , now that the Post Office have address concern about it . obviously , this relate to my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) , who be no long in her place . this follow on from the useful meeting that the right hon . member for North Durham and I have with a sub - postmaster and his wife who want to talk to I about his experience . my official have speak to other affected sub - postmaster , too . new clause 6 would require the Secretary of State to make a statement within 30 day of Royal Assent . as the Committee know , we aim to complete the Bill ' s passage very quickly , so a statement may be due quite soon . in practice , we feel it would be too soon , and time be need to identify and appoint the right person for this role , and for the investigator to complete their work and offer an independent conclusion . however , I be happy to promise two thing . first , once the investigator have report , I will certainly make a statement to the House . secondly , as the work progress , I will continue to engage fully with the right hon . Gentleman and his advisory board colleague . I hope this will encourage he not to press new clause 6 . finally , on amendment 70 , I be happy to reassure the right hon . Gentleman that the current scope of the Bill include the Pathway system , which be a Horizon pilot . the condition in clause 2 that determine which conviction will be overturn by the Bill be draft with this in mind . Condition A in clause 2 ( 2 ) specify the date between which an alleged offence must have be commit . the date be deliberately align with the roll - out of Pathway , which we understand from the Post Office to have begin on 23 September 1996 . condition e in clause 2 ( 6 ) provide that the Horizon system must have be in use at the post office concern . clause 8 define the Horizon system as any version other than the current one , HNG - A . it follow that , as a pilot of an early version of Horizon , Pathway be cover , hence we be clear that the Bill already cater for Pathway and change to the drafting be not necessary . I hope the right hon . Gentleman be therefore content not to press amendment 70 . clause 2 ( 2 ) mention 23 September 1996 . be the Minister say that any ICL Pathway system instal in post office , even prior to that date , will be capture by the Bill ? certainly , if we regard it as a pilot system of Horizon , that would be the case , as draft . so be the date irrelevant ? I have speak to one person whose prosecution might have be 1996 , but there be evidence that the Pathway system be in place before that date in 1996 . that be not what we understand from the Post Office , but I be happy to continue our discussion , as I always do , to make sure that every relevant person affect by Horizon or its pilot system be cover . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , I remind the Committee that this debate have to finish at 9 o ' clock . I know some of the point be very detailed , but I be conscious that I have the four member who be stand and the shadow Minister to get in . colleague should bear that in mind , because I can not impose a time limit . it be about make sure that everyone have a chance to speak . thank you , Dame Rosie . it be a privilege to serve under your chairmanship . I will be very brief , because some of my point have be cover through intervention . there have be good progress since the Bill be publish , which be testament to the Minister ' s leadership and his official ' support . as my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) say , the more that we have hear in the inquiry and through the medium since the Bill ' s publication , the more horrified and more determined we have become to hold individual , include the former chief executive of the Post Office , to account . it be pretty clear to many of we that the evidence she give to the Select Committee on 3 February 2015 and 24 June 2020 have be flatly contradict by the Channel 4 revelation that be publish on 27 March . I hope the Select Committee will be able to bring option for the House to consider as soon as possible . I wish to touch on three point quickly : the speed of redress , the stress of redress , and the scope of this scheme . the point about speed be light up by a single fact : the total budget for compensation be about £ 1 . 2 billion , but as of last Wednesday £ 196 million have be pay out . the implication of that be that 80 % of the compensation budget have not be pay out , after all this time , and all the heartbreak , trauma and scandal . this Bill will correct that imbalance substantially ; about £ 780 million of the budget be earmark for overturn conviction and this Bill allow we to move that money much fast . however , I remain concerned by what the Minister say today about the lack of any service level agreement for pay more out for the overturning conviction scheme . I would have expect a timetable for pay out that redress alongside this Bill today . we should be concern about that because the track record of make payment be not good . for example , if we look at the claim in the Horizon shortfall scheme submit by the original deadline in November 2020 — three and a half year ago — we see that 362 people have still not be pay , which be a sixth of applicant . if we look at the late claim , all 667 of they , we see that three quarter of they have not be pay . that be why the Select Committee look hard at how we could introduce some stricture to ensure that people be pay much fast . since then , my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , who have more experience in this House than pretty much anybody else , and indeed the Minister , raise serious and wise concern about the risk of put a legally bind deadline on the entire timetable . I have listen to those concern with care , which be why the way that my amendment on this have be draft take aim at one part of the process : the timeframe between a legitimate claim be submit and a first offer be make . the Minister ' s target be four week and we be get close to that now , but the reality be that a significant number of people be still not be pay within that timeframe . in some of the anonymise evidence the Minister provide to the Committee , we can see that 13 % of claimant in the GLO scheme be wait more than 40 day , with 2 % wait more than 100 day . if my amendment , as I have draft they , be not right and still run risk , I appeal to the other place to work hard on this to ensure that there be some legally bind stricture on the Department that mean that when , God forbid , the Minister be no long in his position , and we do not have his emollience and tenacity to rely on , his successor , whoever that may be , be bind by some kind of timeframe that ensure we be not still have this debate in year to come . to check the point , I contact a number of Select Committee witness this morning and find that there be some evidence that the speed of claim be improve . however , new issue be emerge ; I be tell that the time take to table a second offer when the first be reject be , frankly , not fast enough . there have be delay of up to three month or more in offer date through remediation hearing , so the process be still run too slow . if I have fail to persuade the Committee today , I appeal to the other place to help we to find some legal mechanism to ensure that there be stiff timetable to which the Department must adhere . my second point be about the stress that many people will face when put claim in . many people will not put claim in because legal assistance be not available before the claim be submit . many people , such as Christopher Head , be go out of their way to provide pro bono assistance to people in put claim together , but often it will take hour and hour of work to get a claim form in and many people simply will not be up for that , as they do not have the patience and they want to put this behind they . they certainly will not have the legal assistance available to they . that be why I hope the Department will consider publish some kind of tariff to help people ensure that they be claim for the full amount . the Minister may well say that there be a risk that people will then under - claim , but I check that with some of the lawyer this morning . their response be express in rather unparliamentary language , I be afraid , Dame Rosie , but the upshot be that such an objection be utter nonsense . I know that a lot of thought be go on in the Department about the way to do this , and I welcome the letter from the Post Office publishing average offer around the head of loss that have be set out . obviously , there will be banding that be more appropriate , and perhaps that be a way to publish these thing . obviously , there be a judgment the Department be rely on — the Dyson judgment — and the neutral evaluation , which be not publicly available , for good reason . however , my plea to the Minister be this : let we try to make much clear to claimant the full measure of redress that they should have available . if there be issue in people need extra help before the claim form be put in , please let we make sure that that help be available right at the beginning of the stage and not simply make available once the claim be in and a contest be under way about what should be pay . my final point be about scope , which we have already get into . there be a case for the Government to think again about the case that have already go to the Court of Appeal and be refuse or be not give leave to appeal . the good evidence for that be the Chair of the Justice Committee ' s excellent letter , in which he say : " the Bill be in effect treat case where the ccrc have credible evidence that Horizon datum might have be essential to the prosecution case less favourably than those that the ccrc consider have no credible evidence and therefore no basis upon which to refer to the Court of Appeal . " that be an extremely important point . I can see what the Minister be try to do . he be conjure here with very radical legal remedy , and that be not something we want to be expansive , but the risk we be run be that we leave an injustice that take year and year to work through . he have address some of the point the Chair of the Justice Committee make in his letter , but he have not address that one in writing . the objection and the goal of my amendment still stand . I will not press my amendment to a vote , because we be try to maximise the spirit of collegiate working . I accept that my amendment , particularly on the issue of speed , may not yet be at the state of perfection that they would satisfy everyone in the Committee , especially those member with more experience of work on these case than I have . however , the problem be there : people be not be pay fast enough ; they be not be supply with the right amount of information up front at the beginning of their claim ; and the scope of the Bill have be draw too narrowly . I look forward to work with the other place to try to get amendment in place that can improve the Bill and commend the consent of member from all party . I , too , hope that I can be brief , Dame Rosie , because we have cover a deal of the ground in the intervention . however , I wish to make a few short additional point to those that have already be ventilate . they be all contain in the transcript of the evidence of the Justice Committee ' s hear with four distinguished witness , three senior academic lawyer and , in Mr Rozenberg KC , arguably the most distinguished legal journalist of recent time . interestingly , the Government will perhaps take comfort from the thought that three of those distinguished witness be prepare , despite some of my misgiving , to say that this may be the least bad way of deal with the position . equally , however , all of they think that more thing need to be do with the Bill , which be what I ask the Minister to bear in mind . I be grateful to the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) for refer to the letter that I write to the Secretary of State on 24 April . it broadly encompass what I think be the key point , and I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to respond in writing , so that we can then publish that , in addition to the transcript of our evidence and the letter , for completeness of the record before the Bill go to the other House . I come to the other issue we flag up . a small but perhaps important one relate to the condition that must be meet before the conviction can potentially be quash . in particular , condition d in clause 2 ( 5 ) require the offence to have be commit " in connection with carry on , or work for the purpose of , the post office business " . the Government ' s explanatory note say that the provision of the Bill be " intend to be unambiguous " , but the debate we have in the Justice Committee suggest that there be potential ambiguity there . take , for example , the position of a post office worker who , during the course of the operation of the Horizon system , be convict of theft of stock for personal gain . be that in the scope of the Bill or not ? it be not in relation to a deficiency . in reality , that mean that the Secretary of State will have to be advise by official , perfectly properly , as to whether any individual case come within the scheme and therefore within the scope of the requirement of clause 4 . some judgment will have to be make , and it would be interesting to know on what basis . in particular , if the advice be that the conviction in an individual ' s case do not meet the statutory condition , and therefore the Secretary of State do not notify the convict court of the detail of the conviction and it be quash , will there be a mechanism for anyone affect to seek a reconsideration ? that be relevant because in some case those conviction may have be make on the basis of a guilty plea , perhaps in the magistrate court , and we do not necessarily know what the factual basis in the magistrate court of the guilty plea will be , because — unlike in the Crown court — that will not necessarily be record in the transcript . it be a small but technical point , but if we be go to have an expansive approach , perhaps that can be look at as the Bill progress . it do not alter the basic principle , but it might prevent an intended injustice arise . we have talk already about the position of conviction that have go to the Court of Appeal . on the basis of the evidence I hear , I have rather shift my ground . on principle , my initial response be to be as restrictive as possible on interfere with decision of the court , but once we have go to the extent that we have , as a matter of policy in this House , to adopt a more expansive approach , there be a potential risk of injustice for a comparatively small but important number of people whose case be consider by the court but be reject . the difference between the test in the scheme of the Bill and the test set out by the Court of Appeal in the case of Hamilton and other , and subsequent litigation , be really important . the Court of Appeal adopt a fairly classic and restrictive construction as to whether the Horizon evidence be essential to the conviction . as we have already say , this House have decide to take a more expansive approach in what it consider to be the broad public interest . if that be the case , some technical issue may arise from case go to the Court of Appeal that be not fully capture . the Chair of the Justice Committee be make a brilliant speech . the Minister characterise the decision and the conundrum here as a legal conundrum , but in a way it be in fact a political conundrum , because we be take a political decision about the where the scope of the scheme should start and stop . do the hon . and learn Gentleman have any insight into how long it might take those who be currently leave out of the scheme to secure justice if we do not amend the Bill to improve the scope ? the right hon . Gentleman be right about the policy choice that ultimately give rise to this issue . I pray in aid a quotation from Dr Hannah Quirk , who , of all the witness who give evidence to the Justice Committee , be the most sceptical , but she concede , in reference to people whose case have go to the Court of Appeal , " if we be take an expansive approach , it seem unfair to exclude they . the Court of Appeal might have be apply different criterion at that stage — the full extent of the scandal have not come to light . " that be an important point to bear in mind . the Court of Appeal would have be consider a mixture of evidence and law at that stage . Professor Chalmers , who have also be mention , say : " I obviously think it be unreasonable . I can certainly see the argument for case from Hamilton onwards , but if someone have appeal at the time when the problem with Horizon be not document , it seem to I to be entirely unfair to exclude they from the Act on that basis . " do the hon . and learn Gentleman agree that much have come out since those case be look at ? the public inquiry evidence about the way the Post Office investigate those case show that a text - book aggressive style be use in every case . that have an impact on some sub - postmaster plead guilty when they be not , and in the way in which some of they be harangue to the court . the right hon . Gentleman make a perfectly fair point . that be why I hope we can find a formula to revisit this issue as the Bill make progress . give the expansive policy decision the House have take , I do not think any great extra constitutional outrage be cause by include those who have be to the Court of Appeal within scope . it be rather as Keynes say : " when the fact change , I change my mind . what do you do , sir ? " as the right hon . Gentleman point out , the fact may well have change . there may be an alternative formulation to that set out in amendment 1 . it might be that a provision could be add to the Bill — I be think almost de bene esse at the moment — when it go to the other House to automatically mandate the Criminal Cases Review Commission to refer those case . at the moment , someone be require to go to the ccrc to seek the reopening of their case and apply to the Court of Appeal for leave to appeal out of time , if the case have be dismiss , and for it then to be reconsider . as the Lady Chief Justice say in evidence to the Justice Committee , I have no doubt that the Court of Appeal would move very swiftly if that be to occur — she be very clear on that point — but there have to be a trigger mechanism , which be absent at the moment . to come back to the point make by the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill , the current working process of the ccrc could not guarantee speed . some provision to mandate the ccrc to refer such case swiftly might be a means of achieve justice , without upset any more constitutional apple cart . perhaps that be the sort of discussion we could usefully have as the Bill go forward . a point link to that be the position of someone who have appeal . I notice that clause 3 set out the various circumstance in determine when a conviction have be consider by the Court of Appeal . clause 3 ( 4 ) ( a ) say one such circumstance be where " a single judge of the Court of Appeal have refuse to give leave to appeal against the conviction , " and leave to appeal have not be give by the Court of Appeal thereafter . People can appeal the single judge ' s leave to the full court , but that do not always happen . the point to make there be that , although in some case we do not know , a suspicion be strongly raise by witness to the Justice Committee that the single judge may have refuse leave simply on the ground that an appeal be out of time , because there be strict time limit on bring an appeal . if that have be the case , because it never get to the full court , the single judge and the full court would never have consider the merit ; leave would have be refuse purely on the basis that technically the case be out of time and there be no evidence put forward to justify at that stage why there should be a granting of leave to go beyond time . again , that might have be because the full fact of the scandal be not yet know . I would hope that that sort of anomaly could be address without too much difficulty . Dame Eleanor , I hope constructive thing can still be do on the margin to improve the Bill in relation to those matter and , as the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill rightly say , to get the shape of the Bill into proper form . I will not press my amendment , because we want to take thing forward constructively , but I hope that the Minister , in the exceptionally helpful spirit that he have adopt throughout , will continue to engage with those of we who , whatever our misgiving , realise that this be a route that the House have choose to take . we want to get it work to the good possible extent for those who have be affect by this horrendous scandal . that will lead to ramification in the prosecutorial process , the disclosure process and many other thing beyond . first , may I declare my interest as a member of the Horizon compensation advisory board and take some responsibility for why we be here today ? it be the advisory board that recommend this course of action , but this suggestion be down to the tenacity of the Minister and of the Law Officers , who he work with closely . when the idea be first mute at the advisory board , we think that , possibly , this would not be acceptable to the Government , but the persuasive power of the Minister , who I have come to admire , clearly work their magic within Government . none the less , this be the only path to take ; many individual would not have come forward without this approach , which the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) have describe as unique . may I also put it on the record that I be pleased that the Northern Ireland case have be include in the scope of the legislation ? although there be only a small number , it would have be wrong to have hold they up , through no fault of their own , because of the way that the consultation have take place . again , I congratulate all party in Northern Ireland on how they have come together to take this united position for the victim . let I refer to amendment 70 , and the ICL Pathway . although the Minister have give some assurance on this , let I explain why I table the amendment . ICL Pathway be introduce in 1996 , and the purpose of my amendment be to get some clarification on it . it be a stand - alone pilot , but the legislation refer to the " Horizon pilot " . I be quite convinced by the Minister ' s assurance that this will be in the scope of this legislation . that be important , because there be a number of individual , certainly in the north - east of England , who use the ICL pathway — it be not call the Horizon pilot at that stage — who be subsequently prosecute and will now be bring into the remit of the Bill . that be important , because it will mean that at least one individual I have meet , who originally think they would not be include in this legislation , will be . let I turn now to new clause 6 on the Capture case . the Minister will not be surprised that I have table this clause , because — give the anorak that I be in term of the Horizon scandal — I think we have potentially discover another scandal that predate Horizon . for the benefit of the Committee , I would like to provide a little bit of background . as the Minister say early , Capture be very different from Horizon ; it be develop by the Post Office itself from 1992 onwards , and it be not a linked or networked system like Horizon . it be sell as a quick way of " produce cash account quickly and accurately . " it be a computer - base system , but be not network , and it be quite clear that there be huge trouble , with it generate shortfall . with each upgrade of the software , new bug seem to have grow on the system . accord to the analysis that have be do on the upgrade , the Post Office identify at least 123 bug in the Capture software . once we have the publicity around the Horizon scandal , a lot of people come forward and talk about experience shortfall , include someone I go to visit in the north - east who describe exactly their experience with the Post Office . I initially think , " well , this be a Horizon case . " it involve a computer , and the aggressive way in the way the Post Office prosecute that individual . but it be only when I look at the date that I realise that they do not match up ; it could not be Horizon or ICL Pathway , because it be before then . since then , 35 individual — 36 from today , I think , because the right hon . member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) have raise another case — have come forward . we be talk about a long time ago , so a lot of these individual will have sadly pass away , but more people be come forward . I hear of someone this week who be now on the other side of the world ; they have move away from this country because they have be make bankrupt by the Post Office . the scandal be that the Post Office know about the problem with the system . I will come on to how I discover all this . I think the Minister must realise that I have more evidence than the actual Post Office have about this scheme . the Post Office be helpfully send out newsletter , say that there be bug in the system . one would have think that that would have set alarm bell ring in the Post Office to say that when there be a shortfall at a post office use Capture , people should not be prosecute . but it just carry on do it . in 1999 , it send out a letter to the north - east postmaster , claim that more than 100 have be prosecute for false accounting over the previous six year . again , no alarm bell seem to ring in the Post Office over why , suddenly , it have all these kleptomaniac work for it . it use the same aggressive approach in its investigation as those we have hear about at the Horizon public inquiry in term of audit and argue that the computer could not be wrong . I want to raise the individual case of June Tooby from Bishop Auckland in the north - east . in 1999 , she be suspend after a shortfall be discover in her account , and ultimately her contract be terminate . in court , she raise the possibility that the Capture system could be to blame for the shortfall in her sub - post office . Post Office lawyer argue that this could not be the case . one investigator say : " I have no reason to believe the computer be faulty . " again , this come to the point about judge , include in the Horizon case . I be not one to attack judge , but , in this case , the judge just accept that , almost pooh - poohe the case , say that the computer be always right . clearly , it be not . the Post Office also say that these fault just seem to be appear . sadly , June die in 2020 , but in many way she be still with we . she be a remarkable woman — I would have love to have meet she . she keep everything , include the full transcript not only of her trial but of her interview with the Post Office investigator , as well as a transcript of a tape telephone conversation that she have with the Post Office . more importantly , she keep the old floppy disk and all the operating manual to go with the Capture system . basically , what we have be a full example of a Capture case , which be something that the Post Office do not have . I pay tribute to June ' s husband , Ken Tooby , and Vivian , her niece , who have keep all of this , and very helpfully supply it to I . it come in large box , and it have take a long time to go through it all . I also pay tribute to my assistant , Ryan Jackson , who spend a long time read all of this and differentiate between what be and be not relevant . we have be work with Simon Recaldin from the Post Office , and we have pass copy on to the Department , which I think now have all the information . it be a full case , and I do not think that the Post Office have anything that compare with it . if we change the name on the document to Horizon , they would be the mirror image of a Horizon case , give the way in which the prosecution be carry out , dismiss the idea that the computer system could be wrong . I be pleased , have work with the Minister ' s official , and with the Minister himself , that he have agree to have an independent expert look at the disc and the evidence to clarify what happen . Steve Marston and Steve Lewis be two other individual who have come forward and be helpful — certainly Steve Marston have — in try to show that the floppy disc create problem . as I say , Capture be roll out nearly 30 year ago . many people will have pass away . it be important that we get justice for people . I suggest to the Minister that individual affect by Capture could be include in the Bill for exoneration . I accept why he can not do that , but if we get clarification — if we get independent expert advice that the computer system be wrong , and on the other evidence that I have produce — before the Bill pass through the other place , perhaps we could add Capture . the Minister be right that we need that independent verification . if it be not possible to add Capture , we will have to find some other mechanism to get justice for those individual . to be fair to the Minister , I think he be committed to look at that . there may well be other individual out there who have not yet come forward . the right hon . member for Chelmsford raise a case . I appeal to anybody out there who have such involvement with the Capture system to please come forward . if any right hon . and hon . member have such case , please feed they through to I . the Bill be unusual , as the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst say , but I think it have get the balance right . the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee know my reservation about put time limit on compensation . I have sit on the advisory board and see the difficulty of deal with some of the case . to the Minister ' s credit , offer fix - sum award have help to move some case on very quickly . some , however , be very difficult just by their nature . I do not think that anyone want they to go on for long than they should . some of the proposal that I think the Minister will announce , follow our board meeting last week , will help to speed up the process . I understand the nervousness around Court of Appeal case not be include in the Bill . we need to find a mechanism for deal with such case . give what have come out of the inquiry in the past few week , evidence be now in the public domain that possibly be not available to people when they bring their case forward . I accept that some part of the judiciary feel nervous about the approach . the Minister , the Justice Committee and the Business and Trade Committee need to sit down with Government Law officer to look at way in which we can at least look at some of those case . once the inquiry be complete , I think we will have a full picture of not only the investigatory side but the decision - make process . I have to say , have hear from senior people in the Post Office this past week , it seem to be that they can not remember , but that be no defence . it be important that we do not forget about such case . I will not press my amendment to a vote , but hopefully we can ensure that we get justice for not only those individual affect by Horizon but those affect by Capture , who fall outside the scope of the Bill at the moment . like other member , I will not speak for very long . in this instance , I actually mean that . I will speak to new clause 1 in my name and those of my colleague , and new clause 3 and 2 in the name of the Secretary of State and my colleague . the Minister will really have an opportunity to dine out on all the thank and gratitude . it be not give lightly . he have show something that the public constantly tell we be absent from this place : honour . he have be completely honourable with the people of Northern Ireland in this matter . whenever my right hon . friend the Members for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) and for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) raise the matter in the Chamber , they consistently ask for Northern Ireland to be include . from day one , the Minister be consistent in say that he would use his good endeavour to do that . sometimes we hear those word and it be only acknowledge in the breach , but he be absolutely clear that he be go to do it . there be up and down in the process , but every effort be make to ensure that , on a cross - party , cross - ministerial and cross - legal - jurisdiction basis , the consistent message come back to the Minister that this be the way to resolve the issue . accept the instruction this evening be a clear indication that that would happen . new clause 1 be now superfluous to requirement . it have be incorporate in the Government ' s own new clause . we welcome that and thank the Government for it . sub - postmaster across Northern Ireland will know that they be be treat exactly the same , with the same opportunity for fairness and to receive compensation , as their colleague in England and Wales . I hope it be not inappropriate to thank the Clerks ' office . I really want to draw attention to how , frankly , brilliant they be in help we to ensure that new clause be draft correctly . that make it easy for the Government ' s team to then accept what we have table . without the Clerks ' help , we would not have be as successful . it be only appropriate to acknowledge that . I know from speak to some of the victim that they be extremely grateful . they be wind up a bit from time to time by the medium , who tell they , " Northern Ireland be be exclude . you ' re not go to get it , " even after we have the commitment from the Minister . thankfully , tonight postmaster in Northern Ireland will see justice , and I thank he for that . I will therefore not press new clause 1 in my name . it can not be repeat often enough that the Horizon scandal remain one of the great miscarriage of justice our nation have experience . it be a scandal characterise by abuse of power , the mistreatment of innocent people and the wholesale failure of the entire system . we might blame it on a failure of it , but that be not the whole story . it be human failure on a grand scale — a failure to listen , and a failure to learn . it be a failure by the powerful to listen to sub - postmaster , and it have have a catastrophic cost in reputation , income and suffering on hard - work , innocent sub - postmaster and their loved one . sub - postmaster be people we rely on , at the heart of our community — the people who serve we , help we and hold our community together . without the tireless campaigning of people such as Alan Bates , the relentless effort of parliamentarian across the House , and the work of journalist and filmmaker , perhaps justice would have never be do . to they I pay tribute , and I extend my gratitude to the Minister for the work that he have do , from the Front Bench as well as from the Back Benches . we have hear horrific story of sub - postmaster who take their own life because of the suffering , and story of shame , pain and suffering for sub - postmaster , as well as their family and friend . labour support this unprecedented Bill , and we believe that it must pass into law with the necessary urgency , give the gravity of the situation . this have be say already , but it be crucial that this Bill should not set a precedent . it be an exception . we must understand the weight of this action , so that it be never even consider again . the legal solution in this Bill be a wholly exceptional and isolated case . these necessary action be be take to match a miscarriage of justice unprecedented in both scale and impact . the Bill must not set a precedent . we welcome the inclusion of Northern Ireland in the territorial scope of the Bill . I thank the Minister for listen to the representation make across the board about get the Northern Ireland element into the Bill . I know it will be a significant relief to the 27 sub - postmaster in Northern Ireland who be wrongly convict . the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , which he have speak to , seek to clarify the position on compensation and the expedite process for those exonerate . of course , for the victim of this scandal , the quashing of their conviction must be swiftly follow by further compensation . it would surely rub salt in the wound to quash a conviction after all these year and then to have delay , beyond a reasonable time , in the payment of compensation . give everything that have happen , it be right that the Minister should be in a position to set out explicitly in more detail how the Government will ensure that the compensation be deliver without further delay . my right hon . friend set out very clearly the reason behind the amendment he table ; he have agree to withdraw it , but what he say be important , and I very much hope that the Minister will heed the point he have make . there be of course complex case in the exoneration process , and we do not want deadline that may have unintended consequence , as my right hon . Friend acknowledge . however , we must act with urgency and speed to ensure that delay have no further part in this already - long process , which have cause so much suffering to victim . as the inquiry roll on , more and more horrifying story be emerge — more story of cover - up , obfuscation , dirty trick and a shameful culture at one of our old institution . today ' s legislation be seismic , but it be only part of the story . I know Ministers recognise the wide work that be need to ensure that sub - postmaster get the justice they deserve . I want to touch on those wide point that the Minister be think about and work on , and to put they on the record . for example , question about the requirement to sign non - disclosure agreement be expose in last week ' s hear in relation to Mr Griffiths , who tragically take his own life as a result of the pressure that the Horizon scandal put on he . the widow be encourage by the Post Office to sign an NDA . it be important that minister think about the implication of such issue . my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) set out the ongoing concern about Capture . I welcome the Minister ' s clarification on the Pathway scheme , but it be crucial that we ensure that action be take . I welcome his recent announcement on Capture , and we look forward to see progress as speedily as possible . this be outside the scope of the Bill , but it be helpful that the Government be focus on ensure that Fujitsu contribute to the compensation plan , give that public money in the order of £ 1 billion have be commit to it , and that Fujitsu have continue to receive Government contract worth £ 3 . 4 billion since 2019 . alongside this legislation , which be vital and which we support , it be critical that the Government work at pace to address the wide issue in the Post Office — its leadership and management , and their failure and abuse of power , which have be expose by this scandal — so that it be fit for purpose . we look forward to work to ensure that that happen . I will tackle the point that have be make as briefly as possible . the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , be right to say that £ 196 million have be pay out so far . this legislation will open the door to a lot more compensation , and it should go out rapidly to victim of prosecution . also , we expect that number to rise significantly with the introduction of the fix - sum award of £ 75 , 000 for Horizon shortfall scheme claimant . to be clear , around 70 % of claim submit in time have be settle , follow the final settlement for those individual , so we be make progress , but we be determined to make more . certainly , we be work with the Horizon compensation advisory board to ensure that that be the case . we be very happy to get into the weed and nitty - gritty of this ; we do that daily . the right hon . Gentleman say that , for whatever reason , I may not always be the Minister with this brief . I be very happy to help whoever take over the brief when that happen , should more help be need . yes , we be keen to accelerate the timescale right across the piece for the GLO scheme . as I say , we be hit our target of make 90 % of first offer within 40 day , but we will come forward with more service - level agreement for other scheme . I be very happy to work alongside the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill on that . I be grateful for that reassurance . do the Minister think that he will have the service - level agreement for the overturn conviction scheme on the table before the Bill be send for Royal Assent ? yes . the right hon . Gentleman ask about tariff . we be keen to do whatever we can to make the process quick , easy , clear and more transparent . we be take that away and look at it right now . of course , legal advice be available prior to the submission of a claim to the Horizon overturn conviction and compensation scheme , as it be in the GLO . it be only in the HSS , which be see as non - adversarial , that that do not apply prior to the offer be make , but legal advice be available after that point . we be obviously keen to continue discuss the case that be before the Court of Appeal . we will certainly respond in due course to the letter from the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) . I be grateful to the Minister for take a final intervention . it be maybe a non - adversarial process , but it be none the less an intimidate one that involve a complicated 16 - page form that take several hour to fill in . that be the equivalent of several thousand pound - worth of legal assistance . at the moment , such assistance be be provide pro bono by those with some experience , but I hope that the Minister will look at the matter again . I be happy to look at that . I should point out that a lot of the 16 - page form be legalese . only about four page of it be actually stuff that need to be fill in , but I understand the right hon . Gentleman ' s point , and the advisory board have make a recommendation for an independent appeal process for this scheme as well , which we be look at . I thank my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst for his work on the issue with the Justice Committee . I agree that what be before we be the least bad option , and I be glad that the legal fraternity be come to the same opinion . we will respond to his letter of 24 April , particularly on the Court of Appeal case . there be 13 case — seven before the Court of Appeal , and six that have be refuse leave to appeal — and I be very happy to look at they , and to continue our conversation . I understand the potential injustice around those case . we will also have a look at his point about subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) of clause 2 , to make sure that there be no unintended consequence from the legislation . I thank the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) for all his work on the advisory board . he have talk about my persuasive power ; I think the ITV series be far more persuasive than I be in move thing on and get we to where we be today , but certainly , follow his recommendation , which be make before the series air , we be look at way to expedite the overturning of conviction , and some of the Bill be base on those recommendation . as I say , we be look at the Capture software through the independent review . we have both meet with Mr and Mrs Marston , and their story , like many other , be compelling . the right hon . Gentleman raise the issue of the date range , which be deal with in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) of clause 2 , under which the offence have to have take place between 23 December 1996 and the later date . if an offence be commit at an early date , it would be exclude under the legislation . we need a conversation with the right hon . gentleman about that , but the independent review should inform our debate go forward . it be easy to include Horizon than other thing that be not directly connect to Horizon , as the court have find conviction unsafe on the basis of Horizon evidence . that be why we be able to legislate in this way . I thank the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) for his kind word . it be important to recognise that all of we be here to do the right thing , and it be a pleasure to have the opportunity to do so in this way , on a cross - party basis . we be very pleased to be able to agree with the DUP ' s wish that Northern Ireland be include in the legislation , particularly for the sake of the 23 postmaster in Northern Ireland who have suffer as a result of Post Office action . I also thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Bow ( Rushanara Ali ) , and her Front - Bench colleague for their support . we be very keen to make sure that Fujitsu contribute — it have agree to do so , and have a moral obligation to do so . my Secretary of State , who have be massively supportive of all my work on these issue , have meet Fujitsu ' s global chief executive officer , and we expect to provide more news to the House in due course . with that , I commend the Government amendment to the House . Amendment 25 agree to . amendment make : 27 , page 1 , line 9 , after " appeal " insert " in England and Wales . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 26 . amendment 26 , page 1 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) this Act also apply to a conviction in Northern Ireland for a relevant offence where — ( a ) the conviction take place before the come into force of this Act , ( b ) the offence be prosecute by the Police Service of Northern Ireland , the Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern Ireland or the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland , and ( c ) the conviction have not be consider by the Court of Appeal in Northern Ireland . " this amendment provide for conviction in Northern Ireland for relevant offence to be quash . amendment 28 , page 1 , line 12 , at end insert " in England and Wales or in Northern Ireland . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 26 . clause 1 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 - mean of " relevant offence " amendment make : 29 , page 2 , line 32 , at end insert " or section 17 of the Theft Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1969 ; " . this amendment , and amendment 30 to 33 , add the equivalent offence for Northern Ireland to the list in clause 2 ( 3 ) . amendment 30 , page 2 , line 35 , after " 1968 " insert " or section 15 or 15a of the Theft Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1969 " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 29 . amendment 31 , page 2 , line 37 , leave out " that Act " and insert " the Theft Act 1968 or section 19 ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) of the Theft Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1969 " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 29 . amendment 32 , page 2 , line 41 , at end insert " or section 21 of the Theft Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1969 ; " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 29 . amendment 33 , page 3 , line 1 , at end insert " or section 1 ( 1 ) of the Theft Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1969 . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) see the explanatory statement for amendment 29 . clause 2 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 3 - determine when a conviction have be consider by Court of Appeal Amendment make : 34 , page 3 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) in this section " the Court of Appeal " mean — ( a ) in the case of a conviction in England and Wales , the Court of Appeal in England and Wales ; ( b ) in the case of a conviction in Northern Ireland , the Court of Appeal in Northern Ireland . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment be consequential on the extension of the Bill to Northern Ireland . clause 3 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 4 - identification and notification of quash conviction Amendments make : 35 , page 3 , line 17 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment , and amendment 36 to 43 , provide for the function of the Secretary of State under clause 4 to be exercisable in Northern Ireland by the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland . Amendment 36 , page 3 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) in this section " the appropriate authority " mean — ( a ) in the case of conviction in England and Wales , the Secretary of State ; ( b ) in the case of conviction in Northern Ireland , the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland . " see the explanatory statement for amendment 35 . amendment 37 , page 3 , line 19 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 35 . amendment 38 , page 3 , line 20 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " authority " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 35 . amendment 39 , page 3 , line 25 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 35 . amendment 40 , page 3 , line 26 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " authority " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 35 . amendment 41 , page 3 , line 32 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " authority " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 35 . amendment 42 , page 3 , line 36 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 35 . amendment 43 , page 3 , line 37 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " authority " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 35 . amendment 44 , page 3 , line 37 , leave out " in England and Wales " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment be consequential on the extension of the Bill to Northern Ireland . clause 4 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 5 - deletion of caution for relevant offence Amendments make : 45 , page 4 , line 3 , after " have " insert " before the come into force of this Act " . this amendment make it clear that clause 5 apply only in relation to caution give before the come into force of the Act . Amendment 46 , page 4 , line 5 , before " criminal " insert " UK " . this amendment be consequential on amendment NC2 . Amendment 47 , page 4 , line 27 , before " criminal " insert " UK " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment NC2 . clause 5 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 6 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 7 - power to make further consequential provision Amendments make : 48 , page 5 , line 7 , leave out " an Act of Parliament pass " and insert " primary legislation pass or make " . this amendment be consequential on the extension of the Bill to Northern Ireland . Amendment 49 , page 5 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) but regulation under this section may not make any provision which be transfer Northern Ireland provision for the purpose of section ( Power of Department of Justice to make further consequential provision ) . " this amendment be consequential on amendment NC3 . Amendment 50 , page 5 , line 15 , leave out " an Act of Parliament " and insert " primary legislation " . this amendment be consequential on the extension of the Bill to Northern Ireland . Amendment 51 , page 5 , line 20 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) in this section " primary legislation " mean — ( a ) an Act of Parliament , or ( b ) Northern Ireland legislation . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment be consequential on the extension of the Bill to Northern Ireland . clause 7 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 8 - Interpretation Amendments make : 52 , page 5 , line 23 , at end insert — " ( a ) in the case of England and Wales — " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 53 . Amendment 53 , page 5 , line 30 , at end insert — " ( b ) in the case of Northern Ireland , any caution ( include a restorative caution ) give to a person in Northern Ireland in respect of an offence which , at the time the caution be give , the person have admit ; " . this amendment make provision about the meaning of " caution " in relation to Northern Ireland . amendment 54 , page 6 , line 9 , after " Wales " insert " or Northern Ireland " . this amendment be consequential on the extension of the Bill to Northern Ireland . Amendment 55 , page 6 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( c ) article 6 of the Criminal Justice ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1996 ( s . I . 1996 / 3160 ( N . I . 24 ) ) . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment be consequential on the extension of the Bill to Northern Ireland . clause 8 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 9 - extent and commencement Amendment make : 56 , page 6 , line 25 , leave out " only " and insert " and Northern Ireland " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment provide for the Bill to extend to Northern Ireland ( as well as to England and Wales ) . clause 9 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 10 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 2 - deletion of caution for relevant offence : Northern Ireland " ( 1 ) if it appear to the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland ( " the Department " ) that a person have before the come into force of this Act be caution in Northern Ireland for a relevant offence , the Department must direct the Chief Constable to delete detail , contain in relevant criminal record , of the caution . ( 2 ) as soon as be reasonably practicable after receive a direction under subsection ( 1 ) , the Chief Constable must delete the detail of the caution . ( 3 ) where the Department give a direction under subsection ( 1 ) in relation to a person ' s caution , the Department — ( a ) must take all reasonable step to notify the person , or , if the person be no long alive , the person ' s personal representative , that the direction have be give , or ( b ) if it be not reasonably practicable to give a notification under paragraph ( a ) , must take all reasonable step to — ( i ) identify some other person whom the Department consider it be appropriate to notify , and ( ii ) notify that person that the direction have be give . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section , the Department must , in particular , consider any representation make to it which claim that a person have be caution in Northern Ireland for a relevant offence , whether or not make by that person . ( 5 ) in this section — " the Chief Constable " mean the Chief Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland ; " the Northern Ireland criminal record database " mean the name database maintain by the Department for the purpose of recording conviction and caution ; " relevant criminal record " mean — ( a ) the Northern Ireland criminal record database , and ( b ) the UK criminal record database ; " the UK criminal record database " mean the name database hold by the Secretary of State for the use of constable . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause make provision for Northern Ireland correspond to that make by clause 5 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 3 - Power of Department of Justice to make further consequential provision " ( 1 ) the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland may by regulation make provision that — ( a ) be consequential on any provision make by this Act , and ( b ) be transfer Northern Ireland provision . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section " transfer Northern Ireland provision " mean provision that — ( a ) would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if it be contain in an Act of that Assembly , and ( b ) would not , if it be contain in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly , result in the Bill require the consent of the Secretary of State under section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 . ( 3 ) the power to make regulation under this section may , in particular , be exercise by amend or modify any provision make by or under primary legislation pass or make before , or in the same session of Parliament as , this Act . ( 4 ) regulation under this section — ( a ) may make different provision for different purpose ; ( b ) may contain supplementary , incidental , consequential , transitional or save provision . ( 5 ) the power to make regulation under this section be exercisable by statutory rule for the purpose of the Statutory Rules ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1979 ( s . I . 1979 / 1573 ( N . I . 12 ) ) . ( 6 ) regulation under this section that amend any provision of primary legislation may not be make unless a draft of the regulation have be lay before , and approve by a resolution of , the Northern Ireland Assembly . ( 7 ) any other regulation under this section be subject to negative resolution within the meaning give by section 41 ( 6 ) of the Interpretation Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1954 . ( 8 ) in this section " primary legislation " have the same meaning as in section 7 . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause confer power on the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland to make consequential provision as a result of the Bill . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . Title Amendments make : 23 , line 1 , after " Wales " insert " and Northern Ireland " . this amendment be consequential on the extension of the Bill to Northern Ireland . Amendment 24 , line 4 , after " Wales " insert " or Northern Ireland " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment be consequential on the extension of the Bill to Northern Ireland . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill , as amend , report . Bill , as amend in the Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . hon . member will need no reminder of the significance of this Bill . this legislation will , I hope , bring some much - need relief and closure to those catch up in one of the great miscarriage of justice in our nation ' s history . for the postmaster wrongfully accuse of , and convict and punish for , crime they never commit , this Bill mean hard - won exoneration , with their conviction wipe clean from the slate . a wrong be finally be put right but , as hon . member know , these postmaster will also receive the fair compensation they deserve through the Horizon conviction redress scheme ; this will be deliver by my Department rather than the Post Office . while the scale of the Government ' s response in this case be extraordinary , I be keen to remind hon . member that it do not set a precedent for our involvement in other judicial matter . I know this sentiment have be echo across this House during debate on the Bill . we have choose this path because the sheer extent of the Post Office ' s prosecutorial misconduct be an affront to justice in and of itself . it demand an exceptional response from Government . that be why I be glad to see this Bill be welcome on both side of the House on Second Reading . there be , I believe , a unanimous consensus that the provision of this legislation be need to bring justice to postmaster who have suffer too much for far too long . I be sorry to intervene on Third Reading . the Secretary of State be talk about justice for postmaster and mistress , which be completely right , but I want to ask one question about the policy aspect of this . I and other member have have postmaster who have write to we who have not be prosecute but find that the Horizon system be work badly and have to top up out of their own money when Horizon be report loss due to fault in the system . what be their redress route if they be now say , " I be hundred of pound out of pocket because I be have to make up the difference " ? we have devise the Horizon shortfall scheme to deal with those specific situation and if my hon . friend write to the Department we can look at some of the case bring to he as a constituency MP . I know the debate to date have centre around call to extend the Bill to Northern Ireland , and the Government have be supportive of they . so , in consultation with the Northern Ireland Executive , I be pleased to see the Government amendment in my name accept by the Committee of the whole House . as a result of the House ' s support , postmaster in Northern Ireland who suffer the same injustice as those in the rest of the UK will now also see their good name restore , with proper financial redress . as have be note during recent debate , the speed of that redress could not be more important . because of the Horizon scandal , people lose more than just their job ; they be pursue for non - existent loss , they rack up legal bill , and they suffer enormous financial and personal strain because of the Post Office ' s action . it be therefore entirely right that victim do not wait a second long than necessary to have that money pay back to they — with interest — to reflect what they have lose . I be determined that this legislation complement the ongoing work to hasten redress across the exist scheme . here we be already make good progress , with payment allow postmaster to finally move on with their life . I would like to take this opportunity to thank the opposition , especially the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) for his constructive and supportive approach to work with the Government on this Bill , and so many member across the House who have engage with we over and again to deliver the right result for postmaster . I would also like to thank the official of both my Department , Business and Trade , and the Ministry of Justice who have be work hard behind the scene for some time to ensure that postmaster affect by the Horizon scandal be support and compensate fairly . but most of all I thank my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) for his exemplary work as Post Office Minister and in take through this Bill and deal with the issue in a very sensitive manner and help to create confidence in the scheme . this Bill be a major step forward in that mission . after year of campaigning and fight to clear their name , postmaster be now receive the justice they deserve . no Bill can fully undo the damage that have be do or remove the scar the Horizon scandal have leave on its victim , but through this legislation we be do our good to right the wrong of the past so that every postmaster catch up in this scandal can begin to rebuild their life . I commend the Bill to the House . I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their remark . today ' s Bill , as have be acknowledge , provide an important step forward in bring justice for sub - postmaster . they have suffer more than we can imagine , as the Secretary of State have point out . that have include unjust prison sentence , bankruptcy , ostracisation from community , family breakdown and homelessness . tragically , the scandal have lead to some sub - postmaster take their own life . today by no means make amend for what they have be through and the suffer their family have endure , but it be an important positive step . we welcome , as I have say previously , the fact that today ' s Bill will bring particular relief for the 27 Northern Ireland case and ensure that they receive exoneration . the many story we have hear of those affect , whether in this debate or in previous statement and debate , be just snapshot of the scale of suffer that the Horizon scandal have cause . it have be a scandal define by the abuse of power , secrecy and delay . as other have acknowledge , we have see the inquiry reveal yet more challenge and yet more issue , whether those relate to the case refer to today , non - disclosure agreement , the speed with which action be take , the particular abuse that we have see or much else . while this Bill have a particular focus , it will not be enough . as I say early , I welcome the action the Minister be take to address the concern on Capture . I welcome the clarification he have make on Pathway and the assurance he have give to member on both side of the House on the speed of provide the necessary compensation and on ensure that this Bill remain a unique provision , give the unique and extraordinary situation that sub - postmaster have experience and the injustice they have face . we look forward to see progress on the action that will be take to deliver the compensation that sub - postmaster desperately need . we look forward to work with the Government to make sure that the Post Office be fit for purpose , because frankly what we have see from this scandal and what have be uncover over the period that the Post Office have preside over it and its implication have expose major failing that we urgently need to address . we must ensure that the institution be fit for purpose , that further scandal do not hit that institution and that more people do not suffer . what we have see do not inspire confidence , and action must be take . I look forward to work with Ministers to help achieve that . I be pleased to give this Bill my support and that of my party on Third Reading . it show what be possible when the House come together and work collegiately , as we have do . it must surely remain a concern to we all that it be necessary in the first place . I pay warm tribute to the Minister for how he have handle this matter , not just as a Minister but in his time before he come into office , as well as to the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) and the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) , although she be not in her place at the moment . I would say only that I hope that the Scottish Government can bring to the Scottish Parliament the legislation that have be prepare so that we can all come to the same place at the same time , because the important thing here — we have to come back to this time and again — be the outcome for the sub - postmaster themselves . for the Post Office as an institution , this be an important step in restore its trust and its standing in the community that we all represent . I leave the House with this final thought . there be a temptation to think that when the Bill pass and its provision be implement , somehow or other that be it — job do . I caution the House against that . we be here tonight because of a head of steam that be build up because of the nature of the Post Office as an institution , the standing of sub - postmaster in our community , the sheer number of case and the remarkable way in which the ITV programme catch the mood of the nation . what happen to sub - postmaster be different from what happen to people all the time only in one respect : the sheer scale of it . in my time as a Member of Parliament , I have come across so many example of people with good , reasonable case who be squeeze out of what they be entitle to because of the inequality of arm . public body have deep pocket — the taxpayer be behind they every step of the way — to pay for the good legal representation and to stonewall in case where people would otherwise have good justice . I will be back in Westminster Hall on Wednesday morning to deal with a case about the accountability of the Financial Conduct Authority , where it act in respect of claim make by constituent of mine who have be the victim of a Ponzi scheme only because it be eventually force into do so by people who , as with the Post Office , be brave enough to take their case to court . ultimately , they lose , but in the process of take their case to court , they put the FCA in a position where there be no alternative but to pay out to all the victim through the financial service compensation scheme . the brave 95 people who take the legal action in the first place be leave £ 2 million out of pocket . everybody get something because they be brave enough to stand up , but they be leave to pay at the end of it . that might be the law , Madam Deputy Speaker , but you will never persuade I that it be justice . like other who have speak , I indicate the Democratic Unionist party ' s full support for the Bill at Third Reading . the Secretary of State be kind enough to thank the Minister . as she be not present to hear all our tribute to he throughout the course of the evening , I want to repeat they for her benefit . the Minister have thoughtfully and doggedly work through the issue on the inclusion of Northern Ireland . we be incredibly grateful to he . he use to sidle up to I weekly and suggest something else that I need to do to allow he to advance the case for inclusion , and every time I satisfy what he have ask of I , he present another challenge , and then another . he request that I speak with people who be really uncontactable for politician because they be too impartial for such work . but my colleague and I genuinely appreciate the way in which he have engage with we . tribute be pay to the Northern Ireland Executive and the way in which they have engage in this issue , but as the party leader it would be remiss of I not to put on record my appreciation for the work of my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , who take an interest in the issue long before the restoration of the Northern Ireland Executive . he have recognise the deep injustice that have be at the heart of the Horizon scandal and doggedly pursue resolution and justice for those affect in Northern Ireland . our friend , the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , have always be a champion for Northern Ireland ' s inclusion in the legislation . we be grateful not just for his interest in we , but for his commitment to the issue over many year and the thoughtful way in which he have engage in it . it serve to prove the impact that back Benchers can have in the parliamentary process that there be no frailty to the pursuit that we have . though we may not have sufficiency of number to provide the opposition in and of ourselves , we have be able through effective relationship to ensure positive progress in the Bill . however , that can work only if there be reciprocation . for that , throughout the course of the last week and month , and long relationship on other issue , we be grateful . this be a historic , unique and very controversial Bill . it be another small step in the justice for sub - postmaster campaign , which have be go on for decade . I pay tribute to Alan Bates and all his campaigner . they say no to the people who be tell they to go away . they keep at it , and they be the hero in all this . I pay tribute to the fellow member of the advisory board , Professor Chris Hodges , Richard Moorhead and James Arbuthnot . we propose this solution for overturn conviction , but do we expect it to be accept ? no , we do not . that be down to the Minister ' s work . I also want to put on record my thank to the Attorney General and Justice Secretary , both of whom not only engage with the argument but see the logic of this controversial way of do it — the only way of do it . without their help , it could not have be do . let I put on record my thank to the Minister ' s long - suffer official . they have to put up with not just he but I and the other advisory board member . they work tremendously hard on this , as do the official in the Ministry of Justice . we be into civil service bash again this week , but I must say that without they , we could not have achieve what we have in this Bill . I hear what the Minister say on the issue around Capture . hopefully , give the constructive way in which he have approach the issue , we can get justice for those affect . finally , our thought should be with all those people who be no long with we , such as Tom Brown , my constituent who originally get I involve in this scandal . June Tooby ' s forensic cataloguing of the Capture case will hopefully lead to some justice for those victim , too . this be an important step forward . let we hope that it give family some comfort to know that their love one will be exonerate as part of this process . let I also put on record my thank to the Minister for his work on this issue . I first come across it when I witness the anger , frustration and despair of people who know that they have do no wrong , yet have their reputation sully , lose their business and face the suspicion of their friend and even their family . they feel that they be beat their head against a brick wall of bureaucracy — they be against people who have stand , and who be believe , regardless of the evidence that mount against the case that they be make . the Minister have do a great thing by give hope and exoneration to people , many of whom feel that they would never get justice . now they have find it . the Minister know about the scandal before he take his position , and he make it clear at the very start that he intend to see this through . he have use his position to do a good thing . it be important to recognise that this place have be the vehicle by which justice have be deliver . a committed Minister be determined to use his position to do the right thing for individual . when the issue of Northern Ireland be first raise with the Minister , there be a reluctance ; there be no doubt about it . when I put question to he on the Floor of the House . and in my conversation with he , there be always reason why legislation should be introduce in Northern Ireland . here be a good thing : the argument be listen to , over time . as my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) say , the Minister do not just roll over . he expect we to do something as well , and make the case — that be the job . I be thankful for the fact that he listen , and that Northern Ireland be include . I thank the Clerk for his advice . many of we be not really aware of all the parliamentary procedure , even though we have be here for I do not know how long . we do not always know the good of way of go about thing . the advice and the support that be give be very important in get this over the line . unfortunately , even though people will be exonerate as a result of this legislation , there be many who die with this shadow on they , and with the shame of what be do to they by people who , as the inquiry now show , be cynical , manipulative and calculate in how they pursue they through the court . this be not for debate today , but I hope that once the inquiry be over , there will be accountability for those who knowingly put sub - postmaster through this , quite apart from the embarrassment some have have during the inquiry , when they have forget matter , show arrogance , or claim that they be just do their job . as I say , some sub - postmaster die without their name ever be clear . we can do nothing about that , but I hope that their family will at least feel some reassurance as a result of this legislation . once the Bill pass into law , sub - postmaster will be exonerate from a legal point of view , but I hope that the compensation that they be due will be pay out quickly . the Minister outline some of the way he intend to ensure that compensation claim be deal with quickly ; I hope that they be . I hope that other Ministers learn from this experience . do not forget that even when the evidence be pile up , and the issue have be point out , and suddenly sub - postmaster and sub - mistress across the country be common thief , Ministers turn a blind eye , or accept the explanation give by their official . as I mention at the very start , the frustration that people feel when the state deny they justice , or tell they that they have do something that they have not , cause they to have no confidence at all in Government and its institution . we could go through a number of issue . I look at the evidence that be build up on the loan charge . I ask myself whether , in five year ' time , we will find the same kind of issue there , with programme put in place , and Ministers embarrassed and unable to explain why they do not take action when all the evidence be there . I hope minister take heed of this sorry tale , in which they believe people in power , rather than the victim of those in power . I be elect in 2010 , and be an MP of just a few month ' stand when my constituent Seema Misra approach I , say that she have just be sentence to jail . she be pregnant and her sentence come down on her son ' s 10th birthday . with the help of James Arbuthnot , now in the other place , within a few day I realise that there be other colleague who have similar case , and it all point to the Horizon system . I write to the Post Office Minister at the time and I be rebuff . there must have be other colleague who do the same thing . a Back Bencher of just a few month ' standing be able to see right to the heart of the problem with the help of the internet and a couple of fantastic colleague , yet a Minister of the Crown be not . now , Ministers in our system have surgery — order . this be not a second read speech . we be at the very end of the Bill and the hon . Gentleman should be make an intervention , but that be very much a speech . we all have sympathy with the point he be make , but this be not the time in the proceeding when such point be make . I believe that the right hon . member for East Antrim be just about to conclude the entire debate on the entire Bill . I be indeed , but the intervention show that Ministers need to listen . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) for give we great support for the case of Northern Ireland , and to other who persist in raise this issue . I know that a lot have be say about the tv programme , but even before it air there be a realisation , because of the persistence of Members , that something have to be do . I be glad it have be do , and I hope that this will be a great relief to many people who have live under the shadow and the cloud of the thing that happen to they over a number of year . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , I will put motion 4 to 6 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , company that the draft Accounting Standards ( Prescribed Bodies ) ( United States of America and Japan ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 21 February , be approve . Sea Fisheries that the draft Sea Fisheries ( International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 14 March , be approve . National Crime Agency that the draft National Crime Agency ( Directed Tasking ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . House of Commons Members ' Fund Motion make , and question propose , that the sum to be deduct from the salary of member of the House of Commons in pursuance of section 4 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the House of Commons Members ' Fund Act 2016 shall for the financial year 2024 - 25 be £ 2 . 20 per month . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) Madam Deputy Speaker , may I briefly speak as a member of the Members ' Fund ? would that be in order ? that be perfectly in order . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . as we can all see from the Order Paper , the increase be very moderate . the sum deduct from our salary on a monthly basis go towards the Members ' Fund , which be distribute on occasion to former member and their dependant who be in straiten time . it be a hugely important fund and be staff by amazing officer of the House , who also staff the parliamentary contributory pension fund . we be very grateful for their support and for the support of trustee . the only thing I would say — I hope I do not put myself in contest with other trustee — be that the sum take from our monthly salary be still very small . at some stage in the very near future , it should be incumbent on this House to look at a more generous monthly contribution from member . a figure of perhaps £ 10 would not be too onerous on member , but it would certainly help the Members ' fund to support many former colleague of all party who , through illness or just bad luck , find themselves struggle once they be no long in this place . the hon . Gentleman have speak for the whole House . question agree to . Speaker ' s Committee for the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority Motion make , and Question propose , that , in pursuance of paragraph 2A of Schedule 3 of the Parliamentary Standards Act 2009 , Ms Tina Fahm be appoint as a lay member of the Speaker ' s Committee for the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority for a period of five year from 6 May 2024 to 4 May 2029 . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) question agree to . Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry have spend the day deal with the injustice of the Post Office Horizon scandal , we move to the injustice of the infected blood scandal . I join a number of right hon . and hon . colleague in present a petition on behalf of constituent who be seek justice , and I pay tribute to my constituent Joyce Donnelly , the chair of the Scottish Infected Blood Forum , who be the first signatory on the petition . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Glasgow North , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ P002962 ] Petition - Recognition of Peter McLagan MP I rise to present a petition on behalf of the resident of Linlithgow and East Falkirk in relation to the recognition of Peter McLagan MP . I would like to pay tribute to local historian David Main , who alert I to the legacy of Peter McLagan and who have do some tremendous work on keep his memory alive . in case member do not know , Peter McLagan be Scotland ' s first ethnic minority MP . he be also the long - serve MP in Scotland during Queen Victoria ' s reign , serve from 1865 to 1893 . member might have notice the pioneer display in the Admission Order Office corridor , but they will not have see any reference to Peter McLagan , who have sadly be miss off the list . we have be try for some time to have that rectify . the petitioner therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to act to ensure the omission of Peter McLagan MP from ' the Pioneers ' display be rectify at the early opportunity . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , welcome that the temporary display " the Pioneers : the first asian and black MPs " have be move to form part of the permanent display that be locate in the Admissions Order Office Corridor ; acknowledge the permanent recognition of these groundbreake mp ; regret that permanently honour they have take so long ; and far regret that Scotland ' s first mixed - race MP , Peter McLagan , who serve the Constituency of Linlithgowshire from 1865 to 1893 and be the long serving Scottish Member during the reign of Queen Victoria , be not include in " the Pioneers " display . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to act to ensure the omission of Peter McLagan MP from " the Pioneers " display be rectify at the early opportunity . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002965 ] Post - 16 Education : isle of Scilly Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) I thank Mr Speaker for grant this debate on the cost of post - 16 education for family on the Isles of Scilly . I have yet to stand up in this Chamber unless it be to raise an issue that have be raise directly with I by a constituent , and today be no exception . I rise to raise an issue that have be raise by not just one but several constituent . they be all parent , and they meet I last month to set out their concern . the Isles of Scilly be unique in so many way . they be situate just off Land ' s end , and they be a beautiful part of the UK and a fantastic part of my constituency . I have often speak in this Chamber about the unique environment on the island , but the people of Scilly also face unique challenge — or almost unique . as I prepare for this debate , I find that there be in fact two local authority area in this country with no sixth - form provision . one be the Isles of Scilly ; the other be the City of London . so the situation be not unique ; the consequence , however , be . young people in the City of London can walk to a sixth form college or pay 85p for a bus ride ; the bus be rarely cancel because of stormy weather or high sea and , unlike the scillonian ferry , they run all year round . More to the point , those young people can go home to their family at the end of each school day . that option be not open to the family I meet on Scilly . they know that they have to send their young people to stay on the mainland to fulfil the statutory requirement but , as one of my constituent tell I , " the decision about where to go be base on accommodation , not educational preference " . the lucky one could stay with family or friend on the mainland — I should perhaps say " the lucky one " , if the council ' s unofficial survey be accurate — but everyone else have to choose between stay with a host family or in a boarding school . last year ' s ofsted report on Scilly ' s child ' s service state : " to access … post - 16 education child must live away from home on the mainland . this add the potential for social , emotional and mental health challenge and additional safeguarding risk for some child . " it be not surprising , but still shocking , that 20 % of 16 and 17 - year - old from scilly be not in education , employment or training , which be four time the national average and infinitely more than the City of London ' s 0 % . this be despite the fact that student from the Isles of scilly consistently outperform student on the mainland in GCSE attainment . the Council of the Isles of Scilly be responsible for the provision of compulsory education until the age of 18 and , like all local authority , be expect to meet the cost of delivery from its own budget . the council be support by post - 16 travel and accommodation grant administer by the Education and Skills Funding Agency . the funding be currently £ 6 , 365 per student , which can go towards travel to and from the mainland and accommodation while study . the actual cost be considerably more , and I be grateful to the parent of current student who have prepare very helpful figure that show just how much more they have to fork out for their child ' s education . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . do he feel it be immoral and wrong for a parent to have to pay for their child ' s education when sixth - form education be free across the rest of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? it be wrong that the parent and child of the Scilly Isles can not have the same advantage as we have elsewhere . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I will be cover that injustice and how equality and levelling up really should apply , but I be pleased to know that there be someone else in the Chamber who also take an interest in the Isles of Scilly . I appreciate that they be not everyone ' s area of interest or expertise , but they be beautiful , remote island . I be sure they be a holiday destination for many , but visitor do not always consider the challenge that people face . as I be say , the cheap option for sixth - former be stay with a host family , but even this cost more than the £ 6 , 300 grant , and it be increase . that be without factor in the cost of travel , with six return journey a year , include transport on the mainland , cost £ 1 , 750 for each student on average . this do not include contingency for overnight stay when travel be disrupt , despite the high risk of the weather scupper travel plan . and this weather disruption be not limit to the winter . everyone in the Chamber will appreciate the difficulty of find accommodation in a wonderful destination like Penzance at the peak of the tourist season . there be obvious safeguarding issue with young people stay on their own when their journey be disrupt . many parent be understandably reluctant to entrust their child to host family , who be currently unregulated . at an age when most young people be live with their parent , 16 and 17 - year - old from scilly be live in dig . they lack the structure and support they need , in the absence of family and friend . some host become like second family , but other parent have chilling story . one constituent tell I that their child become very ill while live in host family accommodation . nobody be aware , because nobody have pastoral oversight . nobody notice the student lose 1 ½ stone over a six - week half term , and he end up with one a - level , have start do five with top grade prediction . there be other case where vulnerability , loneliness , isolation and naivety have place student at risk that I can not , of course , divulge in such a debate . college such as Truro and Penwith College , our excellent further education college in west Cornwall , and the main post - 16 provider for Scilly , have concern . they see how often this lack of support be reflect in poor attendance and work at school , and it can lead to student fail to complete their study . accord to the informal survey I mention , less than two third of child attend post - 16 education complete their course successfully . although college take seriously the challenge face student who be require to leave Scilly to learn , their pastoral care be limit to their statutory role , which cover only the school day . outside that period , which may be only 18 hour during a typical school week , student be leave to their own device . they may not have access to the support and extracurricular activity , such as sport and social club , that young people take for grant in the rest of the country . for all those reason , homestay be become less popular with family on scilly ; nearly half of student do this just three year ago but now just over a quarter do . the other option available to family be boarding school , where these young people have supervision and support . there be a number of state boarding school in the south - west , but , as be hint at in the intervention , although the education be free , the board and lodging be not . accord to the parent ' figure , the shortfall can be as much as £ 13 , 000 , include travel cost , per child . again , that do not include contingency or incidental expense ; many student never see their sixth form until they arrive for the first time in September , as the cost of visit beforehand be not cover by the grant and be just not achievable . the cost of living be already high on scilly , because of freight cost , and salary be low than average , yet family on Scilly be force to pay for their 16 and 17 - year - old to have the same opportunity as anyone else . furthermore , when their child have finish their a - level and be think about high education , family be already saddle with debt and reluctant to take on more . I be aware that the Department for Education be already review the policy on Scilly post - 16 education , but it be my understanding that a robust equality impact assessment have not yet be undertake by Government . it be , however , clear that family on scilly do not have an equal access to post - 16 education . the Isles of Scilly Council , with which I have be work closely on this issue , have suggest a grant of £ 15 , 000 per student per year be require to ensure financial parity with those on the mainland and to meet the additional increase cost to enable the student to continue in their education or training . I would be grateful if the Minister could confirm that he will direct his official in the Education and Skills Funding Agency to take scilly ' s unique challenge into consideration when assess the size of the grant and to hasten a decision , as the next academic year be just four month away and decision about the next stage of a child ' s education be need to be make imminently . when I correspond with the Minister ' s predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) , he make the point that young people all over the country have option to study in diverse and widespread location , and it would not be " financially feasible " for local authority to fund all the cost this involve . but family on scilly do not have option : they have a straight choice between send their child to a potentially unsafe environment or rack up thousand of pound in debt . a number of parent tell I they be consider leave scilly purely so that it be financially feasible to educate their child as the law require . the one thing everyone on Scilly would like to say to this House be that when family leave , it become difficult to maintain the service and all the thing that be require to keep a community of about 2 , 200 people viable and go on a remote island setting such as Scilly . the cohort over the next few year fluctuate from 15 to 32 student , so I submit to the Minister that it be not financially infeasible for the Department for Education to look seriously at the figure of £ 15 , 000 that the council have identify . we know that money allocate for Scilly in the Government ' s levelling - up fund be not now go to be spend as intend ; this would be an ideal opportunity for the Government to show their commitment to these unique island and to their future as thriving community . although the subject of this debate be the cost of post - 16 education to family on Scilly , there be wide issue about how to ensure the welfare and wellbeing of Scilly ' s young people so they can fully and appropriately engage with their education . the council need the capacity to commission package of support for student on the mainland where it be necessary . that could be through bespoke package enable they to return to mainstream tuition after a period of absence ; or through the Future Foundations programme , which , as the Minister will know , empower student to aim high and achieve their potential . the council aim to work with the multi - academy trust , of which the Five Islands Academy be a member , to provide opportunity for student to engage in extra - curricular activity . it also want to work with voluntary organisation such as Action for Children and Young People Cornwall to improve the offer for post - 16 student outside the hour of formal education . as I have hint , there need to be some money set aside for contingency . these be not outlandish request . all the officer at the Council of the Isles of Scilly want be to enable student to remain safe in an unfamiliar environment ; to remain gainfully and safely occupy outside the time of formal education ; to have and to maintain good mental health and wellbeing ; and to thrive socially , emotionally and academically . these be not unique requirement — they be what we all want for our child and young people . there be no reason why parent on Scilly should not want the same . I look forward to the Minister ' s comment on how he plan to ensure that the family on scilly can have the same . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for St Ives ( Derek Thomas ) on secure this debate on the extremely important subject of education on the Isles of Scilly . while they be a beautiful place , I appreciate the argument he make that resident face a number of different issue and challenge because of the size , location and population of the isle . he be a passionate advocate for they in this House . my hon . friend clearly and eloquently set out one such challenge : there be no post - 16 education for young people on the isle . the people of the isle be extremely fortunate to have he bat for they in the House today and make that case so strongly . from what he have describe , many parent face difficult decision about the next step in their child ' s education . young people have to face the difficult situation of go to the mainland for education and training opportunity . as he say , that involve travel and live away from home at a relatively young age , which must be extremely daunting and create a number of challenge . he set out eloquently and with force the emotional and wellbeing issue that young people on the isle face . that set of issue be no doubt difficult for parent and young people , and , after listen to my hon . friend ' s strong argument , I sympathise with they . all young people in the isle , in common with those across England , have to continue in education and training until they be 18 . young people can choose to participate in full - time education , have a job or volunteer combine with part - time study , or can undertake work - base training , such as an apprenticeship . the Government provide funding for a range of education and training opportunity for young people . continue in education and training mean that young people be give the opportunity to develop skill and qualification that open door for they to future employment , help they to make the most of their potential and to earn more over the course of their lifetime . empower young people to gain the skill they need to climb that ladder of opportunity into successful career or further study be a top priority for we at the Department for Education , and across wide Government . it be to the immense credit of all the resident on the Isles of Scilly that they be determined to overcome all the unique and challenging barrier they face so that their child can continue into post - 16 education and training . at that point , they have many more diverse challenge than those on the mainland , include challenge access the benefit and opportunity that people on the mainland often enjoy . to support our commitment to ensure young people across England — wherever they live — get high - quality educational opportunity , we be boost 16 - to - 19 funding by an extra £ 1 . 6 billion in 2024 - 25 , compare to the financial year 2021 - 22 . we make a further investment of £ 185 million in 2023 - 24 and £ 285 million in 2024 - 25 . overall , in the academic year 2023 - 24 , nearly £ 7 billion be allocate to institution in programme funding for 16 - 19 education to help ensure that every young person have access to an excellent education . young learner in Cornwall , include learner from the isle , will benefit from that extra funding through receive a high - quality teaching and learn experience in high - quality facility . the Department provide a range of financial support for student who need it , include those from the Isles of Scilly , to enable they to participate in post - 16 education . that include free meal and bursary to help with the cost of education , whether that be travel , book , equipment or trip , plus support for childcare and residential cost where require . student can speak to their education institution about access those fund . we of course recognise , as be powerfully articulate just now , the unique situation of young people from the Isles of Scilly and understand that the normal provision of funding in 16 - to - 19 education do not fully fit with their circumstance on the isle . in addition to receive full funding for their learning , like other young learner across the country , for many year we have provide extra fund to help they meet the cost of travel to and from the mainland , and for accommodation on the mainland where they be stay . in the current year , as my hon . friend have say , the per student funding be increase by more than 11 % — that be now £ 6 , 365 . the number of student have grow , which mean that we have increase the total quantum of funding by more than 40 % this year compare with last year , but my hon . friend have make a powerful case that family on the island believe that the current level of support — £ 6 , 365 per student — be not sufficient and should be increase . as I say , the figure have increase by 11 % from last year , but I do understand the point my hon . friend make about the challenge that family face with increase cost , and particularly with the reduce availability of host family accommodation ; they feel that this funding do not cover the total cost of support for their child to travel for their post - 16 education . I know my hon . friend and his constituent feel extremely strongly about the issue , so we will consider carefully any request from the council to provide additional funding for the scheme as part of the spending review . my hon . friend have make that case eloquently and , as the Minister responsible , I will be watch the matter closely . I be very happy to meet he — and perhaps his council — to talk about the proposal in more detail at the appropriate time , because I understand the point he have make , and the pressure and challenge face by family in his community . my hon . Friend also raise the issue of student wellbee . he speak powerfully about the health and wellbeing of young people who be under 18 and live away from home , and about the impact on they . I appreciate that student from the Isles of Scilly and their parent need to make difficult choice about where they live when they study . we hear that some family decide to place young people with host family on the mainland , while some opt to take more expensive option such as state boarding school ; I agree with my hon . friend that that be not a situation that lot of parent want to see their family in , and I understand the concern he have raise . as a parent myself , I feel it very keenly when he make that argument . I know that the council publish a model accommodation agreement for student and their parent to ensure that the accommodation option be safe , include make sure that any adult within a host family that a child be place with undergo a Disclosure and Barring Service check . the college also provide general support for their student ' wellbee , include help with stress and anxiety , and advice and support on study and career . as we know , this situation be a unique one . it be important that student and family feel that the accommodation and travel arrangement be safe and secure , and help they to succeed in their post - 16 education . that be why we keep the scheme arrangement under review . my official be in regular contact with the local council about how it be work , but my hon . friend have make his point powerfully and well , and I be very happy to discuss the matter far . my hon . Friend also talk about post - 16 education and training opportunity . he be right to raise that point . the council estimate — I think he quote this number in his speech — that there be around 48 student age 16 to 19 who will take part in education or training this year . of course , a cohort of that size make it difficult at this stage to deliver face - to - face post - 16 education on the isle themselves , because of all the logistical challenge that it would create . to undertake face - to - face education , young learner have to travel to the mainland . there be a number of sixth - form college , sixth form and other option — I think he reference a couple in his speech — but the most popular be Truro and Penwith College and Cornwall College , which between they provide a range of post - 16 provision . those provider offer a wide variety of option , with the college work increasingly well together to avoid duplication of the offer to student from the Isles of Scilly , and to ensure that the wide variety of high - quality option be available to learner in the area , include those from the isle . it be of course not ideal that learner from the isle have to travel so far and live away from home , despite the support that be available , and all the help with cost that the college provide . my hon . Friend speak passionately about that , and about the collective challenge . this be not just a challenge about post - 16 education ; there be lot of different element of life for people on the isle , and this be just one challenge they face . that point be make very well . I assure my hon . friend that we be open to consider other approach , if parent and education institute have workable alternative — for example , if some course could be access via distance rather than face - to - face learning . I be very happy to have that conversation . my hon . friend have make a strong case . I know that he have raise the issue before , and that he be a strong advocate for reform and do more in this area . I thank he for bring this debate to the Floor of the House . he make some important point about post - 16 education for young people on the Isles of Scilly , and the difficulty that both they and their family face with the provision of this type of education and access to these opportunity . it be clear that student from the isle be in quite a unique situation in this regard — and no doubt a range of other . I appreciate the challenge they face . we will keep the scheme arrangement under review . my official and I be in regular contact with the council on the isle and will listen to any other suggestion or alternative that the council or my hon . friend wish to talk through . I pay tribute once more to the people of the Isles of Scilly . it be a huge credit to they that they be determined to overcome all the logistical challenge they face in try to access post - 16 education and training like many other people across the country . through my hon . friend ' s tireless campaigning , he be ensure that the issue be be hear at the top of Government , and I very much thank he for it . question put and agree to . House adjourn .