that be just the intervention that I need . there have also be the case of Jodey Whiting , David Wood and many , many other . our report recognise the significance of every death and harm experience by claimant , and the impact of these case on their love one . we know that 40 death and 13 serious harm of claimant be investigate by the Department in 2023 - 24 alone as part of its internal process review , but in common with the National Audit Office ' s 2020 report , we believe that the actual number be much high . we hear evidence that the process of access DWP support , and some DWP policy themselves , can create or exacerbate exist vulnerability . for example , sanction or the threat of sanction can lead to material deprivation , stress , and the deterioration of physical and mental health . in some case , the experience of engage with the system and the process have be so difficult and distressing that it have contribute to claimant decide to take their own life . some of the most serious case of harm — where a coroner ' s inquest have find that DWP contribute to a claimant ' s death — have result in prevention of future death report . since 2010 , DWP have be issue with 10 prevention of future death report relate specifically to the death of benefit claimant . the fact that the Equality and Human Rights Commission issue a section 23 notice on the DWP for potential discrimination against disabled people in 2022 , and the investigation that be subsequently launch last year after the failure to reach an agreement , add to the evidence that the Work and Pensions Committee collect on the DWP ' s inadequate approach to safeguarding . the inquiry set out to examine the support that the Department provide to vulnerable claimant , how it have learn from mistake and failure , and what need to change . the new Committee agree to reopen the inquiry on 30 October 2024 . before I turn to the finding and recommendation of the report , I should acknowledge that in the " pathway to work " Green Paper , publish in March , the Government say they be consult " on a new DWP safeguarding approach to make it clear what the department and its staff be expect to do in order to safeguard the public . " I welcome that , and I be hearten by the Secretary of State ' s evidence to the Committee last November . our principal recommendation be for a statutory safeguarding duty to be place on the DWP to protect claimant . although the Secretary of State would be accountable for this duty , reflect the leadership need to drive these change , it would make safeguarding in the DWP everyone ' s business : at all level of the organisation and at all stage of policy development and implementation . the duty would include the proactive consideration of the safeguarding need of claimant , the ability to refer vulnerable individual to other agency with a duty of care , and , again , the proactive consideration of the impact of key policy and legislation on the health and wellbeing of claimant before they be implement . the need for a new legal obligation be clear . the current approach to safeguarding in DWP have be describe as " piecemeal and lack coherence " , and the Committee agree . for that reason , the report call for a comprehensive , system - base approach to safeguard that integrate into every stage of policy development , implementation and review . the approach must involve everyone in the DWP to ensure that safeguarding become a fundamental part of the Department ' s culture . we see a new statutory duty as the cornerstone of a big cultural shift that be need in the DWP . for too long , the focus have be on cost cutting , often at the expense of provide genuine support . that approach have lead to a system in which claimant feel undeserving of support and fearful of the very Department that be mean to assist they . the necessary cultural shift must be drive from the top down , with Ministers and senior official lead the way . a statutory safeguarding duty would help to focus mind , improve accountability and ensure that safeguarding become everybody ' s business in the DWP . the need for deep - root cultural change in the Department can not be overstate . the process of engage with the DWP often lead to mental distress for claimant . this distress be compound by a lack of trust in the system , drive by continual cost - cut measure and an unhelpful media narrative . to rebuild trust , the DWP must prioritise safeguarding and support over cost cutting , and this mean create a system that not only help people to find sustainable work , but compassionately support those who may never work . the report also emphasise the importance of learn from past mistake . the Department have conduct a number of ipr , but the full scale of harm be much high . the ongoing investigation by the Equality and Human Rights Commission into the Department ' s treatment of disabled people and those with long - term mental health condition underscore the need for transparency and accountability . in addition to the statutory duty , the report make a number of other important recommendation , which I will go through quickly . as I have mention , it be recommend that all significant new policy be analyse by the Department ' s chief medical adviser ' s team . currently , such assessment be not routinely carry out , lead to policy that may inadvertently harm claimant or exacerbate exist vulnerability . by make these assessment a standard part of policy development , we hope to ensure that the impact of policy on the health and wellbeing of claimant be consider and harm mitigate . the report stress the importance of have a robust , clear and accessible complaint procedure to prevent failure recur . as I have state , the true scale of death and harm be not know . the report call for systematic recording and publication of all case of serious harm and death involve claimant . the Department should commit to publish this information annually to aid transparency . the report also recommend improve transparency in the process use to learn from serious mistake and failure , and the introduction of an independent body — the Department should not mark its own homework — to investigate serious harm . on define and identify vulnerability , the Department ' s current approach be see as flexible , lack in clarity and consistency . the report call for a formalise definition of vulnerability that be clearly communicate in public - face document . it also recommend add victim of abuse to the additional support area in universal credit , and implement proactive measure to identify and support vulnerable claimant . ensure that vulnerable people can access the benefit they be entitle to be crucial for deliver equitable welfare provision . the removal of the help to claim face - to - face service have make it more difficult for some individual to apply for universal credit . the report recommend that the DWP ensure that jobcentre provide thorough support , and that detailed information about additional support be proactively offer to claimant . in that regard I do give praise , because there be so many good people in the Department , such as the advanced customer support senior leader , who be integral to help frontline DWP staff . I praise those staff , and we need more of they . effective communication and make sure that people be aware of what support they can access be also important , and we need more of it . that also apply to training and capacity building for frontline staff , which need to happen to achieve the cultural change we need . finally , collaboration with other agency need to be a statutory responsibility , and there need to be DWP membership of the safeguarding adult board . I be very grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker .