Oral Answers to Questions Home Department the Secretary of State be ask — Asylum Application Backlog what recent progress he have make on reduce the backlog of asylum application . what step he be take to reduce the backlog of asylum application . last year we clear the equivalent of 90 , 000 legacy claim and process a total of more than 112 , 000 claim — the large volume in two decade . the total asylum backlog be now at its low point since December 2022 . the improvement of process continue , and we will continue to review and improve they to accelerate the decision making from hereon in . I be grateful to the Home Secretary for that update , but there be still four hotel in and around Warrington housing asylum seeker . will he give we an update on the closing of hotel , and will he also tell we what step he be take to speed up the processing of refugee when they be in hotel await the outcome of their claim ? my hon . Friend make an important link between the speed of asylum processing and the need for asylum accommodation in various form , include hotel . we be move away from use hotel as that type of accommodation , thus reduce the cost to the public purse , and we will maintain recruitment level and improve process so that the speed of processing that we be see now can be continue . although I can not make commitment about the specific hotel in my hon . friend ' s constituency , he should rest assure that we be seek to drive down the number of hotel on which we rely . my constituent arrive in the UK 15 month ago and be interview , but have be wait for more than a year to receive a final response . he be not alone : accord to the Refugee Council , 33 , 085 asylum case have be lodge in the last six month alone , put ever more strain on a broken system . the Home Secretary say that the legacy backlog be go down , but what about those more recent case ? what be be do to deal with they ? the improved process and the increase number of Home Office official work on this issue mean that not only the legacy case but the current one will be deal with more quickly , which will reduce the need for asylum accommodation of all type . I can not comment on individual case because the circumstance be different in each one , but the hon . Lady should rest assure that the lesson we have learn about the increase speed of processing will benefit those who be already in the system . of course , we be also determined to drive down the number of people who come here in the first place , reduce the pressure on our asylum processing system in do so . I call the shadow Minister . the shambolic incompetence of this Government across every aspect of its disgraceful mismanagement of our country ' s asylum system know no bound , but today I will highlight a particularly egregious example . we already know that the number of removal of asylum seeker whose claim have be reject have collapse by 50 % since Labour leave office in 2010 , but over the weekend it emerge that the Home Office have lose contact with an astonishing 85 % of the 5 , 000 people who have be identify for removal to Rwanda . where on earth be those 4 , 250 asylum seeker who have go missing ? will the Home Secretary drop all the smoke and mirror and acknowledge that the Rwanda plan be just an extortionately expensive and unworkable distraction ? when will he adopt Labour ' s plan to recruit 1 , 000 additional immigration enforcement officer to a new return unit , so that we can have a system that be base on common sense — order . thank you , Mr Speaker . no , it be not " thank you " . I have to get a lot of people in and this be totally unfair . the question be very , very long , and I be cough to get the hon . gentleman to stop , not to continue . that be the signal we need to understand . if the hon . Gentleman do not want a particular Back Bencher to get in , I ask he please to point they out , because this be give I that problem . the mask have slip . the Labour party have say that even if the Rwanda scheme be to be successful , it would not keep it . that show what Labour member really think about this . they have no plan , they have no commitment , and they have even say that if something be work they would scrap it . [ interruption . ] fraud what step he be take to help reduce level of fraud . apology for my hesitation , Mr Speaker . I be so busy listen to the heckling opposite that it be difficult to focus on what be go on . this question be about something of which we should be very proud . the fact be that fraud ruin live , but this Government have manage to get it down by 13 % year on year , online and offline . it be extremely important that we continue with that ambitious agenda and ensure that we continue to cut fraud so that we can bring it down completely by the end of the Parliament . would my right hon . friend agree that the key to reduce level of fraud be to help people to understand what might be a fraud so that they be not take in by it ? be there more that we can do to help people to spot the sign and not become a victim in the first place ? the question about what be a fraud be become all too prevalent . we have hear of many different kind of fraud come up in many different area , which be why in a few week ' time we will , I hope , launch a new comms campaign about it . the truth be that fraud affect so many people in so many way , and we be try to make sure that people know what be go on so they can claim the help and support that they need , to make sure that we defeat this pernicious evil . we simply do not have the resource or expertise to tackle fraud . I have a constituent who be still wait for a charging decision five year after be the victim of fraud . her retirement have be ruin wait for the police and the Crown Prosecution Service to make the charge decision . Durham constabulary have a single forensic account . do the Minister believe , as I do , that a lack of specialist resource be lead to unacceptable delay in justice ? I completely understand the hon . Gentleman ' s point , and that be exactly why this Government have introduce a new national fraud squad — which be now almost fully recruit , at 400 — and increase the funding available to force to fight fraud . some force be do exceptionally well at this already . Avon be do extremely well and the City of London police be do exceptionally well in lead on fraud nationally . Legal Migration Rules what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on recent change to legal migration rule . the Home Office engage with the devolved nation through the inter - ministerial group and recognise that each of the nation of the UK have vary immigration need , reflect in the varied shortage occupation list for each nation . immigration will , however , remain reserved . it be not possible to operate distinct system without effectively create an internal UK migration border system . figure from the Office for National Statistics have reveal that the change to the minimum income threshold for family and skilled worker disproportionately impact Scotland . median earning on the west coast of Scotland be £ 24 , 700 a year , which be far short even of the climbdown figure of £ 29 , 000 . do the Home Secretary even consider that this policy would effectively cut off migration to part of Scotland that need and would benefit from inward migration ? the Government ' s position be clear : the change that we be introduce be the right thing . the number of dependent we be see come be disproportionate . there will be an opportunity , through the review of the composition of the immigration salary list in the second phase , and through the call for evidence , for exactly those debate to be have and for those view to be make known . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the Home Office ' s knee - jerk policy to raise the threshold and its sudden partial reverse ferret to bring it slightly back down again cause a huge amount of distress to people up and down these island who now do not know what the future hold for they and their family . what equality impact assessment have be carry out on the policy which , as well as affect Scotland , will disproportionately affect woman ? when he announce the change , the Home Secretary make a commitment to lay the information on the project volume in the House Library . it seem that the hon . Lady be criticise the Government for not take the step that we have take to say clearly that the change will not be apply retrospectively . we think that that be the right thing to do and that it have provide reassurance to people . ultimately , we need to get net migration under control and we think it be a pragmatic and sensible package to take forward . that do not answer the question that I put to the Minister at all . what equality impact assessment have be carry out on this policy ? what recognition of wage level in Scotland have there be in relation to the policy ? he can not tell I . one of my constituent tell I that they be worried about their spouse , who work as a legal administrator , come over from Australia . also , a man be worried about his nephew and partner who will never be able to return from Canada if they want to come back to live in Scotland , and there be many more who be guilty only of fall in love with somebody of what the Government consider to be the wrong nationality . will the Minister apologise to they for the chaos that these policy have cause ? the position be as I have set out . we think the number of people come to the country in this way be not sustainable and that we be take forward a pragmatic , balanced package . as I have say , the measure will not be apply retrospectively , so they will not affect exist application that have be lodge . report theft what the average length of time be between ( a ) theft be report and ( b ) first contact with the police in the last 12 month . the Government take domestic burglary very seriously , which be why , just over a year ago , we obtain a commitment from the police to attend every residential burglary . that be deliver result and , accord to the crime survey , residential burglary have fall by 8 % year on year . I thank the Minister for his response . in 2022 , the cost of rural theft in the south - west rise by 16 . 6 % from the year before . have the Minister make an assessment of the success of the new national rural crime unit in improve police contact with victim of rural theft ? I agree that combat rural crime be extremely important , and the national rural crime unit be design to do exactly that . we have also legislate , of course , and we will implement that legislation to ensure that thing like all - terrain vehicle and agricultural equipment have to be mark or fit with an immobiliser . overall domestic burglary have fall by 57 % since 2010 . ten - year drug plan what progress his Department have make on implement the Government ' s 10 - year drug plan " from harm to hope " , publish on 6 December 2021 . the commitment in the drug strategy be be deliver , include invest more than £ 300 million in additional treatment capacity to create over 50 , 000 extra treatment place . we be also enforce hard , such as by close down more than 2 , 000 county line since 2019 . local police in and around Weston - super - Mare have have notable success in disrupt drug dealing and supply , but new dealer quickly take the place of the old one . the quantity of drug and the number of addict be not decline . do the Minister accept that although enforcement and education be vital , they be not enough to solve this problem on their own , and that the underlie legal framework we use to control these dangerous chemical have to be address , too ? enforcement be important . besides close down those 2 , 000 county line , Border Force seize about 19 tonne of cocaine in the year end March 2022 — the large amount seize in a single year on record . I have already mention treatment . the most important thing be to get people out of their addiction entirely , which be why we be invest so much extra money in treatment . there be no plan to change the legal framework . drug be illegal for a reason . they be highly addictive and harmful , and the out - of - control public drug consumption in those jurisdiction that have liberalise significantly , such as California , San Francisco and so on , be not something we want to see in this country . we be see escalate consumption and movement of drug in Northern Ireland , and the drug be come from England and the Republic of Ireland . what discussion will the Minister have with the Republic of Ireland to ensure that we stop drug cross the border ? we want to stop they come from England , too . the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . of course , one feature of the island of Ireland be that there be essentially no border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland , and he have allude to the various challenge that pose . I would be happy to take up that issue and to see what more we can do to disrupt the supply of drug north - south and east - west . I thank he for raise the issue . asylum seeker : hotel what recent progress he have make on end the use of hotel for asylum seeker . what recent progress he have make on end the use of hotel for asylum seeker . what recent progress he have make on end the use of hotel for asylum seeker . what recent progress he have make on end the use of hotel for asylum seeker . what recent progress he have make on end the use of hotel for asylum seeker . we be make significant progress on closing hotel , with 50 due to be close by the end of January and more in the come month . we be also work to move asylum seeker into alternative , cheap accommodation and have successfully clear the legacy backlog by decide more than 112 , 000 case , while maintain the integrity of the system . last year , after the police , the fire service and I raise concern , the Home Office close the OYO hotel in Earl Shilton . however , Leicestershire still have asylum hotel open , include just over the constituency border in Appleby Magna , for example , and my constituent be concerned . will the Minister set out a timeline for when the hotel may close or , more likely , will he set out how the least suitable hotel will be close first so that , as the backlog be deal with , the closing of hotel fall in line , too ? as I set out , we be make good progress . I hear call from colleague from throughout the House for closure in their constituency . we need to stick the course on deliver that , take into account a number of factor include the ease of exit , the speed of exit , the fact that notice period come into play and , crucially , value for money , which the taxpayer would rightly expect . in welcome my hon . friend to his new position , may I urge he finally to make good on his predecessor ' s promise to close the temporary accommodation centre in my constituency and restore the two hotel back to their intended purpose ? will he also work with his colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to ensure that the " local link " rule relate to social housing be amend to prevent Erewash from be disproportionately burden by new application once resident be award asylum ? I hear my hon . friend ' s call for the specific hotel in her constituency to be close . she can be reassure that we will continue to work closely on this issue with colleague from across Government to get it right and make sure that we can exit hotel as quickly as possible . I thank my hon . friend for his early answer . as he know , I receive official notification today that Newton Park hotel , which be a four - star hotel in my constituency before it be take over entirely for use by asylum seeker , be to have the contract end at the end of February . that be an enormous relief to those in those in the small village there and to those in other village that the important V3 bus route go through . I thank he for keep to the word of his predecessor that the hotel use for asylum seeker would end in the second tranche of closure . I be grateful to my hon . friend for the representation she make on this issue . the situation in her constituency demonstrate that the Government ' s plan be work and we be see hotel exit happen . that be a direct consequence of get on and make decision , bring forward alternative accommodation and also , crucially , reduce in - flow into the system in the first place . I welcome the progress that have be make on tackle illegal small boat crossing , which have mean it have be possible to end the use of the North Stafford hotel in Stoke - on - Trent . do my hon . friend agree that it be only through the most unequivocable legislation on Rwanda that we can deliver proper deterrence that will mean that number will come down far ? the point that my hon . friend make get to the nub of the issue . one of the most important factor in sustain the progress we have make be reduce the number of in - flow into the UK , particularly via small boat crossing of the channel . that be why my message to the House be clear : if member want to see hotel close and the progress sustain , they need to be in the Lobby to support the Bill this week . my constituent and I be delighted at the end of last year to see the end of the Ibis hotel in Bramley be use to house illegal immigrant and its return to normal service . will the Minister reassure I that any forthcoming immigration legislation pass in this House will make sure that this situation will never happen again , by ban the use of hotel outright and make sure that illegal immigrant be send to Rwanda for processing ? as I have say , the key principle behind the Bill be to help we to bring to an end the egregious crossing of the channel organise by evil criminal gang . it will help we to ensure that there be great control of our border and that there be not these in - flow into the system , which have undoubtedly have the consequence of our need to respond to that challenge through the opening of hotel . that be precisely what we be try to put a stop to . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . last week , the Times report that there be 10 , 000 hotel bed go unused , at a cost of £ 1 . 5 million a day — that be in addition to the 3 , 500 buffer of empty bed hold as a contingency in case of Manston be overwhelmed . be those figure actually correct ? the right hon . Lady will recognise that it be of course important for there to be a buffer , to make sure that operationally we have the bed space require in a contingency situation to be able to respond to any surge and particular challenge . that be a difficult area but one that we be look at carefully . within the hotel estate , we be of course maximise the use of bed space wherever possible , which again help we to get on and close the hotel , in a way that I think she would like to see . the downside of the volume of asylum application be grant be the pressure that that be put on the local authority homeless section . will the Minister have another look at the time give to asylum seeker from the date on which their application be accept to the date on which they have to move out of home Office accommodation ? will he consider the issue of 28 day versus 56 day , which be the recognise limit under the Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 ? otherwise , all we be go to do be transfer people from Home Office - fund hotel to local authority - fund one , with all the extra pressure of financial problem that that create for local authority . on the date , we be work with local authority to give they as early visibility as possible about the anticipated number of people with decision that have be grant that they should expect to see . that help to forward - plan and we be mindful of those point . as thing stand , there be no intention to change that 28 - day period . clearly , plan and work with local authority be critical , but in many case people have more than 28 day within which to vacate . Oldham have a proud history of support the persecute . as of March last year , our town be home to 910 asylum seeker , 145 of whom be in hotel accommodation , but there the housing crisis meet the homelessness crisis : 1 , 000 people in temporary accommodation , include 500 child . be it not time that the Government review the dispersal policy , to ensure that every part of England play its fair share ? I gently point out that Braintree be home to just two asylum seeker , as oppose to Oldham ' s 910 . I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that I and my official be carefully consider what more can be do to ensure that there be equitability in the approach to dispersal . that be critical , and we need to work carefully through some of the pressure and challenge that these issue present , but I gently say to those on the Opposition Benches that a key part of the response be to get the flow into the system down , and they do not have a credible plan for do that . there be currently 56 , 000 asylum seeker in hotel . the Prime Minister promise to close those hotel some time last year , but since then the figure have go up by 10 , 000 . can the Minister confirm that that figure be correct ? I be clear in my mind that the figure that the hon . Gentleman have cite , and that the shadow Home Secretary use last week , do not represent the picture as it stand today . they will recognise that there be periodic reporting on statistical release , but the figure they cite be not representative of the position on the ground today . reduce Migration what step he be take to reduce legal migration . what step he be take to reduce net migration . what step he be take to reduce net migration . on 4 December , I announce a new package of measure to far reduce legal net migration , include limitation on family dependant be bring in by worker and student , create a salary threshold and raise the minimum income requirement progressively over the next few year . my right hon . friend will know that the net migration figure of over 700 , 000 be completely unsustainable . be it to continue , that would represent the creation of 10 new parliamentary constituency each year . what co - operation do his Department have with the public service that have to meet the demand from the newcomer ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that we must be conscious of the impact of the level of net migration on local population and local authority . we recognise that the figure be too high and we be take action to bring it down . we work closely with other Government Departments to deliver on that , but while Opposition Front Benchers criticise the headline figure , they also oppose every single step we take to bring that figure down . I commend my right hon . friend the Home Secretary and my hon . friend the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border for all their work towards deliver on our manifesto commitment to reduce net migration . my constituent be now look for the result of all their hard work . will the Home Secretary outline how his new legal migration package will make the most of our post - Brexit points - base immigration system ? this country have always have a global outlook : the ethnic composition of the Government at the most senior level be a direct reflection of our global connectivity and those human bridge across the world . we want to ensure this country be able to benefit from the expertise , knowledge and work of the bright and good from around the whole world in a manner that be control , fair , predictable and well enforce . it be good that the Government want to ensure that the bright and good can continue to come to the UK to study , but do my right hon . friend recognise that the change to the family dependant rule for student risk cause enormous damage to some of our elite business school , which compete in the global marketplace for experienced , outstanding professional ? what work be he do with the sector to try to overcome some of those challenge ? my right hon . friend be right to highlight the fact that we be in a globally competitive environment when it come to this country ' s quality high education postgraduate offer . I have no doubt that we be still highly competitive . we will continue to work with the university sector on this and ensure that the people we bring to the UK be here to study and add value , and that no institution in our high education sector mistake its role — they be educator , not a back - door visa system . I beg the Home Secretary to spread those more enlighten view to some of his colleague . migration should not be a dirty word . I be the son of a migrant . I migrate myself to the United States at one stage . my DNA tell I that I be 34 % irish and 32 % swedish . can every member of this Parliament have their dna publish so that we can bring some sense to this discussion about migration ? I be not sure that the Government be able to compel such widespread disclosure — perhaps the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority might have a view on such thing . both side of my family be of immigrant stock : my mother come to the UK in the 1960 , and my father ' s family in 1066 . this country have benefit from control immigration in a fair system , where people who play by the rule be reward and we say no to those who refuse to play by the rule . I be a legal migrant , too . bath have a vibrant hospitality industry that cater for local people and tourist from all over the world , but many of our hotel , restaurant , bar and pub be already struggle to find enough staff or be under threat of reduce work hour and closure . how will the Home Secretary ensure that the propose new salary threshold and measure to reduce legal migration do not worsen those staff shortage ? we liaise very closely with other Government Departments to ensure that our system , which be transparent and fair , also support the british economy . we work particularly closely with the Department for Work and Pensions to ensure that those who have talent and ambition but who , for whatever reason , be currently unable to fully engage in the job market be enable to do so . I myself have a background in the hospitality industry , and we want that industry to continue to thrive . it be not the case that we should automatically rely on overseas labour for that ; we can have home - grow talent as well . the Home Secretary talk about people come to UK university to study . many people also come to our university to carry out ground - break and economically important research , and they be worried about the rise in the minimum income threshold , because that mean they will be unable to bring their family with they . what assessment have he make of the impact of the new change on our university ' important research work ? we recognise the contribution of the international pool of talent . indeed , when I be Foreign Secretary I sign up to a deal with India for talented postgraduate to exchange experience in our respective country . we will always look to support the genuine draw on talent , but we will also ensure that the high education system be not use as a back - door mean of immigration . the system be about research and education , not a back - door mean of get permanent residence in this country . neighbourhood police what recent assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of neighbourhood policing level . give the police the resource they need to police local community and fight crime remain a Government priority . we have deliver on our commitment to recruit 20 , 000 additional police officer ; indeed , we have surpass that . decision about how they be deploy be , of course , a matter for discussion between chief constable , police and crime commissioner , and mayor , who be responsible for their local community . the legacy of Government cut have leave police force across England and Wales with a £ 3 . 2 billion cash shortfall , and 6 , 000 officer have now be take away from frontline policing duty in order to fill the role of former police staff . can the Home Secretary start to acknowledge the effect of Tory cut ? how will he rectify that and get more frontline police back into our neighbourhood across the United Kingdom ? as I say , decision on how a police force balance its important back - office role and frontline policing role be rightly decision for the chief constable . we have give additional resource , and we have deliver on our commitment to have more police officer . of course we be look at police funding formula to ensure that they remain well resource , but there be more than 20 , 000 — in fact , 20 , 947 — additional police officer in England and Wales . that will ensure that there be more police on the frontline . I call the shadow Minister . as my hon . friend the Member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) say , to this day we be feel the devastating impact of the Tories ' decision to cut 20 , 000 police officer . minister such as the Home Secretary seem to expect credit for desperately try to reverse it , but the National Police Chiefs ' Council be right that the effort at reversal have moor 6 , 000 warrant officer in role traditionally fill by civilian . again , we have hear from the Home Secretary that we have never have it so good , but there be still 10 , 000 few neighbourhood police . why will the Government not match our commitment to get 13 , 000 more police officer and police community support officer out on the beat ? unless Labour have a plan for pay for those figure , it be just empty rhetoric . the simple truth be that there be record number of officer in police force across the country , include Essex Police , which I visit this morning — it have never have more police officer than it have currently . it be right that chief constable decide how to deploy those police officer . again , unless we hear a plan to pay for those additional officer , I will not trust labour ' s figure . Visa Income Thresholds : university what assessment he have make of the potential impact of propose change to visa income threshold on the university sector . we have be mindful of the need to balance the impact on individual sector with economic growth , and the need of the labour market with the need to reduce level of immigration . as part of our policy development , we undertake analytical work across Government that support our decision . a regulatory impact assessment will be develop in due course . the director of Universities Scotland , Alastair Sim , have express concern that change to the Government ' s visa income threshold could affect university ' ability to attract global talent . international student and academic make a contribution in excess of £ 5 billion annually to the scottish economy . if the Government recognise the contribution of international student and academic , as they say they do , why be they introduce a policy that threaten to prevent future cohort of they from make a similar contribution ? individual will still be able to make a valid contribution in the year ahead , but in a sustainable and manage way . there be no immediate plan to introduce further exemption to the increase salary threshold , but the salary discount remain in place . we will continue to engage as the measure be introduce . there be also opportunity domestically for recruitment . at every opportunity , we should be try to support domestic recruitment wherever we can . Police Funding Formula what progress his Department have make on review the police funding formula . work to update the funding formula be continue , and I will update the House as soon as I can . the House should be aware that next year , 2024 - 25 , police and crime commissioner fund frontline police will see their budget increase by up to £ 922 million , which be an increase of about 6 % . there be cross - party agreement that the current funding formula be unfair for police in Bedfordshire , with the Conservatives ' own pcc acknowledge that there be simply no meat leave on the bone for local police . my constituent be feed up with be tell that they have never have it so good , or be fob off with one - off grant . will the Minister commit to a date to finally deliver a fair funding formula for my community ? what I will commit to , as far as the people of Bedfordshire be concern , be an increase in funding of £ 10 . 2 million for next year , 2024 - 25 . that be an extra 6 . 5 % compare with this year . they will also have 1 , 455 police officer . that be about 200 more than Bedfordshire ' s police force have ever have at any time in its history . it be not unusual to hear from two Bedfordshire mp when it come to the police funding formula , because this go all the way back to the last Labour Government , but there be a cross - party view in Bedfordshire that our police force be underfunde . will my right hon . friend agree to meet all Bedfordshire mp so that we can press the case for increase in funding for Bedfordshire Police ? I be always happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss these issue . as I say , Bedfordshire Police will receive an extra £ 10 . 2 million next year — an increase of about 6 . 5 % — which I be sure will be welcome up and down the county , but I be of course happy to meet my hon . friend whenever he would like . I presume that be all of they , be it Minister ? I call the shadow Minister . police force be not be listen to when they raise serious concern about the funding formula and how it limit their ability to tackle town centre crime . the British Retail Consortium report that more than 850 act of violence or abuse against shop worker happen every single day . everyone have a right to feel safe at work , so when will the Home Secretary accept that retail crime be out of control and accept labour ' s plan to introduce a new law to protect retail worker from violence and actually stand up for shop worker ? theft offence be down by 47 % since 2010 , of course — those be the crime survey figure — but we have recently launch a retail crime action plan , where police be commit to prioritise attendance at incident of retail crime and always follow reasonable line of inquiry in relation to shoplifting , assault against shop worker and other form of offending . in addition , we legislate in the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 — order . I call Selaine Saxby . neighbourhood Crime what recent progress his Department have make on reduce neighbourhood crime . what recent progress his Department have make on reduce neighbourhood crime . this Government recognise the impact of neighbourhood crime . it be the crime that most affect people ' s confidence — the confidence of individual , business and community . the strategic response to this be evidence - base and target , and get police right in this area be incredibly important for maintain community confidence . I have see for myself how successful the Government ' s safe street fund be in Barnstaple , and I be delighted that it will be extend into Ilfracombe this year . will my right hon . friend ensure that council have the funding to help support those scheme ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight that point . I be proud of the fact that , since 2010 , neighbourhood crime be down by 51 % because of the kind of intervention that she highlight . I reassure she that we will continue to look at what work , to fund and support , and to make every effort to drive down neighbourhood crime even far . police number across Devon and Cornwall be at record level and deserve our praise . in a recent survey , my constituent in East Devon say that tackle neighbourhood crime be an absolute priority , as range from burglary to theft from vehicle . will my right hon . friend outline what progress this Conservative Government have make on crack down on neighbourhood crime ? I be very pleased that my hon . friend ' s local community be feel the positive impact of the decision we have make . since come into Government , we have see serious violence reduce by 26 % , and neighbourhood crime down by 27 % since the start of this Parliament . we have see a 36 % reduction in domestic burglary , an 18 % reduction in vehicle - relate theft and a 61 % decrease in robbery . we have reduce homicide by 15 % , have take action on drug and be commit to — order . Secretary of State — I say the same to the Minister — please , you be very slow at the beginning ; you will not be slow at the end , I be sure . on Friday I visit five Co - op store and every one of they have daily experience of theft , with one lose £ 35 , 000 - worth of good over six month and staff experience assault . in light of labour ' s pledge to introduce 13 , 000 more community police and a law on retail crime , what be the Secretary of State really do ? clearly his plan be not work . we have a retail crime action plan . we have ensure that assault against shop worker be an aggravate factor and we have make it clear to police force across the country that we expect they to take action on neighbourhood crime like that and to pursue every reasonable line of inquiry . we be determined to drive down retail crime . Safer Streets Fund what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the safe street fund on the safety of woman and girl . the objective of the safe street fund and the safety of woman at night fund be to enhance public safety in a direct and targeted way , neighbourhood by neighbourhood . since 2020 the Government have invest £ 150 million across the two fund and the evaluation of round 1 of the safe street fund , publish in January last year , show that the investment be boost trust in the police and make community feel safe . do the Minister justify the Government cut of 38 % of the funding for project to reduce violence against woman and girl in Merseyside ? they have cut £ 400 , 000 , and one project will have to cease . what I can tell the hon . Lady be that under the safe street fund , £ 3 . 9 million have be allocate to Merseyside , include for a project in St Helens town centre . let I remind she very gently of what that be fund . it have go towards lighting , signage and improvement to taxi rank , and one of the most radical measure of all be that it provide woman with a free taxi service home , where the safe street fund will reimburse the taxi driver the money they would otherwise have receive , so that a woman do not have to find herself stand at a windy bus stop or walk home . I call the shadow Minister . we welcome the safe street fund , which will go some way to support the night - time economy that have be badly hit over 14 year . the Government ' s effort to tackle spike have be completely undermine by the Home Secretary . spike be a serious and devastating offence . why do the Home Secretary think it be appropriate to joke about spike his own wife , and can he confirm exactly how many drop of Rohypnol he consider to be illegal ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . I think it have be widely report that the Home Secretary be make a joke about not be good enough for his wife . the point be that we be the first government who have do something about spike — it be not a new offence , and the measure to change the statutory provision in the Offences against the Person Act 1861 could have be take by the last Labour Government . the reason we have seek to clarify the matter in law be that we do not think that enough victim be come forward , and the reason there be not enough prosecution be the time lag in get effective toxicology report . that be why we be invest so much money in rapid drink testing kit , so that hopefully we will be able to get the test do on site on the night , and get more of those offender behind bar . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . this year , the Home Office will continue to build on our progress on the public priority : a 36 % fall in small boat crossing last year , 86 arrest of small boat pilot , 246 arrest of people smuggler , the big - ever international operation result in 136 boat seizure and 45 outboard motor be seize , the illegal migration package announce , more than 2 , 000 county line drug line smash and the introduction of the Criminal Justice Bill to give police leader more power . we be relentlessly focus on deliver community safety on behalf of the british people . now that we have the Home Secretary here to answer for himself , can he tell we whether he be aware that the police be receive more than 560 report of spike every month , and in December the Home Office say that the reason the crime be so prevalent be that it be see as funny and a joke ? how can we have any confidence in the Home Secretary to deliver action on spike when he think it be a joke ? I be the Home Secretary who have actually introduce action on this . in my first week in the job , I visit Holborn police station to see the work of the Metropolitan police in tackle violence against woman and girl . I make it clear to the Home Office that my priority be the protection of woman and girl . I be take action on this issue , and I be absolutely determined to continue do so . I be sure the Home Secretary would agree that anti - extremism training in Departments be extremely important . what more can the Government do to ensure that it be training to tackle extremism , rather than anti - Government and party bias training ? my hon . friend will have see recently a pretty extraordinary report on allegation about extremism and the failure to train properly , and what be go on in university around the United Kingdom . in one recent problematic case , it be say that it be very hard to define what a terrorist be . we know what a terrorist be , the law know what a terrorist be and this government know what a terrorist be , and that be exactly why we have just proscribe Hizb ut - Tahrir . I call the shadow Home Secretary . we welcome the proscription of Hizb ut - Tahrir . five more life be tragically lose in the channel this weekend . as criminal gang profit from those dangerous boat crossing , it show how vital it be to stop they , but we need the Home Office to have a grip . the Home Secretary give no answer early on the 4 , 000 people he have lose from the Rwanda list . can he tell we if he have also lose the 35 , 000 people he have remove from the asylum backlog ? how many of they be still in the country ? I join the right hon . Lady in express sadness and condolence for those who lose their life in the channel . that reinforce the importance of break the people - smuggle gang . the fact be that we be drive down the number of people in the backlog : we be process application more quickly and ensure that decision be make so that those who should not be in this country can be remove either to their own country or a safe third country . that be why the Rwanda Bill be so important , and why we will continue work on these issue . return have drop 50 % since the last Labour Government . the Home Secretary be still not tell we where those miss people be . he appear to have lose thousand of people who may have no right to be in the country , and lose any grip at all . in the ongoing Tory asylum chaos , we have Cabinet Ministers , countless ex - Ministers and the deputy Tory chair all say that they will oppose the Home Secretary ' s policy this week — a policy that we know he and the Prime Minister do not even believe in . if the deputy Tory chair this week vote against the Home Secretary ' s policy , will he be sack , or be the Prime Minister so weak that he have lose control of asylum , lose control of our border , and lose control of his own party , too ? conservative Members of Parliament be absolutely united in our desire to get a grip of this issue . I be not the person who have hold up a sign say , " refugee welcome " ; I be not the person whose colleague oppose each and every rhetorical flourish . until the Labour party come up with a credible plan , I will not take its criticism any more seriously than it deserve . the british people welcome people who come to this country to work and contribute to our economy . but those who abuse our hospitality , commit violent offence and be then send to prison need to be deport at the end of their sentence . will my right hon . and learn Friend update the House on how many be deport last year , and what action he will take to ensure that foreign national who be violent offender be automatically deport when they leave prison ? we be clear that foreign criminal should be deport wherever possible , and we will continue to do so , in stark contrast to the call to stop the deportation of foreign national criminal from the Leader of the Opposition and the Labour party . my hon . friend will be pleased to know that foreign national offender return have increase by 19 % in the last 12 month . my constituent often have to wait month to elicit a response for their asylum or Home Office query . give the Conservative Government ' s persistent failure to effectively manage the asylum system , result in a backlog of almost 100 , 000 case and the excessive use of expensive hotel , do the Home Secretary not feel that now be the time to adopt Labour ' s comprehensive plan , which would end the use of expensive hotel within 12 month and significantly reduce the backlog ? I think the hon . Gentleman mean Labour ' s non - existent plan . the fact be that last year , we make 112 , 000 initial decision ; if the hon . Gentleman have specific case that he wish to raise with I as the Minister , I be very happy to have a look at those , but the productivity improvement that we see last year carry through a lot of learning as we now get on and deal with the backlog . a lot of positive work have go on , and he should recognise that point . Humber - side police now have over 800 more officer than in 2010 , which obviously enable it to provide a well service to my constituent . crucially , it also have top - class leadership , currently provide by Jonathan Evison , the police commissioner , and until recently by Lee Freeman , the former chief constable — I be sure his successor will also provide that leadership . do the Minister agree that top - class leadership be important , and what be he do to ensure improvement be make to the present leadership training scheme ? I join my hon . friend in commend Humberside police force on the progress it have make , particularly under recent chief constable Lee Freeman . in term of improve leadership , of course , Lee Freeman be now one of his Majesty ' s inspector , and he can apply what he learn and put into practice in Humberside across the whole country . on 17 October , the Government pledge in the House to make change to the afghan citizen resettlement scheme pathway 1 and 3 . when can the House expect an update and a plan ? of course , we be continue to work very collaboratively across Government on the response to the situation in Afghanistan , fulfil the commitment we make to provide that sanctuary in the way that we all want to see . we will say more about those effort as soon as we be able . we hear early about the effectiveness of the safe street fund . Falmouth in my constituency , where most of the student live , recently receive £ 67 , 000 ; in addition , our brilliant police and crime commissioner Alison Hernandez have be work with Dawn Dines , who help to successfully change the law on spike . can my hon . friend demonstrate to my Truro and Falmouth constituent how those positive change will improve conviction rate in the Devon and Cornwall area ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , and congratulate her police and crime commissioner on the excellent work she be do . my hon . friend will be aware that we have amend the Offences against the Person Act 1861 so that the offence of spike be capture specifically and comprehensively in law , in part because we want more victim to come forward , but we be tell time and again by the police that the most significant barrier to conviction be the length of time between the offence take place and a toxicology report be receive . we be therefore invest in rapid drink testing research , and we hope to bring testing capacity on site . ukhospitality estimate that 95 % of skilled worker visa that be gain last year would be lose under the new regulation . that be a vital sector for my local economy in Edinburgh and for Scotland , so when will the Government recognise that the revision to the salary level be not sufficient and bring it down to a reasonable level ? I disagree with the hon . Lady ' s interpretation of the situation . we should be work in a collaborative cross - Government way , particularly to support domestic employment wherever possible . comprehensive step be be take through the back to work plan to help deliver on that , and there be many people here on other route who be perfectly able to work and , with the right support , would be do so . that be precisely where we be go to focus our effort . what step be my right hon . friend take to provide advice to police force across the country to help they support community during the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas ? my hon . friend be right to ask that question , because sadly , we have see an absolutely vile upsurge in antisemitism on our street . we have see people who claim to be speak out for equality and justice actually defend people who take slave , who violate woman ' s and girl ' right , and who here in our own country make the jewish community feel uncomfortable . that be exactly why this Government have commit £ 18 million to the Community Security Trust . very sadly , we have also have to commit £ 7 million to academic security , because there have also be a massive increase in antisemitism in university . we be combat all of that . how many time must a demonstration in the same cause be repeat , week in and week out , before the well - fund organiser become liable to pay for at least part of the police cost ? of course , we recognise that there be legitimacy to public protest . we also recognise that the unprecedented and unwarranted pressure that this be put on police around the country be have an impact on community . my view be that the organiser have make their point , and repeat it do not strengthen their argument . unfortunately , we be also see some deeply distasteful people weave themselves in among those protester , who be protest on issue that they feel passionately about , but whose good will be be abuse by other . will the Home Secretary urgently meet his hon . friend and constituency neighbour the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) and I to speak about why it be that , although the whole House pass the Public Order Act 2023 with an amendment to ensure safe access zone for woman use abortion clinic , this be now subject to a consultation that would gut the legislation ? can he meet we urgently ? the consultation be due to end on 22 January , and it would not actually do what all mps in this House vote for . if the hon . Lady write to I on this issue , I will endeavour to find out the detail of the point she have make . rise — final question — Tim Loughton . last week , the Home Secretary produce a report on safe and legal route to comply with section 61 of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 and the amendment I table last year . it be very long and generous on the exist legal route , but can he tell I how my 16 - year - old orphan from an east african country with link to the UK , who be a genuine asylum seeker , will be help to come legally and safely to the UK by what the Government have publish so far ? my hon . friend be a very passionate advocate on this issue , and we have a conversation last week about this very point . the fact be that , since 2015 , we have welcome over half a million people through our safe and legal route . we be introduce the cap precisely because we want to see that generosity extend in the year ahead , but the pressure of illegal migration in particular make that very challenging and difficult . this be precisely the sort of issue I want to study with he as we move forward with the cap , to make sure that we continue to help the most vulnerable people from around the world , work particularly with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and other . defend the UK and Allies I would like to update the House on the action that we take on Thursday night against Houthi military target in Yemen . since 19 November , Iran - back Houthis have launch over 25 illegal and unacceptable attack on commercial shipping in the Red sea , and on 9 January they mount a direct attack against british and american warship . they fire on our ship and our sailor — it be the big attack on the Royal Navy for decade — and so we act . we do so in self - defence , consistent with the UN charter , and to uphold freedom of navigation , as Britain have always do . alongside the United States , with support from Australia , Bahrain , Canada and the Netherlands , we order the RAF to strike two Houthi military facility in Yemen . I want to be clear that these be limited strike . they be carefully target at launch site for drone and ballistic missile to degrade the Houthis ' capacity to make further attack on international shipping . I can tell the House today that our initial assessment be that all 13 plan target be destroy . at the drone and cruise missile base in Bani , nine building be successfully hit . a further three building be hit at Abbs airfield , along with a cruise missile launcher catch in the open . we have see no evidence thus far of civilian casualty , which we take great care to avoid . I know the whole House will join I in pay tribute to the incredible bravery and professionalism of all our servicemen and woman . the need to maximise the security and effectiveness of the operation mean that it be not possible to bring this matter to the House in advance , but we take care to brief member — include of course you , Mr Speaker , and the Leader of the opposition — before the strike take place , and I have come to the House at the early possible opportunity . I do not take decision on the use of force lightly . that be why I stress that this action be take in self - defence . it be limited , not escalatory . it be a necessary and proportionate response to a direct threat to UK vessel , and therefore to the UK itself . let I be absolutely clear why the Royal Navy be in the Red sea . it be there as part of Operation Prosperity Guardian , protect freedom of navigation as a fundamental tenet of international law . the Houthis ' attack on international shipping have put innocent life at risk . they have hold one crew hostage for almost two month , and they be cause grow economic disruption . global commerce can not operate under such condition . container and tanker be have to take a 5 , 000 - mile detour around the Cape of Good Hope . that push up price and imperil the passage of good , food and medicine that the british people and other rely on . we have attempt to resolve this through diplomacy . after numerous international call for the attack to stop , a coalition of country give the Houthis a clear and unambiguous warning two week ago . last week , the UN Security Council pass a resolution condemn the attack and highlight the right of nation to defend their vessel and preserve freedom of navigation , yet the Houthis continue on their reckless path . we should not fall for the Houthis ' malign narrative that this be about Israel and Gaza — they target ship from around the world . we continue to work towards a sustainable ceasefire in Gaza and to get more aid to civilian . we also continue to support a negotiate settlement in Yemen ' s civil war , but I want to be very clear that this action be completely unrelated to those issue . it be a direct response to the Houthis ' attack on international shipping . we should also recognise the risk of inaction . it would weaken international security and the rule of law , further damage freedom of navigation and the global economy , and send a dangerous message that british vessel and british interest be fair game . there be another point here , which be often overlook . the Houthis ' attack risk worsen the dire humanitarian situation in Yemen itself . the UK help to feed around 100 , 000 yemeni every month , with aid arrive via the very sea route that the Houthis have in their sight . the threat to shipping must cease . illegally detain vessel and crew must be release , and we remain prepared to back our word with action . but deal with that threat do not detract from our other international commitment ; rather , it strengthen our determination to uphold fundamental UN principle . if our adversary think they can distract we from help Ukraine by threaten international security elsewhere , they could not be more wrong . on Friday , I travel to Kyiv to meet President Zelensky and address the Ukrainian Parliament . I take a message from this House to the Rada that we will stand with Ukraine today , tomorrow and for as long as it take . if Putin win in Ukraine , he will not stop there , and other malign actor will be embolden . that be why Ukraine ' s security be our security . that be why the UK will stay the course , and it be why I be confident that our partner share our resolve . far from our resolve faltering , our military support to Ukraine will increase this year . we will provide the big single package of defence aid to Ukraine since the war begin , worth £ 2 . 5 billion . that will include more air defence equipment , more anti - tank weapon , more long - range missile , thousand more round of ammunition and artillery shell , training for thousand more ukrainian serviceman and woman , and the single large package of advanced drone give to Ukraine by any nation . all of that be on top of what we have already provide to support Ukraine . in total , since the war begin , the United Kingdom will have provide almost £ 12 billion of aid to Ukraine . we be the first to train ukrainian troop , the first in Europe to provide lethal weapon , the first to commit main battle tank , the first to provide long - range missile , and now we be the first to keep the promise make at last year ' s NATO summit , alongside 30 other country , to provide new bilateral security commitment . Ukraine ' s rightful place be in NATO , and NATO will be strong with Ukraine in it , but these commitment will help bridge the gap until that day come . under the new agreement that we sign with President Zelensky , we be build Ukraine ' s military capability ; and if Russia ever invade Ukraine again , we will provide swift and sustained assistance , include modern equipment across land , air and sea . together with our ally , the UK will be there from the first moment until the last . for all of this , I bring a message of thank from President Zelensky to the british people . today , I hope that the House will join I in send a message back to the ukrainian people : that we stand together as one in support of these firm commitment . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] we be build a new partnership with Ukraine , design to last 100 year or more . yes , it be about defence and security , but it be also about trade , investment , culture and more . there could be no more powerful sign of our unique bond than Ukraine ' s decision to adopt English as the language of business and diplomacy . so , through the British Council , we be go to fund english language training for the ukrainian people . in dangerous time , we be invest in defence , harden our critical infrastructure and build our alliance . we be resolute in our principle : international security ; the rule of law ; and freedom to determine your own future . an attack on those principle be an attack on everything that we believe in and on which our life and livelihood depend . as the home of parliamentary democracy and a leader in collective security , it be our responsibility to defend those principle and to defend our people . that be who we be . that be what Britain do and will always do . I commend this statement to the House . we come to the Leader of the Opposition . may I thank the Prime Minister for the secure briefing last week and for an advance copy of his statement ? let I reiterate that labour back this target action to reinforce maritime security in the Red sea . we strongly condemn the Houthi attack , which be target commercial ship of all nationality , put civilian and military personnel — include british force — in serious danger . the Houthi attack be unacceptable and illegal and , if leave unaddresse , could lead to a devastating rise in the cost of essential food in some of the poor country . the international community clearly stand against the Houthi attack . alongside the UK and the US , four other country be involve in non - operational support , over a dozen nation be part of the maritime protection force in the Red sea , and many other support the recent UN Security Council resolution , which condemn the Houthi attack in the strong possible term . the UK strike be limited and target , and do everything possible to protect civilian life . that be a proportionate response . military action must of course always be underpin by a clear strategy , and it be the role of this House to ask the right question . so I ask the Prime Minister : what confidence do he have that his stated objective have be meet ? what process will he follow in the face of continue Houthi attack ? what effort be under way to maintain the support of the international community ? will he confirm that he stand by the parliamentary convention that , where possible , military intervention by the UK Government — particularly if they be part of a sustained campaign — should be bring before the House ? Scrutiny be not the enemy of strategy . while we back the action take last week , these strike still do bring risk , and we must avoid escalation across the middle east . will the Prime Minister tell we how the UK will work with international partner so that our rightful action be not use as an excuse by those who seek to expand violence throughout the wide region , or indeed reanimate the conflict in Yemen ? none the less , our armed force across the region be show the high professionalism and bravery , both in defend commercial shipping and in this target action . we thank they . we be proud of they . they continue to show that Britain be a force for good , as do the UK ' s unwavere unity in support of Ukraine and against russian aggression . on the Labour Benches , we have back all military support for Ukraine , so again we back the Prime Minister ' s announcement of £ 2 . 5 billion for Ukraine next year , and we strongly support the agreement on security co - operation , which will give Ukraine vital confidence to plan for the year ahead . I hope that it become a template for other ally to follow and that , in time , Ukraine will become a full member of NATO . to those listen in Kyiv , Moscow or elsewhere in the world , let I be clear : whoever be in government in Britain , the UK will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take . return to the middle east , it be now over 100 day since the brutal event of 7 October . Israel ' s right to self - defence be fundamental , as be its duty to comply with international law . the long the conflict in Gaza rage , the great the risk of escalation throughout the entire region . on the Israel - Lebanon border , we must urge constraint . we must make it crystal clear to all party that the UK do not support this conflict extend far in Lebanon . within Israel and Palestine , in the west bank , settler violence must stop immediately , and in Gaza we need a humanitarian truce now — not as a short pause , but as the first step on a road away from violence . the need for a sustainable ceasefire be clear to stop the killing of innocent civilian , to create the space for the return of all the hostage , and to provide urgent humanitarian relief to protect against disease and ward off a devastating famine . from that first step , we can begin a big push towards peace , a permanent end to the fighting and a last political solution . the hope of a two - state solution be fragile , but it be still there and we must fight for it , just as we must remain resolute in the face of aggression that threaten global security , whether in Europe or in the Red sea . I thank the right hon . and learn Gentleman for his support for the action that we have take . he be absolutely right to highlight the international coalition that , over recent week , have call out the Houthis ' behaviour , culminate in the UN Security Council resolution strongly condemn the attack , which he rightly reference . our stated aim be to degrade and disrupt the Houthis ' capability to launch attack on civilian shipping . as I indicate , our initial assessment be that our strike have be successful in the specific target that be select . obviously , that be an initial assessment , but that remain our case at the moment . more generally , we want a reduction of tension in the region and a restoration of stability . that be our stated aim . it be incumbent on the Houthis not to escalate and not to continue what be illegal and unprovoked attack on civilian shipping that put innocent life at risk and damage the global economy and the price that british citizen and other pay for their everyday good , as the right hon . and learn Gentleman rightly point out . I assure the right hon . and learn Gentleman that it be necessary to strike at speed , as he acknowledge , to protect the security of the operation . that be in accordance with the convention . I remain committed to that convention , and would always look to follow appropriate process and procedure , and act in line with precedent — he will know that there be strike in 2015 and 2018 , when a similar process be follow . I also provide the right hon . and learn Gentleman with the assurance that he rightly ask for about our international engagement , because there will be malign force out there that seek to distort our action and to turn it into something that it be not . it be important that we engage with our ally and other in the region , so that they understand what we do and why . I provide he with the assurance that we have do that and will continue to do that , because it be important that there be no linkage between these action and anything else that be happen . this be purely and simply to respond in self - defence to illegal attack by the Houthis on commercial shipping . I welcome the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s support for the announcement we make with regard to Ukraine . he be right to point out the importance of the security commitment we sign . thirty country at the Vilnius summit promise to do so . this House should be proud that the United Kingdom be again lead by be the first country to sign such a commitment , which I believe will serve as a template for other to follow . I can tell he of the enormous appreciation in Ukraine for the UK do that , so that there be long - term certainty for the ukrainian people of our support , as well as further deterrence to Russia and other against future aggression . in conclusion , the confluence of these two event over the same 24 hour serve to highlight the increase threat we face as a country . the global environment be become more challenging and more unstable . it be incumbent on we to respond to those challenge with increase investment in defence , as we be do , and by strengthen our alliance , because ultimately we must defend the principle of international law , freedom and democracy , and freedom of navigation that we all hold dear . this government will always stand ready to do that and to protect the british people . the Prime Minister be clearly absolutely justified to respond as he do , particularly after the direct attack against HMS Diamond , but give that at the time of the Falklands campaign we have 35 frigate and destroyer and be spend 4 . 5 % of gdp on defence , whereas both those figure can be cut in half to describe our situation today , do he agree that we certainly should not be reduce the number of frigate or destroyer , and that we certainly should not be mothball , or otherwise decommissioning , our amphibious assault ship ? I be happy to reassure my right hon . friend that our intention be to increase defence spending from where it currently be up to 2 . 5 % when circumstance allow . it be worth remind the House that we have consistently over the past decade be the second large spender on defence in NATO — large than 20 other country combine . our plan will continue to provide that leadership . within that , there be a very strong equipment plan , underpin by the £ 24 billion extra that the Ministry of Defence receive in its most recent settlement , which for the Royal Navy include Type 26 , Type 31 and Type 32 frigate . with regard to the specific vessel my right hon . friend talk about , the Defence Secretary have ask the First Sea Lord to plan how the Royal Marines ' excellent work can be take forward , so that they have the capability they need to continue their work and the ability to be deploy globally . when that process conclude , the Defence Secretary will of course update the House . I call the SNP leader . I would like to begin by echo the Prime Minister ' s sentiment in relation to Ukraine . all of we on the SNP Benches remain firmly unite behind its struggle against Vladimir Putin ' s Russia . when Sir Walter Scott write that in war both side lose , I be not quite sure he have factor into the equation the like of the Houthis , because they be , of course , the fundamentalist ' s fundamentalist . unperturbed by be on the receive end of Saudi Arabia ' s bombing for many year , they be , the perceive wisdom would suggest , not just content but perhaps even quite happy to be on the receive end of american bomb . that context pose an enormous question for all of we in this House as to what come next . if , as have be suggest by the Houthis ' action over the course of the last 12 hour or so , the message that we seek to send have not be receive , what do we intend to do ? what be the plan ? what be the Prime Minister ' s strategy ? will he come to the Dispatch Box and , unlike his predecessor in relation to middle east conflict in Iraq , Afghanistan and Syria , lie out when and how far he be willing to go in relation to military action ? clearly we need to understand his Government ' s strategy in this conflict , because we can not have an escalation that lead to further regional instability . while we would all agree , quite rightly , that we should not fall for the Houthis ' narrative that this be directly relate to the conflict in Israel and Gaza , we can not escape the fact that a ceasefire in Gaza be essential for that wide regional stability . let I finally say that , although the Prime Minister have seek to defend his decision not to come to the House last week , it be clear that the House should have be recall . it be what the public would have expect , and I urge he to do well in future . I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment about Ukraine and his support for our approach . obviously I will not speculate on future action . what we conduct be intend as a single , limited action , and of course we hope that the Houthis will step back and end their reckless and destabilising attack , but we will not hesitate to protect our security and our interest where require . we would , of course , follow the correct procedure , as I believe we do in this case . although the hon . Gentleman be right to ask question , we should also recognise the risk of inaction , because do nothing would absolutely weaken international security and the rule of law , would far damage the freedom of navigation and the global economy , and — perhaps most important — would send the very dangerous message that british vessel and british interest be fair game , and that be simply unacceptable . of course I be happy to answer question about the situation in Israel and Gaza , but the House should make it very clear to the outside world that there be no link between what we have do last week and the situation there . this be a specific action in self - defence against the Houthis , who be conduct illegal strike against innocent civilian shipping . that have nothing to do with what be go on in Israel and Gaza , and we must never let anyone think that this House believe that there be a link . I commend my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary for his excellent and wide - range speech this morning , in which he rightly point out that we face dangerous time . do my right hon . friend the Prime Minister agree that , while how we spend defence money be important , it be vital and without doubt that defence need a great deal more money — more than 2 . 5 % and these arbitrary target — if our brave man and woman be to fight a sustained conflict in the year ahead ? I agree that the Defence Secretary make an excellent speech early . he highlight , as I do , the fact that defence spending have consistently meet our NATO obligation . we have be the second large defence spender in NATO , and in the last settlement defence receive the large increase — £ 24 billion — since the end of the cold war . my hon . friend be right that the threat we face be increase . it be right that we invest to protect the british people against those threat , and that be exactly what the Government be do and will continue to do . while not have a vote in this House be regrettable , Liberal Democrats support limited strike against the Houthis to open international shipping lane , but we can not lose sight of the fact that this region be a tinderbox . we have see attack on US soldier in Syria and Iraq , the terrorism of Islamic State in Iran , the rocket of Hezbollah , and the israeli strike in Beirut — all stem from the horrifying conflict in Israel and Gaza . can the Prime Minister tell we what conversation he have have with our NATO and european ally , but also with leader of Gulf country , to ensure that these limit strike remain limited ? as I have say , we be engage extensively with our international partner , include our Gulf ally . I speak to the President of Egypt just last week , and will continue to do so . let I say again , however , that it be important that no one take away the idea that this House believe , on any side , that there be a link between direct action in self - defence against the Houthis and the situation in Israel and Gaza . they be entirely distinct . we will do everything we can to bring more aid into Gaza , and to make sure that we work hard for a sustainable ceasefire . that be separate from our ability and necessary duty to defend our interest and our people . I commend the Prime Minister for his firm and principled response to event in the Red sea , but be it not clear from Iran ' s support for Hamas , Hezbollah and the Houthis that it will do anything to stop a last peace between the arab state and Israel because the iranian regime believe that Israel should not exist at all ? would it not be a real defeat for Iran to see it isolate by a meaningful resolution of the palestinian issue and the supercharging of the Abraham accord in a process to bring peace and stability to the region , all underpin by an international resolve to confront Iran ' s proxy wherever they threaten our interest and value ? I thank my right hon . friend for his excellent remark and for his work on the Abraham accord , which have do much to bring more peace and stability to the region . he be right to say that the behaviour of the iranian regime pose a significant threat to the safety and security of the UK and our ally and ensure regional instability where we want to see more peace and stability . I can assure he that we be keep abreast of all the risk in the area . that be why , for example , the Royal Navy last year and the year before continue to interdict illegal arm smuggling by the Iranians to the Houthis . we will continue to keep in close contact with our ally to take all the measure we can to protect our people and ensure that the Iranians ' destabilising influence in the region be reduce to the good extent possible . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement . he have be crystal clear on the need to degrade the capability of this terrorist organisation , the Houthis , that be cause havoc in the Red sea . he will also know that Yemen be one of the poor country in the world and be suffer a mass humanitarian crisis with over 21 million people in need of humanitarian aid and support . what will he do to ensure that the civilian of Yemen be not again engulf in a mass humanitarian catastrophe ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise an incredibly important point . I reassure she and the House — she will know this from her own experience — that we be steadfast in our support to the yemeni people as one of the large donor of lifesave aid to the UN appeal . we be also commit , I believe , £ 88 million in this forthcoming year — over the last several year we have commit £ 1 billion — and that will help to provide food for at least 100 , 000 people every month and deliver lifesave healthcare through 400 facility . the yemeni people be suffer and we be do everything we can to alleviate that suffering . early this century , follow threat of access to the Suez canal from somali piracy , the international community unite with a widely base taskforce to successfully suppress it . now that the Houthis be threaten seafarer ' life and international navigation — along with the trade and job that depend on it — will the Prime Minister seek the wide possible international taskforce to deal with that ? will he also support the people of south Yemen , who want nothing to do with these terrorist ? the right hon . Gentleman be right about the necessity of build international coalition , and I be pleased to say that that be happen . operation Prosperity Guardian , which we be proud to be a partner of , be uphold freedom of navigation in the region . as have be mention , the UN Security Council resolution that be pass on 10 January be instructive in this sense . it condemn in the strong term the Houthi attack , demand that they immediately cease all attack and note the right of member state to act in accordance with international law to defend their vessel . the right hon . Gentleman will also have see the statement publish by around a dozen of our ally before and after the strike , which I hope will reassure he that there be broad international support for what we be do and for the call on the Houthis to desist . I represent a constituency with a proud maritime tradition . family be anxious about commercial shipping staff whose job take they through the Red sea , and a scramble towards military action be endanger those UK seafarer . maritime union be call not just for more protection but for co - ordinate diplomatic effort to resolve the crisis . after today ' s attack on a ship , can the Prime Minister explain to seafarer how dropping bomb will lead to a de - escalation of a situation that be already endanger their safety ? that question be quite extraordinary . it be Houthi rocket that be endanger the life of seafarer in the region . we have see shipping company welcome the action we be take , because they be keen to see security and stability restore to the region . that be what we be aim to do : to disrupt , destabilise and degrade the Houthis ' ability to carry out these attack and to restore stability to region . that be very much the focus of our attention . we be act in self - defence to protect the life of seafarer , not endanger they . the right hon . Lady would do well to call out the Houthis to stop what they be do . do my right hon . friend agree that the international law case for his Government ' s action in the Red sea be , unusually in my experience , relatively straightforward ? do he also agree that the next significant challenge be to maintain and enhance a multinational consensus on deter and combat more of these attack , if they occur , and that act in compliance with and respect for international law assist we in that task ? my right hon . and learn Friend be right . I hope he will have see the publish legal summary of our advice on this issue . this proportionate and necessary action be take lawfully to respond to attack by the Houthis , and it be the only feasible mean to do so . the UK be , as he know , permit under international law to use force in such circumstance . it be right that we have due regard for the legal advice in such situation , and I reassure he that we will continue always to have regard to it . while we fight to protect international law , it be important that we also follow it ourselves . accord to the YouGov poll take last month , 71 % of the british public want a ceasefire in Israel - Gaza , yet last week the Government launch airstrike in the Red sea in escalation of the situation in the middle east . although the Government be not under any constitutional obligation to have a parliamentary vote on that military action , or to abide by the result of any such vote , do the Prime Minister believe that the Government have a duty to the british public and the parliamentary community , which represent the british people , in build political support for such military action ? the Leader of the opposition rightly say we need to ensure that malign actor do not try to distort what we have do for their own purpose . I gently say to the hon . Lady that to conflate and link our action against the Houthis with the situation in Israel - Gaza just give ammunition to our enemy who seek to make thing bad in the region . we act in self - defence , and I have explain the reason , the process that we follow and the accountability that I have to Parliament , which I be now discharge . separately , we will , of course , work very hard to bring humanitarian aid into Gaza and to try to bring about the sustainable ceasefire that we all want to see . I commend my right hon . friend for prosecute this military action . as a matter of law it be highly necessary and clearly proportionate , and his legal position be watertight . country around the world depend on that route but , as usual , it be the british and the Americans who do something about protect it . however , there be report that more Houthi attack be take place this afternoon . will he take more military action , if necessary ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his support . of course , he will understand that I will not speculate on future action . this be intend as a limited single action , and we hope the Houthis will now step back and end their destabilising attack . as I say early , we will not hesitate to protect our security , our people and our interest , where require . if we do so , we will , of course , follow the correct procedure and precedent , as we do in this case . the Prime Minister be right that Ukraine need military support , but it also need to be rebuild . last year , the british Government oppose proposal that we should seize $ 300 billion - worth of russian state asset sit in bank around the world , include in the UK , and use they to rebuild Ukraine . however , I note that the Foreign Secretary say in the United States of America in December that he be now argue that we should be able to seize those asset . should we not legislate to ensure Putin pay for the reconstruction of Ukraine ? I be not entirely sure that I agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation of the situation . I agree that Russia must pay for the long - term reconstruction of Ukraine and I have be clear about that . on the G7 leader call at the end of last year , I be the one who raise this issue and , as a result , the G7 have collectively task Finance Ministers with explore all lawful route to ensure that russian asset be make available for that purpose . we be work at pace to identify all option for seize those asset , and I reassure he that we be ensure , in conjunction with our international ally , that the measure will be safe , robust and compliant with the international rule of law . again , it be the UK , together with the US , that have be lead that conversation in the G7 . Houthi attack on shipping be a global problem , and it be right that we act , alongside our partner . where close ally do not participate in those airstrike , we still need they to act and act alongside we . will we encourage they to redouble their effort to interdict arm smuggling from Iran into Yemen and therefore help to degrade far the military capacity of the Houthis ? my right hon . friend make an excellent point , and we will continue to work with our ally . I hope he will have see the statement put out by about a dozen of our ally after the strike reiterate their support for what we have do . he will know that there be non - operational support from a handful of other country , together with the much large coalition of nation that be involve , in different way , in Operation Prosperity Guardian . where other country can play a part in interdict iranian shipment , bring stability to the region and protect international shipping , we of course want to work with they . the Defence Secretary and the Foreign Secretary be have those conversation as we speak . we live in most challenging time , with instability in the middle east , Europe and Africa . it be important that we have the right kind of leadership and response . we must make sure that our international shipping route remain open . what be the Prime Minister ' s assessment of the degradation of the Houthis ' capability after the action last week ? on Ukraine , we must stand united in this House in say that the Russians must be defeat for the aggression they have show . we should remain together , united , in say once again , " Slava Ukraini " . lastly , the Prime Minister talk about a sustainable settlement in Gaza . it be important that we recognise the scale of the humanitarian suffering , so may I ask he for an update on what we be do to ensure that in Gaza we deliver peace and security , with the hope of a well world as we come through 2024 ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his support for the action in Ukraine . let I touch on his last point , because I agree with he ; we be , of course , concern about the devastating impact of the conflict in Gaza on the civilian population — too many people have lose their life already — and there be a desperate need for increase humanitarian support into Gaza . I be pleased that the UK be play a lead role : we have triple our aid . recently , the Foreign Secretary appoint a humanitarian envoy to the region to address some of the blockage , and we deliver our first maritime shipment of aid into Egypt — more than 80 tonne of new aid . when I speak to Prime Minister Netanyahu , I impress upon he the importance of not only increase the flow of truck , but , crucially , if we can , open up extra crossing into Gaza , so that we can increase the flow of aid . we will continue to press on Israel to do that , so that we can bring more relief to people who be suffer a great deal . I thank the Prime Minister for a clear statement . it be report that the drone be use by the Houthis be be help by Iran . the American Enterprise Institute have report that Russia have give $ 900 million to Iran for drone . will the Prime Minister assure the House that we be do everything we can in this country to make sure that none of that money be go through the UK financial system ? let I tell my hon . friend that she be right and we agree with the US assessment that Iran have directly supply and directly support Houthi attack in the Red sea , provide intelligence , especially to enable their targeting of vessel , and provide they with missile and unmanned aerial vehicle . she be right to say that we should do everything we can to prevent that , and I reassure she on that . she will know about the measure we have take over the past two year on financial transparency and beneficial ownership register , which allow we to crack down on economic crime and money laundering . physically , the Royal Navy be involve in interdict shipment , as it have do successfully last year and the year before . it will continue to have a presence in the region so that we can disrupt those illegal arm flow . it be a critical time internationally , but we have a staffing crisis in our Navy , so can we do more to boost the recruitment of sailor by offer science , technology , engineering and math qualification ? when will we see our Navy back up to full strength ? our Royal Navy be one of the top five in the world . it be capable of operate in all the world ' s ocean simultaneously and we be one of only two country to operate fifth - generation jet from the sea , so we should be confident and proud of our Royal Navy . as I have say , we be invest in more equipment and capability go into the future . the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight some of the recruitment challenge — the Defence Secretary highlight some of they the other week — but we be double down on all our initiative to ensure that our armed force have the staff they need for the future , and that those personnel have the equipment and supply they need to do their job effectively . I fully support my right hon . friend the Prime Minister . I welcome both his statement about the action he take on the Houthi and the other part of the statement about Ukraine , because we must support Ukraine and its future . on the reality of the Houthi , we know that Iran have support , have supply and continue to direct the Houthi in their attack ; it support and direct Hamas in their brutal attack in October ; and it have arm and direct Hezbollah on a regular basis and tell they what to do , through the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . we understand all that , so why be we still reluctant to proscribe the irgc , which be responsible for so much of the co - ordination of that work ? there be still two iranian bank in the City of London feed money to those terrible organisation . I thank my right hon . friend for the work he personally do in support Ukraine . I agree with he about the risk that Iran pose to the UK and to regional stability . we have sanction more than 400 iranian individual and entity , include the irgc in its entirety . the National Security Act 2023 implement new measure to protect the british public — it have be describe by intelligence chief as " game change " — particularly in tackle espionage and foreign interference , with tough power to arrest and detain people suspect of involvement in state threat . as my right hon . friend will know , we do not routinely comment on proscription , but I hope he will have see the statement today about our proscription of Hizb ut - Tahrir , on which I know he and colleague have rightly be focus in previous year . some 17 million people in the region be live in hunger and food shortage , the people of Yemen have be bombard by weapon supply by Britain from Saudi Arabia for year , and we have a dreadful conflict go on in Gaza , where there be 30 , 000 people dead or missing . where be the comprehensive plan by the western nation to try to bring about a comprehensive peace across the whole region , rather than pump more and more weapon and money into more and more conflict that will get bad ? do the Prime Minister have any hope for the future that there will be a lessening of conflict , rather than the present , very rapid increase in it ? I do have hope . as we and other take action to degrade and disrupt the capability of those who be malign actor in the region , that will give the space for positive voice to build the peace that we all want to see and to allow everyone to live side by side with dignity , security and opportunity . the right hon . Gentleman point out some of the humanitarian strife that people be suffer . we should be proud of our record in this House . we have commit over £ 1 billion of aid to Yemen since the conflict begin in 2014 . we be currently provide food to at least 100 , 000 people every month , as well as life - save healthcare to 400 facility . Yemen be entirely reliant for food on import , largely by sea . the Houthi attack serve to prolong the humanitarian suffering of the yemeni people and disrupt the very supply of the food that the right hon . Gentleman , I and everyone in the House want to see deliver to those people . Yemen have be close to my heart , as it have be for the right hon . member for Walsall South ( Valerie Vaz ) , because we be both bear there . I thank the Prime Minister for all the humanitarian aid that be go there . what discussion have he have with the yemeni Presidential Leadership Council ? what impact do he think the strike will have on the fragile peace process ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for her work in the region . as a UN Security Council penholder on Yemen , the UK be continue to use our diplomatic and political influence to support UN effort to bring last peace to Yemen through an inclusive political settlement . we support the saudi - Houthi negotiation and , indeed , the deal that be announce in December last year by the UN special envoy for Yemen , whom my hon . friend will know . minister continue to be in dialogue , particularly with our saudi partner , so that we can try to bring to the yemeni people the peace and stability that they deserve . I be grateful to the Prime Minister for state today that , with the recent strike , the UK seek to uphold international law and seek to protect civilian . may I ask what the Government ' s strategy be to prevent escalation ? also , last week the Government confirm that there be currently no RAF aid flight or Royal Navy delivery plan to take essential aid into Egypt and onwards to Gaza — why ? I be not entirely sure that the hon . Lady be right on that . we remain committed to increase the amount of aid that we get into Gaza . we have triple the financial amount and , as I have say , we recently see our first maritime shipment of aid into Egypt by the UK military ship RFA Lyme Bay . the hon . Lady will be aware that there be considerable blockage and logistical challenge on the ground , which we be work to help to resolve . that be also why we be put pressure on the Israelis — I speak to Prime Minister Netanyahu about this — to open up additional crossing such as Kerem Shalom . that will help we to increase the flow of aid into the region , and we absolutely want to see that happen . Britain have a proud tradition of defend waterway , which be vital for all of we who care about humanitarian crisis and the delivery of aid . at the moment , we be see Russia try to stop the movement of grain through Turkey , and the potential of the Houthis to shut off access to the Red sea . it be vital that we keep those international waterway open , because otherwise we will face a catastrophic situation and starvation across many african country . my right hon . friend make an excellent point , particularly about the Black sea . he will recall that Ukraine ' s grain export disproportionally go to some of the most vulnerable country in the world . Russia start a campaign of target that civilian infrastructure last year . with our support , Ukraine have be able to push back the Black sea fleet and degrade Russia ' s major combatant vessel . with the support of the City of London in improve the insurance for ship , we have now see 300 ship export 10 million tonne of cargo through the new Ukraine corridor . that highlight the importance of what my right hon . Friend say . again , in this House , we should be proud of the lead role that the UK have have in make that possible . the Houthis be an antisemitic terrorist group that have cause havoc in Yemen over the past decade , start a civil war that have kill more than 350 , 000 people . their slogan include the line , " death to America , death to Israel , a curse upon the Jews " . will the Prime Minister join I in condemn the shameful pro - houthi chanting that we see at many protest in the UK over the weekend ? I commend the hon . Lady for her remark and I wholeheartedly agree with she . we will absolutely not tolerate that kind of language on our street . we have be crystal clear about that . we have say to the police that they should take all decisive action against those who promote and encourage terrorism and , indeed , those who incite hatred and division on our street . I hope the hon . Lady will have see today ' s proscription of Hizb ut - Tahrir , which be another organisation that use language similar to that she describe . its promotion of terrorism be root in antisemitic ideology . I hope that give her reassurance that we will confront this and stamp it out wherever we see it , because it be not in accordance with british value . jewish people in this country deserve to be able to walk our street in freedom and security . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s decision last week to take military action in the Red sea , and the substantial increase in aid for Ukraine . will he take this opportunity to reiterate and make it absolutely clear that it would be utterly against the national interest , and indeed the security interest of the world , for the british Prime Minister to be hobble in the decision that he make about take military action by the need to consult in advance ? do he not agree that the responsibility that he bear be intrinsic to his seal of office and should not be give up ? I thank my hon . friend for his comment . in this case , it be necessary to strike with speed and protect the security of the operation . I believe that that be in accordance with the convention and , indeed , precedent on these matter . my hon . friend be right : the Government need to protect the security interest of the United Kingdom . that mean that sometimes we have to act decisively , quickly and securely . fundamentally , we need to maintain the prerogative power that allow the Executive to act in such emergency , but of course I be responsible for those decision , I do not take they lightly , and Parliament be responsible for hold I to account for they . past mistake in the middle east should have teach this House that military intervention that start out as limit can quickly escalate , risk a sequence of event far large and more terrible , and even risk drag we into war . it be for that reason that , accord to report in the Times , Foreign Office official be " incredibly nervous " about last week ' s military assault in Yemen . drive the region ' s instability be Israel ' s horrify assault on Gaza , which have now last more than 100 day . rather than give Israel the green light to continue its brutal bombardment of Gaza , and risk a wide conflict , will the Prime Minister seek to de - escalate the situation and call for an immediate ceasefire ? perhaps the hon . Lady would do well to call on Hamas and the Houthis to de - escalate the situation . too many people give a free pass to the terrorist who perpetrate the bad murder of Jews . we have just see an example of that , just as we see example of it on our street this weekend , where people scream , " Yemen , Yemen , turn another ship around " — completely unacceptable . one thing that link the Houthis , Hezbollah and Hamas be their genocidal intent towards Jews and their hatred of everything that we stand for in the western democracy , which be why it be incumbent on we to defend those value . I agree with everything that the Prime Minister have say , and urge he once more to ensure that our police take action against those on our street who openly support terrorism . I reassure my hon . friend that the police have extensive power to arrest those who incite violence or racial hatred . of course , we keep all law under review . we be work with the police on whether we need to strengthen those power , but I have be absolutely clear that there must be zero tolerance for antisemitism and any form of racism . we will not stand by when we see it happen , and the police should ensure that those who do that face the full force of the law . the Foreign Secretary say yesterday that the purpose of the air strike in Yemen be to send a message , but the message that we intend to send be not necessarily the message that get receive . the message seem to have be send to many in the region that the UK be intervene in the war very clearly on the side of Israel . what plan do the Government have to manage and contain the escalation that be likely to ensue ? simply proclaim that the activity be intend to be limit , not escalatory , do not make it so . that be why we take this action as a last resort , after extensive attempt at diplomacy , include a UN Security Council resolution . the hon . Lady could help , because this Parliament could speak with one voice so that the outside world and our ally in the region know that this have nothing to do with Israel and Gaza , and everything to do with our self - defence . divert shipping via the cape put a financial burden on we all , none more so than the Egyptians , due to reduce traffic through the Suez canal . will my right hon . friend explain what discussion he have have with his egyptian counterpart on their involvement in the multinational response ? I speak to President Sisi just last week . my hon . friend be right to highlight the economic impact on people around the world : 15 % of global trade pass through this corridor , and we be already start to see the impact of reroute on the price of shipping , and ultimately on the price that british people will pay for their good . my primary conversation with the President at the moment , though , be about increase the flow of aid into Gaza , where Egypt be do an extraordinary amount . we will continue to give it all the support that it need . the Prime Minister say that the state aim of this action be to degrade the capacity to strike . we have have confirmation that today another cargo ship — a US cargo ship — have be strike by a ballistic missile . there have be explosion at the yemeni port of Hodeidah . the Defence Secretary tell the medium this morning that this Government be prepare to " take the decision that need to be take " if the attack continue . give the news that the attack have continue , will the Prime Minister set out what those decision be and how he intend to involve Parliament in that process ? it would not be right to speculate on future action , but what I can say be that our strike be intend to degrade the Houthi capability and , as I say , they do — initial assessment show that they effectively destroy 13 target at two site , include drone , an airfield and a cruise missile launcher . as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for Yemen with my hon . friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) , we have see at first hand how this brutal , misogynistic , homophobic and antisemitic terrorist regime , back by Iran , preside over the world ' s great humanitarian crisis and responsible for throw ten of thousand of young man to their death on the frontline , have act . since 2022 , they have benefit from a tentative ceasefire . be this not a lesson in how sustainable ceasefire can not be achieve with terrorist organisation unless and until they have be deprive of their arm and have succumb to democratic legitimacy ? I thank and pay tribute to my hon . friend for his work on Yemen . I say very simply that I agree with he and he make an excellent point . I appreciate why the Prime Minister be try not to link this to Gaza , but the reality be that the long the Gaza war go on , the great the instability in the middle east . it be nearly 100 day since he give his first statement after the terrible , horrendous action by Hamas . he justify the action this week with regard to the protection of marine right . in those 100 day , 7 , 000 palestinian child have be kill . what effective action be he take to protect the right to life of palestinian child and to prevent what be , in reality , the indiscriminate killing of palestinian child by the Israel Defence Forces ? as I say , we be deeply concerned about the devastating impact of the fighting in Gaza on the civilian population . too many people have lose their life already , which be why we continue to call for international humanitarian law to be respect and for civilian to be protect . it be something that I continually raise with Prime Minister Netanyahu when I speak to he , and it be why we be do absolutely everything we can to get more aid into Gaza to help those child and everyone else affect by what be happen . I very much welcome this robust statement , but I agree about proscribe the irgc . operationally , give the continue threat to international shipping and , by extension , to our own economy , will the Prime Minister consider task the carrier group that be ready to deploy from Portsmouth to the Gulf ? more strategically , do he agree that interruption to our global supply chain underline the symbiotic relationship between our security and the UK economy ? if we rightly seek to play a great role in uphold international law as our world become ever more contested , we need to expedite upgrade our defence posture , not least in the maritime space . my right hon . friend make a very good point about the interconnectedness of the world . the instability that we see , whether it be in the Red sea or , indeed , the illegal war conduct in Ukraine by Russia , have have a direct impact on the economic security of british people here at home . that be why it be right that we invest in defence and protect people , and that be why I know that he will continue to engage in dialogue with the Defence Secretary about how good to deploy that extra defence investment to ensure that we have the capability we need . rise — order . please resume your seat . we have already have an hour on this statement and it look as though a considerable number of member still wish to get in . please ask short question so that I can help get everyone in . the right of innocent passage be a fundamental principle of international law and can not be interrupt by non - state actor . however , although the Prime Minister might wish that this be not the case , international law be not a menu . it come as a package ; we can not pick and choose which bit we want to uphold and which we want to ignore . be he unable to see how ignore Israel ' s egregious breach of international law in Gaza , while purport to act in defence of it in Yemen , actually undermine international law and the rule - base order ? no . Israel have the right to act in self - defence against Hamas , who conduct a terrorist attack on it , and we continue to call for international humanitarian law to be respect and for civilian to be protect in that conflict . the House should be in no doubt that conflate issue relate to Israel and Hamas be not a mature way to look at the problem that the Prime Minister have to consider last week . he have make the right decision on the evidence , in accordance with law . have he fail to take that action , he would have be expose to justifiable criticism in this House . in the light of the approach that he be take , with regard to Ukraine and the work we be do with the Ukrainian Government , will more be do to help our friend in Ukraine to develop far their justice process , which in the long term will improve the good governance of that independent country ? my right hon . and learn Friend make an excellent point and I be pleased to tell he that the Attorney General be deeply involve in the work he suggest . we be support the work of the office of the Prosecutor General of Ukraine in particular but , more generally , the agreement that I just sign with President Zelensky ensure our mutual commitment to help he reform the public administration in Ukraine . that be something he be passionate about and keen to do , and he will have our support in do it . the Prime Minister have hear the support for limited , targeted action against the Houthis , and I listen carefully to what he say about the effort to prevent civilian casualty , which be unfortunately an issue I have to raise many time in relation to the previous conflict in Yemen . can he say a bit more about what we be do practically to ensure that strike be tightly target against Houthi military capability ? he rightly make the point that they be be do to protect civilian shipping , but can he say more about what we be do to prevent civilian casualty ? obviously , the hon . Gentleman will respect the fact that we do not comment in depth on the choice of target , but we do use carefully calibrate intelligence , in conjunction with our military partner . the target be select specifically to degrade military capability and narrowly focus on take out military hardware that could be use to attack commercial shipping . I can reassure he that every effort be make to minimise civilian casualty , and our initial assessment say that have be successful . the Foreign Secretary say over the weekend that the world be in the most dangerous situation it have be in for decade . the UK have see military deployment in Ukraine , Kosovo , Guyana and now the Red sea . it be crucial to ensure that our armed force have the appropriate support and the resource they need . the Prime Minister have say that the Government be commit to an aspiration of 2 . 5 % spending on defence . when do he see that aspiration become a reality , and will the Government now look at increase that far to 3 % , in line with the Foreign Secretary ' s statement ? we have be invest in anticipation of the threat increase , which be why at the last spending review the Ministry of Defence receive a £ 24 billion cash increase — the large sustained increase since the end of the cold war . since then we have invest an extra £ 5 billion in increase stockpile and improve the sustainability of our defence nuclear enterprise . in 2025 , when we have the next spending review , we will of course set out the target and the path towards 2 . 5 % . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement and assure he that the Democratic Unionist party will stand with he and with our Government in send a clear message to those who would seek to attack either our shipping route or our position . we will not be silence by those who believe that they can work in the shadow to supply Yemen , or indeed any other country , with intelligence or arm . will he affirm that the friendship and approach between the United Kingdom , the United States of America , Australia , Canada and many other nation remain strong enough to stand together against any attempt to undermine our current position ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his support . he be right about the importance of work with our ally . he will have see that all the country he mention be joint signatory to the statement that be put out in advance and after the strike . of course we have a right to defend ourselves , and of course sinister force , such as the Houthis and Iran , be exploit these tension , but as we have influence on the Americans because we step up to the mark , can my right hon . friend work with the american President to ensure that , just as he be completely vigorous in defend Israel and its right to exist , he be even as vigorous in defend the right of the palestinian people to their own state , in peace and justice , without a settlement be impose on they every week ? I say to my right hon . friend that we want to see the long - term future of a two - state solution where palestinian and israeli people can live side by side in security and freedom , and with dignity and opportunity . that be the future that we be all strive for , and the event of the past few month have just remind we that we need to double our effort on make that happen . I regard with the utmost seriousness the threat pose by Houthi force to mariner in the Red sea , but do the Prime Minister accept that uphold the right to freedom of navigation in the region be an international challenge that should be deal with through international diplomacy aim principally at secure a sustainable ceasefire in Gaza , and that , by join US - lead military action without reference to the UN , we be in danger of exacerbate the threat pose to british citizen by terrorism ? again , the hon . Gentleman have wrongly link and conflate the situation in Israel and Gaza with the illegal attack by the Houthis on innocent commercial shipping . that be simply wrong . as I point out in my statement , extensive diplomatic avenue have be pursue before military action be take as a last resort , include a UN Security Council resolution . I commend the Prime Minister for his action . he have act clearly on robust legal advice , and the legal position in international law be surely clear . do he agree , first , that it be unhelpful — and frankly dangerous — to make bogus comparison ; and secondly , that the great risk of escalation go forward will be in fail to act robustly when clear and egregious breach of international law take place ? I agree with everything my hon . Friend say . he be absolutely right that there be a risk in inaction . to have do nothing in the face of these attack would have be to damage the security of our people and our interest . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s commitment to protect the fundamental tenet of international law and uphold the fundamental principle of the United Nations , but be it equally as distinct and limit to this action as it to all other situation ? I do not completely follow what the hon . Gentleman say , but I say that our action in this case be specific to the case at hand . we act in self - defence because there be escalate attack from the Houthis and defiance of international diplomacy . it be right that we take action to protect the security and interest of our people . give the global shortage of basic ammunition , artillery round and air defence system and missile , be it not time that we upscale our industrial defence capacity so that we can continue to support our friend in Ukraine and replenish our own stock ? that be an excellent point . in a word , yes . that be why we have invest £ 2 . 5 billion in rebuild our stockpile . beyond the money , we do need to build our defence industrial capability . that be a challenge share across NATO that I have discuss extensively with partner , include the NATO Secretary - General . of course , part of our agreement with Ukraine be how we can mutually help to support and grow our defence industrial complex . the death and destruction in Gaza be intolerable . well over 20 , 000 child and innocent civilian have already be kill by israeli force , more than 100 israeli hostage be still hold by Hamas , and there be the real risk of an escalate wide regional conflict . we desperately need an end to the violence , so can the Prime Minister explain exactly what diplomatic progress he have achieve towards secure a sustainable ceasefire and peace in Gaza ? I thank the hon . gentleman for be , I think , the first member on the Opposition Benches to remind the House that Hamas still hold 100 israeli hostage — it be good that he point that out . he be right : we be continue to do everything we can to bring about that sustainable ceasefire , include work with the Qataris and other to secure the release of hostage and put more aid into Gaza , because I want to see what the hon . Gentleman want to see . no one want to see this conflict go on for a moment long ; it must be a sustainable ceasefire , and that be what we will work hard to bring about . the International Atomic Energy Agency recently confirm that Iran be once again ramp up its uranium enrichment activity to near weapon grade , so in welcome today ' s statement and the action we have take , I also urge my right hon . friend to give the House his assurance that he and his counterpart among our ally be not lose sight of the really big question about whether Iran should be allow to have a nuclear weapon . have he consider whether it be the right time to activate the snap - back sanction provision of the joint comprehensive plan of action ? that be an excellent point . there be absolutely no credible civilian justification for enrichment at the level that the IAEA have report in Iran . we be determined that Iran must not develop a nuclear weapon , and we be actively consider next step with our international partner . that mean all diplomatic tool , include — as my right hon . friend say — use the snap - back mechanism if necessary . we all stand behind Ukraine in the face of russian aggression , but do the Prime Minister accept that if we believe that the UK ' s security be important in relation to Ukraine , we be give relatively less than other country such as Germany ? can and should we be do more ? we should be proud of our record . we have be one of the large contributor to the effort in Ukraine , but it be also important to recognise that we have consistently be the first country to act , and that have galvanise other . that be an important role that the Ukrainians especially recognise . I go through the capability that be true for , but again , crucially , we be the first country out of the 30 that promise to sign a security commitment . as other follow , that will enhance and improve Ukraine ' s deterrent against Russia , and that be something we should be proud of . I welcome the fact that the Prime Minister be in the Chamber , open himself up to democratic scrutiny , but I also welcome the fact that he take the decision to act — take that heavy duty and responsibility — before come to this House . it be folly to ask for a vote in advance of action , and it be in the interest of our national security that the Prime Minister can act . that precedent go a long way back , well before the precedent he have cite of 2015 and 2018 . it be the constitutional basis on which we defend ourselves as a country . I thank my right hon . friend for his support and his comment . he be right that this be not a decision I take lightly , and right to point out that publicise an action like this in advance could undermine its effectiveness and risk life . of course , it be Parliament ' s responsibility to hold I to account for such decision , but it be my responsibility as Prime Minister to make those decision . the Prime Minister may not be aware — perhaps he be — that I be not the great expert on international relation , but I be bear on 17 August 1940 , when the german bomb be fall all over and I be shelter in a shelter . I have be a labour friend of Israel ever since I go to the London School of Economics , but I do not trust Netanyahu ' s Government , although I do support the limited action that the Prime Minister have announce . as someone who be bear in the blitz , I care very deeply about action that might lead to an even great conflagration in the middle east . that be the danger — it seem to I that it be exactly what Putin and Iran want . please , let we be careful in our step , although I do support this limited action . I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment , and reassure he that the action we take be — I believe — necessary , but it be limited , proportionate , and in keep with international law . that be the approach we will always take in such matter . this year , I be proud to once again celebrate Christmas and new year with Huddersfield and Colne Valley ' s vibrant ukrainian community , just as I have do for many year . they tell I first hand how proud and appreciative they be of the UK ' s steadfast support for Ukraine . will the Prime Minister continue to make the case , not only to the british people but to our NATO and international ally , for why we must make sure , alongside Ukraine , that Putin ' s evil aggression do not succeed , and remind people of what the dire consequence would be if it ever do ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . if Putin be to succeed , it would not just embolden he , but embolden our adversary around the world , and that be why it be important that we continue to invest in Ukraine . as I say to all our ally , an investment in Ukraine ' s security be ultimately an investment in our security , and that be why we must stand with it for as long as it take . the Government of Japan clearly bring the resolution to the UN last week for specific reason , and it be a very detailed resolution that be vote on . one part of it , which they think be extremely important , be the part to deal with the " root cause " of the conflict in relation to Yemen . can I give the Prime Minister an opportunity to reflect again on the question pose by my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) : what be the Government ' s plan now to play a part in the ending of that conflict ? what come next ? as I have say previously , we be supportive of the saudi - Houthi negotiation and of the deal announce in December by the UN special envoy . we have be in dialogue specifically with the Saudis on this issue , and we continue to want to see a last peace in Yemen bring through an inclusive political settlement . I commend my right hon . friend for his decisive action . the threat pose by Houthi rebel to global trade demonstrate the importance of maintain well - resource armed force on land , at sea and in the air . give the current challenge in recruitment and retention of service personnel , will my right hon . friend consider further support for cadet unit , such as the excellent one at Ilkeston and Long Eaton in my constituency , to ensure that we have a train supply of recruit who be ready and willing to serve ? may I say to hon . friend that that be an excellent idea , and I pay tribute to all her local cadet for the incredible job they do ? I be sure the whole House will have experience of that in their own constituency . I can say that we be introduce a number of way to improve recruitment in the armed force and look at more innovative way to attract people into it , and I know the Defence Secretary will have hear what she say with interest . military action in place such as Afghanistan , Iraq and Libya , in which the UK have play a part , have frequently result in unintended consequence , trigger further cycle of conflict in and around these country . will the Prime Minister accept that the US and the UK bombing Yemen risk escalate tension at a time when violence be spread in the middle east , and will he commit to allow Parliament to vote on any further action ? I think the hon . Lady ' s characterisation of what we do be not right . it be not bomb Yemen ; it be take target , limited action against Houthi military site that be launch attack on civilian shipping . as hon . member have say , it be also worth point out the risk of inaction , which she fail to mention , because do nothing would send a dangerous message that british vessel , british interest and british life be fair game , and that would be unacceptable . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend for the action he have take and for the leadership he have show . can he tell the House what discussion he have have with key influencer and key ally in the region such as Qatar , Egypt and other that have play a prominent part in seek to de - escalate tension in the area ? I can reassure my right hon . friend that I and both the Defence Secretary and Foreign Secretary be have those conversation . I speak to President Sisi recently and , indeed , all other leader in the middle east towards the end of last year . as we speak , the Foreign Secretary be engage , together with his colleague , in extensive dialogue to make sure our ally and partner understand what we do and why , and that we remain committed to see a peaceful future for everyone live in the middle east . inspector of the International Atomic Energy Agency have be deny access to a Russian - occupy ukrainian nuclear power station for two week and have not yet receive 2024 maintenance plan for the facility . can the Prime Minister tell I what assessment the UK Government have make of that situation ? I think that just highlight Russia ' s continue malignant activity , which serve to cause everyone alarm , particularly when it come to the security of nuclear power . the IAEA must have free access to all the site it need to , and it have be a long - stand concern that it have not be able to have that . we continue to call out russian behaviour at the UN and elsewhere , and that be what we will do to make sure that it be accountable . the freedom of navigation be an uncontested right , whether it be in the South China sea or the gulf of Aden . before I be in this place , I be a shipping broker . could the Prime Minister reassure the shipping industry , of which London remain one of the foremost capital , that we will be able to lay on more support with armed convoy through the gulf of Aden and into the Red sea , and that we will supply as much reassurance as possible and equipment for the maritime protection force that have be mention by other ? I hope my hon . friend will have see the welcome response from the shipping industry and lead shipping company , which have welcome the action we have take to restore security to the region . we be member of Prosperity Guardian , which be something the shipping industry be keen to see , so that we can bring that safety of transit for all their client . we will be in regular dialogue with they , as the Transport Secretary have be , in the come day and week . since the outbreak of war in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , as well as the crisis in ship security , which have now lead to the UK military response to protect british interest , fight between Hezbollah and Israel have be intensify , risk a wide escalation engulf Lebanon , Iraq , Syria and other country . can the Prime Minister be more specific and tell the House exactly what he be do , work with the US and regional partner , to bring an end to the war in Gaza and to stop a full - blow regional conflict , which we be all very concerned about ? we be call on Hamas and use our influence with their partner in the region to release hostage , and we be make sure we get as much aid into Gaza in the interim , because we know there be a need for it . we be concern by the impact be cause , and the UK be play a lead role in alleviate the suffering . I thank the Prime Minister for his clear statement on this necessary military action in Yemen . can I join he in pay tribute to our brave armed force ? can he reaffirm that this action be important for protect freedom of navigation and the safety of shipping , which have direct and indirect impact on world trade and the UK economy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to point out the impact of what be happen in the Red sea on british family at home . some 15 % of global trade pass through this corridor , and as we be see , if that have to reroute , it will have a direct consequence on the price that british family pay . as we see with the Ukraine and Russia situation , we can not ignore what be happen . we need to act to protect british people and ensure their economic security . of course the Houthi rebel must stop their attack in the Red sea . the Prime Minister be correct in his statement to speak of the dire humanitarian crisis in Yemen . he have speak at the Dispatch Box today about the aid delivery to Yemen , yet he fail to mention that under successive conservative Governments humanitarian aid to Yemen have fall since 2018 , both as a cash figure and as a proportion of official development assistance . if the Prime Minister accept that there be a humanitarian crisis — not just in Yemen , but across the globe in Gaza , Ethiopia and other country — will his Government return to 0 . 7 % ? that move would be support by member from all part of the House . we be the fifth large donor to the UN appeal in Yemen , with a billion pound since the conflict start . we be provide food to at least 100 , 000 people every month . it be a record that we should be proud of , where the UK again be lead by example and make an enormous difference around the world . since 1875 , the Royal Navy have have the key objective of keep the Suez canal open for commercial shipping , so this action should have come as a surprise to no one , and I commend the Prime Minister on his decisive action in that regard . however , listen to the statement today , I be not hear much of a connection with Gaza . what I be hear again and again in question be connection to Iran . it be easy to look at the symptom , but the cause also need to be look at . will my right hon . friend be work with our international ally to deal with the question of Iran ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; the linkage be with the behaviour of the iranian regime . we agree with the US assessment , and I can reassure he that we be work closely with partner . obviously , we be take step to protect ourselves here at home with the National Security Act 2023 and other measure , but internationally we want to see Iran ' s influence on the region create less instability . that be why , for example , our interdiction of illegal arm shipment be so important , and we will remain actively engage on how we can do more . clearly we could not ignore attack on international shipping , and we be right to act with international partner . we must continue to work to broaden that partnership in deal with the situation as we go forward . have say that , can the Prime Minister say how we measure success with this limited engagement ? how do we deem it to be safe for international shipping to return to the Red sea ? what be the end plan ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his support . on its merit , as I say , our initial assessment be that we have be successful in destroy the specific target that be select , but that remain an initial assessment . we want to see what he speak about : a return of safe shipping to the region . the Transport Secretary be engage regularly with company about their passage , and we will continue to do everything we can , work together with our ally , to ensure that safe passage through the region . the Iranian - back Houthis be a terrorist group who have kill hundred of thousand of Yemenis and be fight the internationally recognise Government in Yemen . the action that the UK take with ally last week be absolutely correct . what further effort be the Government make to augment the already impressive international coalition , with more country step up and play their part , to ensure freedom of navigation , which be so important for global free trade ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and we will continue to engage diplomatically to broaden that coalition . as he know , 14 country have sign the statement — the UN Security Council resolution — but ultimately everybody be impact when freedom of navigation be imperille as it be , not just through the security of their citizen , but because of the shock to their domestic economy from high inflation . so I be confident that we will continue to have a broad coalition for condemn what the Houthis be do and call on they to desist . after the horrific event of 7 October , the Prime Minister tell the House that the UK be work to prevent escalation . he say : " we be increase our presence to prevent broad regional instability at this dangerous moment . " — [ Official Report , 16 October 2023 ; Vol . 738 , c . 24 . ] yet in the follow month , nearly 24 , 000 Palestinians have be kill , and there have be cross - border fighting with Hezbollah , air raid in Lebanon and Syria , and now Houthi attack on vessel in the Red sea , result in US and UK strike in Yemen . do he accept that the attempt to prevent escalation and broad instability be fail , that the cycle of violence must stop , and that that require an immediate humanitarian ceasefire and an end to the indiscriminate bombardment of Gaza ? in Gaza , no one want to see the conflict go on a moment long than be necessary . we support a ceasefire , but it must be a sustainable ceasefire that will last . that be what we will continue to work to bring about . I congratulate the Prime Minister , who be right to act with force , determination and firepower against the Houthi terrorist to protect international shipping and keep the Red sea shipping lane open . with the recent deal between Ethiopia and Somaliland open up the real possibility of international and regional recognition of Somaliland as an independent country , which would help to enable stability in the horn of Africa , the southern end of the Red sea and the Gulf of Aden , do my right hon . friend agree that the UK should follow Ethiopia ' s example and start the process to recognise Somaliland as a sovereign , independent country ? I thank hon . friend for his support of our action . he will know that the Foreign Office and Ministers be regularly engage with our partner in Africa . what we want to do be bring prosperity and security to the region , and we will continue to dialogue with everyone to ensure that that happen . have be bear in Aden , I be obviously sadden that the democratic and humanitarian crisis in Yemen over the last nine year have not provoke such an active response against the Houthis . who advise the Prime Minister not to come to Parliament ? how will he ensure that the peace agreement in Yemen be actively and vigorously monitor and pursue ? as I say , we support the saudi - Houthi negotiation and the deal announce in December by the UN special envoy on Yemen . I urge the Houthis to stop jeopardise the good chance of peace in Yemen in year and engage constructively , so that we can expand the benefit that the truce have bring to the yemeni people . of course , we need to see progress from they on that . once that be do , hopefully all of we can look forward to a bright future for the yemeni people . there be credible report that the Houthis , who launch missile at HMS Diamond and the ship of our american ally , be train in their use in Iran by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . the irgc be therefore a direct threat to our servicemen and woman , just as for many year it have be a threat to british citizen on the street of the United Kingdom . I hear what my right hon . Friend say about the sanction that have be apply to the irgc , but may I urge he to recognise that now be the time to proscribe the irgc as a terrorist organisation , because that be what it be ? I agree with my right hon . friend about the destabilising influence of the iranian regime . we will continue to work constructively with our ally to ensure that we do not just protect our citizen at home , but reduce and degrade Iran ' s ability to destabilise the region far . I very much welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement on funding for Ukraine and the UK - Ukraine security co - operation agreement , which , in line with the NATO - Ukraine commission ' s programme , focus now on increase Ukraine ' s defence industrial base and ensure that it can provide long - term assistance against Russia ' s aggression . can he tell we what discussion he have with President Zelensky about exactly how both Government and UK manufacturer will be involve in implement that in full ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right about the necessity of do that . it be a feature of our conversation last week , but we also facilitate a visit by some of our lead defence company to Ukraine at the end of last year to further the co - operation between our two country . there be a path forward to see how we can build that — to build the defence industrial base in Ukraine to help it to defend itself in future . I associate myself with all the comment make by the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition on the commitment to root out antisemitism . it be unacceptable for british Jews to be hold responsible for the action of Israel as a Government , as be the idea that they can have any effect on the israeli Prime Minister or his Cabinet . in the same vein , give the rise of Islamophobia , it have be a new low and a painful blow today for the Prime Minister to say to a british Muslim in this House , my hon . friend the Member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) , that she should tell Hamas and the Houthis to stop do what they be do . that be an Islamophobic trope . maybe the Prime Minister will reflect , withdraw and take the opportunity to show leadership and apologise . come back to the question , the Government — Order . I think the hon . Lady have ask a question . I have say to all member consistently not to conflate these conflict and , when call on the UK to de - escalate tension , to recognise that the people cause these situation in the first place be the Hamas terrorist organisation and the Houthis . it have nothing to do with anything other than recognise the instigator of this violence and illegality , and ensure that that be uppermost in everybody ' s mind when we have these conversation about the good way to respond . rise — can we focus on the question , please ? only a handful of mp have have the chance to scrutinise the Foreign Secretary since his appointment last year . in fact , news presenter have have more opportunity to scrutinise he than we have . Parliament be suppose to be sovereign , and we must be able to scrutinise major decision , such as last week ' s air strike . what step be the Prime Minister take to ensure that we in this House can scrutinise the Foreign Secretary , and debate and vote on military action ? my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) have make regular statement over the past couple of month on foreign affair . I be here answer question about last week ' s action , and the Procedure Committee be actively look at how we ensure proper accountability and scrutiny — I give evidence on that particular topic to the Liaison Committee in December . we must support the recognise yemeni Government , not least by help they to address the huge problem of malnutrition and hunger . the Government have slash aid by almost £ 200 million . the Prime Minister have already answer several question on humanitarian aid , but will he reverse the cut to the aid budget to address the human suffering in Yemen , which only fuel the success of the Houthi terrorist ? I be proud that we host a food security summit , which be warmly welcome by vulnerable country last year . perhaps the hon . Lady could tell the House how she would propose to pay for the £ 5 billion increase in the aid budget that she propose . while the Prime Minister have clarify that the strike in Yemen be disassociate from Gaza , the iranian arc have draw a different conclusion , not least as the strike take place the same day as the International Court of Justice case bring by South Africa . we know that the only way forward be de - escalation . give that assault continue on the merchant navy , and assault in Gaza continue over the weekend , when will the Prime Minister condemn Israel ' s attack on civilian and call for an immediate ceasefire ? I have address that previously . with regard to South Africa ' s referral of Israel to the ICJ , that development be unhelpful . we do not agree with it and I do not believe it be right . as we have previously state , Israel have a right to take action in self - defence against Hamas . it be important that it do that in accordance with international humanitarian law , and we will continue to make that point to it . we be now in a very dangerous moment , when the war in Gaza risk spread into a much wide and even more deadly war across the middle east . there be a real risk that our country will find itself in yet another war in the middle east that it can not get out of easily . to avoid any wide war , do we not now need an emphasis on de - escalation and diplomatic effort ? do the need to seek such a wide diplomatic solution not make it more urgent to be push for a ceasefire in Gaza ? as I say , no one want to see the conflict in Gaza go on a moment long than be necessary . we support a ceasefire , but it must be a sustainable ceasefire that will last . that mean Hamas no long in power in Gaza and no long able to threaten Israel with rocket attack and other form of terrorism . Hamas simply do not represent the palestinian people ' s legitimate aspiration . some in the House may recall that one of my constituent be hold captive by the Houthis for five year , simply for be in possession of a british passport . the House will know that we be able to get he safely return , but we should be under no illusion about the nature of the Houthis . may I re - emphasise the importance of minimise civilian casualty in any action the UK be involve with ? will the Prime Minister impress that not only on our highly professional armed force , but our partner in any further action take by the UK ? I can give the hon . Gentleman that assurance . again , our initial assessment be that we be successful in minimise civilian casualty in this case . there be time when a Government need to take military action without the approval of Parliament , include for operational security or the element of surprise . however , last week ' s strike be signal very plainly in the medium . the strike could have be debate , vote on and support by this House in advance of action . tomorrow , I will table a Bill that would require parliamentary approval for the engagement of UK armed force in armed conflict , even if it be retrospective . will the Prime Minister support it ? as I say , it be necessary to act with speed to allow our armed force to maintain the vital security of their operation and to ensure their effectiveness . I believe that that be in accordance with the convention on the deployment of military force . as I say previously , we must maintain the prerogative power that allow the Executive to act in such emergency , but I be here in Parliament to explain the action in full and take responsibility for it . the Prime Minister , early in his statement , say that the Houthis be aid by iranian military intelligence asset to target british shipping . do that mean that the UK Government consider iranian military intelligence asset to be legitimate target for future military strike ? I think what I say be that we agree with the US assessment that Iran support Houthi attack and provide intelligence in a general sense to enable Houthi target of vessel . I have talk about the destabilising influence of Iran in the region and the threat it pose to the UK . that be why we have take significant and decisive action to protect ourselves against that threat and will continue to work with our ally to restrain its malign influence . as much as the Houthis might wish to conflate their piracy with support for the palestinian people , their indiscriminate attack on shipping from across the world indicate otherwise . but while I agree that under international law there be justification for this military intervention , what be the Prime Minister ' s assessment of the risk that the action could ignite conflict across the middle east , and of apparent double standard in when the UK or its ally choose to observe international law ? we always strive to ensure that we comply with international law , as we do in this case , but we should also recognise the risk of inaction . do nothing would very clearly weaken international security and the rule of law , and damage freedom of navigation and the global economy . crucially , it would send a very dangerous message : that british vessel , british life and british interest be fair game . that be not something we could allow to stand . in his statement , the Prime Minister tell we that one of his motive be the ordinary people of Yemen . he say that the Houthis ' attack risk worsen the dire humanitarian situation in Yemen itself , before pat himself on the back over the number of people the UK help to feed in Yemen . he be not wrong about the Houthis , but surely the cut in the international aid budget pose the big threat to Yemen and the people of Yemen . two year ago , the Government cut it from £ 221 million a year to £ 81 million — an eye - watering cut . will the Prime Minister restore that aid , and if not , do he understand why we in the SNP remain unconvinced of his motive ? as I have say , we be proudly one of the large contributor of aid to Yemen . it be the Houthis who , by disrupt shipping , be disrupt the very supply of food that be necessary to feed their people . when it come to increase the aid budget , I take the decision I do because I believe it be in our country ' s good interest , give its financial situation post covid . we now know that Scotland be the highest - tax part of the United Kingdom economy , so perhaps the hon . Lady can explain to the british people what taxis she would increase to pay for an increase in the aid budget . the Prime Minister be right to say that there be a consequence of inaction just as there be a consequence of action , and clearly the Houthis give no alternative to the response that have come from the UK and our ally . however , the Prime Minister also say — incredibly , I think — that their attack on shipping be completely unrelated to the appalling civil war in Yemen , for which they be entirely responsible and which have claim nearly 380 , 000 life . surely the attack have everything to do with that conflict . there be a concern that the Houthis ' political position have be strengthen inside Yemen and beyond as a result of the action on both side . what assessment have the Prime Minister make of the impact of these action on the peace process , and can he spell out not what we have do and be involve in , but what more we will do to achieve a political solution and a political settlement in Yemen ? what I say be that our response be not link to the conflict in Gaza and should not be conflate as be so . as I have say , we be the penholder on Yemen in the UN Security Council , so we be have extensive diplomatic engagement with ally , notably the Saudis , to see whether we can support the deal that be announce in December , and we will continue to do so . obviously , the onus be on the Houthis to engage with that process to bring about peace and stability for the people of Yemen . nothing anger I more than those who choose to use the plight of the Palestinians to further their own nefarious end . that apply to Iran primarily , but also to its proxy . do the Prime Minister accept that the good way to pull the rug from under the iranian regime be to achieve that two - state solution by way of an immediate bilateral ceasefire in this conflict ? as I have say previously , we do support a ceasefire but it must be sustainable , and multiple thing have to happen for it to be so . as I have also say previously , we remain committed to a two - state solution , because I believe in a future — as do the Government and , I think , the House — in which palestinian and israeli people can live side by side in peace and security and in which everyone can live their life with dignity and opportunity . that be the future that we be strive to build . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s remark about the situation in Ukraine and our commitment in that regard . however , the escalation and conflagration of the situation in the middle east , which have see 23 , 000 death of civilian include child , be not only shocking but be now extend to a crisis of other nation and across the world . do the Prime Minister agree that we need to see a negotiate ceasefire in Gaza , and that ultimately , 30 year on from the Oslo accord , we have to see a " land for peace " negotiate deal ? no one want to see this conflict go on a moment long than be necessary . we support a ceasefire , but it must be a sustainable ceasefire that will last . that mean Hamas release hostage , but also no long be able to threaten Israel with rocket attack and other form of terrorism . in the meantime , we will do everything we can to get more aid into Gaza . it be obvious that the long the conflict in Gaza go on , the more innocent civilian casualty there will be and the great the risk of wide escalation in the region . be it not the case that if the UK be to be see as an honest broker , the Prime Minister , as well as rightly condemn Hamas , need to call out Israel for clear breach of humanitarian law and call for an immediate ceasefire ? with actor such as China now call for an international conference to set a timetable for a two - state solution , would it not be well if the UK be do something constructive to get that two - state solution in place ? we continue to call for international humanitarian law to be respect and for civilian to be protect . too many civilian have be kill and , as I have make clear , Israel should do more to ensure that its campaign be target on Hamas leader and their operative . Farea Al - Muslimi , a research fellow at Chatham House , have argue that the attack on Yemen will have the opposite effect of instigate a widened Houthi campaign , include attack on US and UK installation across the arabian peninsula . if the Houthi operation continue as they have do in the last couple of day , and if the UK and US military response persist , what be the endgame ? how much death and destruction be this country risk if we do not prioritise the cessation of military action not only in Yemen and the Red sea but , crucially , in Gaza , the west bank and Israel ? the hon . Lady talk about the cessation of military action in the Red sea , but it be the Houthis who be conduct illegal strike on civilian shipping . to do nothing in the face of that would be to weaken our security and leave british interest and life at risk . we have see from early event in Iraq , Libya and elsewhere that military intervention by the United Kingdom and United States have result in destabilisation and subsequent civil war , with massive loss of civilian life . what , if any , diplomatic effort be the Prime Minister make to prevent this from happen in Yemen ? as I have point out , 14 country sign a statement early this year call on the Houthis to desist from what they be do and say that there would be consequence , and we have have a UN Security Council resolution condemn Houthi activity and note the right of state to act in self - defence . that be what we do : we act in a proportionate and necessary way follow the direct threat to UK vessel and therefore to the UK itself . many people be deeply worried about the escalation of hostility and the grow instability across the region . there must be an accelerated determination to bring about an urgently need ceasefire in Gaza and hostage release . if the bombing do not deter the awful action of the Houthi rebel , what be the Prime Minister ' s plan b ? as I have say , in all case there be a risk of inaction in the face of attack on civilian life and british interest , and it would have be wrong to do nothing . there have be extensive diplomatic activity and this military action be limited , proportionate , necessary and in self - defence . I believe that that be the right course of action , and to do nothing would have be wrong . the Prime Minister rightly say that we must condemn the Houthis and their illegal strike on innocent civilian to protect the rule of law , so will he also condemn Israel ' s illegal strike against innocent civilian , include 10 , 000 dead child , to protect the self - same rule of law ? as I have say repeatedly , we be deeply concerned about the devastating impact of the fighting in Gaza on the civilian population . too many people have lose their life already and there be a desperate need to increase humanitarian support to Gaza . that be what we be do , as well as call on Israel to abide by international humanitarian law and do everything it can to protect civilian life . there be great conflict in the middle east now than there have be for many year — in Lebanon , Syria and Iraq , as well as in Yemen , Israel and Palestine — much of it stoke by hostile actor . the Prime Minister have tell we what his military response be , but what specific diplomatic initiative be he pursue to promote Britain ' s historic role to achieve peace in the middle east ? the hon . Gentleman will know that I be one of the first foreign leader to visit the region after the attack , and I meet all the leader from across the region , include all the arab state and President Abbas from the Palestinian Authority . we be work with they to make sure they have the capability for a post - gaza future and on how good to deliver that , as well as work with other arab partner on increase the supply of aid and to work towards a more peaceful long - term future . the Prime Minister be right to point to the consequence for all our constituent of the Houthis ' direct attack on shipping . he be also right to talk about the danger of inaction , but can I add my voice to those who have point to our inaction in this place towards the Islamic Revolutionary Guard ? we now see the malign hand of Iran throughout the middle east , create situation after situation . do the Prime Minister not think the time have come to proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist organisation ? we do not comment on proscription decision , but I agree with the hon . Lady that the behaviour of the iranian regime , include the irgc , pose a significant threat to the safety and security of the UK and our ally . that be why we have sanction over 400 individual , include the irgc in its entirely . we have pass new law such as the National Security Act to give we the power we need to keep we safe , and we will continue to work closely with ally to make sure we implement the most effective way of reduce Iran ' s malign influence in the region . the Prime Minister have emphasise throughout this urgent statement that our action be not an act of escalation , but surely the key determinant of that be how it be perceive by force in the middle east and by the wide arab population . Saudi Arabia , Turkey , Jordan and Egypt — country we would not describe as anti - western in any way — have all express vary degree of concern . be the Prime Minister not worry that many of the key player in the region view the military action as escalatory ? I do not believe that we can outsource our foreign policy to the perception in other country . we should recognise the risk of inaction . to do nothing , as I say , would be to weaken international security and the rule of law . it would far damage freedom of navigation and the global economy , include for british family . crucially , to do nothing would send a dangerous message that british vessel , british interest and british life be fair game . that would be completely unacceptable , which be why it be right that we act . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement and for respond to question for five minute short of two hour . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . in line with the House ' s rule , I inform the Member in question that I would be reference he . in the statement , the hon . member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) imply that I have give a " free pass " to the terrorist who carry out the 7 October attack . that claim be grotesquely untrue . my question to the Prime Minister in no way have that implication . I be call for de - escalation in the region and for an immediate ceasefire , so the hon . Gentleman ' s accusation be absolutely untrue . in this House and elsewhere , I have repeatedly condemn the action of Hamas and call for the release of all hostage . moreover , his gross accusation play to a racist trope by imply that , because I be a Muslim , I support Hamas . with rise Islamophobia and racist trope ask british Muslims to prove their loyalty , Mr Deputy Speaker , may I ask you for guidance on how to get a full retraction and an apology from the hon . member for Brigg and Goole ? far to that point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . as loth as I be to engage in this silliness , let I be absolutely clear to the hon . Lady that not only do I not reference she , but I have on numerous occasion — [ interruption . ] if she will listen to my response , I have say on numerous occasion that too many people have fail to call out what I think be unacceptable behaviour . I have say that before , and I be not go to stop say that , on occasion , I think people have give a free pass to this behaviour and have not deal with it with a fair hand . that be an open point of debate . I have call out people on my own side for that — [ interruption . ] will she listen to I ? it have absolutely nothing to do with this . I do not want to engage in this silliness , but I say to the hon . Lady that I have absolutely no intention of imply that she be any way — [ interruption . ] let I respond . I have no intention of imply that she in any way support that . I be sure she do not , I do not say that and I would never say it . however , I be also not go to not say what I think in this House or to stop call people out . on this issue , I think too many people in this place be give a free pass to one side while not acknowledge the horror that the other side suffer . I will allow that , on both side , to stand on the record . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I seek your guidance on the parliamentary convention regard the deployment of UK armed force for armed conflict . the Prime Minister will have hear the consternation from across the House about mp have a say on this deployment of troop in the Red sea . there be a convention , forge in the fire of the Iraq war debate , that this House should have its say in advance of any military action . that be confirm on the Floor of the House in 2011 — under the then Prime Minister , now the Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron — when the then Leader of the House say : " we propose to observe that convention except when there be an emergency and such action would not be appropriate . " — [ Official Report , 10 March 2011 ; Vol . 524 , c . 1066 . ] we be tell for week that these strike be about to happen , so this be not an emergency . the Prime Minister mention a process in 2015 , which I presume be to do with Iraq . however , in that justification , which again be give on the Floor of the House , the Minister say that it be not military action . in fact , it be only the 2018 lack of vote and debate that be the aberration since 2002 . so my question be this : do this Prime Minister observe that convention ? what be the guidance for this House ? what be the process to ensure that we can hold the Government to account on this matter , which should have urgent consideration ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her point of order and for advance notice of it . since 2011 , the Government have recognise the convention that before troop be commit this House should have an opportunity to debate the matter . the Government have undertake , in the Cabinet manual and in statement to this House , to observe that convention , except when there be an emergency and such action would not be appropriate . it be for the Government to explain to the House why prior parliamentary authorisation be not appropriate in this case . as she will have hear , the Prime Minister be ask directly by the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) about pre - authorisation and the House hear his response to that question . Bill Presented Airports ( prohibition of Night Flights ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sarah Olney , support by John McDonnell , Andy Slaughter , Munira Wilson , Christine Jardine , Dr Rupa Huq and Ed Davey , present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on the merit of prohibit schedule flight from land or take off between the hour of 11 pm and 6 am . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June , and to be print ( Bill 78 ) . the Speaker ' s Absence Ordered , that the Speaker have leave of absence on Tuesday 16 January to attend the memorial service of the right honourable the Baroness Boothroyd , former Speaker of this House . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill ( Instruction ) Bill to be consider in Committee before the House resolve itself into Committee , I draw member ' attention to the instruction motion on the Order Paper , in the name of Sir Jeffrey Donaldson , to allow the Committee to make provision for the whole of the United Kingdom . the motion be subject to selection by the Chair , and the Speaker have decide to select it . I call Sammy Wilson to move the motion . I beg to move , that it be an instruction to the Committee on the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill , that the Committee have leave to make provision for the whole of the United Kingdom . first , let I thank Mr Speaker for select this motion , and the Clerk for the help and advice that have be give . the reason for table the motion be that the Bill , as it make clear , apply only to the export of animal from Great Britain and do not include Northern Ireland , so an important piece of animal welfare legislation will not apply to the whole of the United Kingdom . a significant part of the UK will be exclude , because a significant number of animal export come from Northern Ireland . that exclusion be important , because the most likely source of export of animal that will suffer as a result of long journey be Northern Ireland . as a result of the exclusion of Northern Ireland from the Bill , animal can be take from Northern Ireland , export through the Irish Republic , take on a 23 - hour boat journey to the european mainland and then carry down to the south of Spain , France or far abroad . the degree of suffer that animal be likely to experience as a result of the exclusion of Northern Ireland from the Bill be very severe , yet the whole point of the Bill be to reduce animal suffering and ensure that live export , which could lead to animal suffering , do not happen . let I remind the House what that journey entail . in a letter from the previous Minister for Agriculture in Northern Ireland , I be inform that when animal be take from Northern Ireland on a 300 - odd mile journey through the Irish Republic to Rosslare , there be no necessity to feed they at that rest point . they could be put on a ship for a 23 - hour journey without be feed , and that still enable the exporter to comply with EU safety regulation . I put it to the House that if the Bill be about reduce suffering for animal when it come to live export , then this be a huge gap that need to be close . the Minister be likely to tell we that there be a number of reason why this can not be do . the first reason be that if we include Northern Ireland , a substantial number of export from Northern Ireland to the Irish Republic — and there be substantial export — would be affect . if this instruction be accept , there would be an opportunity for the House to consider an amendment , in the name of my party colleague , to restrict the export of animal to the main destination in the Republic of Ireland only , so it would not affect that trade . however , that amendment can not be consider unless this instruction be take by the House and Northern Ireland be include in the scope of the Bill . the Minister be likely to argue that that would be contrary to World Trade Organisation rule and so there be no point even propose such an amendment , but the Government should be test this area , because even under WTO rule , exception can be make . trade with certain country or region can be exclude on the basis of the impact on animal health and welfare . when test , it might well be that the rule will prove ineffective , but at least by include Northern Ireland in the Bill and accept the amendment , which can subsequently be debate by the House and vote on , that exception can be test . the first argument — that there be no point do this because any subsequent amendment could not work — be not true . the second argument — that it would stop export to the Irish Republic — can be deal with . another argument that the Minister have not use to date — I do not know whether it be because he do not feel it be politic , or because he do not believe it be important — be that under the Northern Ireland protocol and the Windsor framework , certain law make in this House can not apply to Northern Ireland . accord to the EU , the reason for that be to safeguard the EU single market and ensure that no damage be do to it . I do not see how anyone could argue that the export of live animal from Northern Ireland to the EU single market damage the EU single market . it do not stand to reason . even though this be an unusual procedure , there be no reason why Northern Ireland can not be include in the Bill . I point out to the Minister that , less than a year ago , this House accept , without Division , a similar instruction in relation to D á ith í ' s law on the transfer of organ for health reason . it do so because there be support for it in Northern Ireland . I be not aware of any political party in Northern Ireland that would oppose the inclusion of Northern Ireland in the animal welfare legislation go through the House tonight . I promise Mr Speaker that I would be brief , so I will conclude soon . I ask the Minister to accept this motion without Division . there be a logic to this . the Government have an objective of protect the welfare of animal . a gap have be identify , and that gap can be close . the inclusion of Northern Ireland in the Bill would reinforce the Government ' s claim that Northern Ireland be fully part of the United Kingdom . here be an opportunity for the Minister and the Government to show that that be the case . by include Northern Ireland in this legislation , we can protect the welfare of animal , which will be subject to extreme suffering as a result of be export all across the European Union . I hope that the whole House will accept that there be absolutely no case for exclude Northern Ireland on constitutional ground , on the ground of animal welfare , or on the ground of the objective that this Government have set themselves to protect animal welfare . I hope that the House will accept this instruction without any opposition , so that Northern Ireland ' s place within the United Kingdom will be recognise , animal welfare will be protect , and the Government ' s objective will be achieve for every part of the United Kingdom . the Minister have indicate that he would like to respond to the instruction at the end , so I will call he and any other Front - Bench speaker before then . I , too , will be very brief on this matter . I have enormous sympathy for this motion of instruction . just for the record , while we do actually suggest a motion of instruction on D á ith í ' s law , it do not actually come to that point , because the Secretary of State intervene beforehand in a very sensible way . we must recognise that Northern Ireland be part of a different legal framework and also a different context , particularly in relation to the large - scale movement on the island of Ireland . indeed , the Ulster Farmers Union , no less , have make representation on the need to treat the issue on the island of Ireland differently from what be happen in Great Britain . we also appreciate that the DUP wish to table an amendment to make an exemption for movement on the island of Ireland . the difficulty be that , if we end up with a situation where this be not address at a European Union level , we will simply see re - exportation involve company base in the Republic of Ireland , which will defeat the purpose that we be try to achieve . for this matter to be address , the answer really lie at EU level , with the Northern Ireland Assembly — hopefully restore — have a pivotal role in that regard and work very closely with local stakeholder , include the Ulster Farmers Union and local animal welfare organisation . I be conscious that the European Union be actively consider the issue . perhaps I could ask the Secretary of State , when he respond , to comment on what step the UK Government could take to support those wide effort within Europe — I appreciate that , at least for now , we be not part of the EU — and how that can well be take forward . it be fair to say that the people of Northern Ireland care as deeply about animal welfare as our colleague elsewhere in the UK , but we have to find a bespoke solution that address our very particular circumstance . we therefore have to proceed in that light . I appreciate that there be complication here , which require more work to be do . thank you very much . it be a pleasure to speak on this issue , which I have be watch carefully for some time . I declare an interest as a member of the Ulster Farmers Union and as a landowner . discourage by the fact that the Bill be not UK wide , my party have table amendment , which as my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) say , we trust the Government will accept . it be essential that animal welfare protection rule be UK wide . my constituent feel incredibly strongly about this issue . as my right hon . friend have say , even with the EU ' s tentacle wrap around the issue , a Bill that be design solely to enhance animal welfare should still apply to Northern Ireland . our amendment to protect Northern Ireland and its citizen should be accept . the Minister and I , and other present , be on the same page on Brexit , and we both seek the same Brexit . unfortunately , the Bill ' s not be UK wide indicate that we be not recipient of the same Brexit . I know that the Minister appreciate our circumstance and why we table the amendment . for some , the search for an elusive " good of both world " for the framework highlight only that Northern Ireland be leave with no legislator provide protection for animal . I be not sure which person be prepared to wash their hand of that responsibility . have look through my mailbox , I be not prepared , and nor be my party , to allow Northern Ireland to be omit without challenge . this House be where legislative change happen and where the protection must be enshrine . as be well know in this place , I represent the constituency of Strangford — a combination of urban and rural community . as such , the impact on farmer be of great interest to I . it must be at the heart of all Government policy . the comment of the Ulster Farmers Union and the National Farmers Union be clear . I understand that the Minister will visit Northern Ireland shortly , and I suspect that these issue might become part of the conversation . I understand that his visit be suppose to take place this week , but other commitment prevent that . we look forward to welcome he to my constituency and to that of my hon . friend the Member for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) . when our farmer be expect , rightly , to implement a high standard of animal welfare , it be essential that nation without such a priority be not allow to undercut we in trade negotiation . that should be bind policy . will our farmer be protect ? will there be difficulty , and undercutting , in trade negotiation ? those be key issue for my neighbour . I live in the middle of a farming community , among those who be involve in dairy , beef and sheep farming . the Government have be quick to rectify difference in legislation between Northern Ireland and the GB mainland on matter — the Minister will know these example ; I be not point the finger — such as abortion , relationship and sex education teaching , the irish language , and D á ith í ' s law . the latter be accept by we all , while the first three example be oppose by my party , yet the Government seem content for divergence on this Bill , which concern change that affect each part of the United Kingdom . I struggle to understand that . I be a tad flabbergast that on incredibly personal moral issue the Government can and will step in , yet in the realm of animal welfare they be content for two set of rule to remain in place . for the reason I outline , perhaps that too can be explain . it be essential that the legislation introduce a high quality of animal welfare for the entire United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , so I respectfully , humbly and sincerely say to the Government that our amendment would make we all equally subject to the law , as we should be . I ask the House to secure animal welfare standard throughout the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . I be a great believer — I have say this many time — that we be always well together . I say that to everybody , especially my colleague from Scotland , because I really believe in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . I believe that it be where we want to be , but we want to have the same law . I want to be as british as the Minister . at this moment in time , I do not believe that I be . I rise to support the instruction table by my colleague and I . Northern Ireland ' s industry take the welfare of all animal seriously , and I have never shirk from enhance the welfare condition of animal , whether on the farm or be transport . both be of high standard , and I know that our farming industry would refute any suggestion that the standard apply to live animal export from Northern Ireland be substandard . however , there be always room and a desire , from both our farming community and the general public , to enhance our animal welfare standard , which be a priority across the United Kingdom . if we remove a pathway for the fattening and slaughter of animal bear on these island , it be absolutely vital that the Government support investment in that aspect of the agri - food industry to increase capacity within that element of our food supply chain . farmer be look with suspicion at the direction of travel , which seem to want to drive down production in the UK through legislation that restrict element of our supply chain , while at the same time we seek out trade agreement with third country where animal welfare standard be barely an afterthought . on consistency , there be food for thought for the House and the Government . to most people , our instruction be a simple ask : to see the law make for GB apply to Northern Ireland in relation to live animal export , while allow the common - sense essential provision for ongoing transit of animal to the Irish Republic . I note the comment by the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) , and I believe they to be disingenuous as our amendment actually cover export to the Republic of Ireland . it be for this House to determine the rule for live animal export pertain to Northern Ireland , as we be part of the United Kingdom and this matter be not devolve . we be always tell , " this be a devolved issue . let the Northern Ireland Assembly decide on it . " the matter be not devolve and , as I have say , animal welfare be a priority for so many . this be our Parliament , yet the Government appear content to allow those with no democratic mandate to determine law within a part of the UK . the Windsor framework and protocol leave we a place apart . I urge the Minister to accept , without a Division , this simple ask , which would allow we to stay aligned with the rest of the United Kingdom . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak briefly in the debate on the instruction . I should be clear at the outset that I do not intend to detain the House any long than be need , but I think it be important to say a few word on the instruction . the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) be rightly proud of Northern Ireland ' s history and heritage within our United Kingdom , and he will find no disagreement from Labour on that . I reassure he that I hear his concern clearly and have a great deal of sympathy with the substance of his point . as we consider the instruction before the House , I want to be clear that this be an important Bill , and a Bill that would be strengthen by the amendment in my name on the Order Paper . the issue it pertain to are long overdue for attention and action . there be not often much agreement between Labour and the Government , but we agree on this . labour will not be able to support the instruction in the name of the right hon . member for East Antrim , because if we accept the instruction and the follow - through of its intent , we would put the United Kingdom Government at risk of breach World Trade Organisation rule and guideline , and that be not a situation we can be in . however much we may want to play politic , we need to put the people and trade of this country first , along with the Good Friday agreement . I accept that the democratic Unionists will be frustrate if the instruction be not approve by the House and that , without it , they will not be able to secure the change they want , but give the nature of the situation , the instruction simply will not work at this time and on this issue . therefore , if push to a Division , Labour will oppose it . the instruction would need to be agree if we be to consider certain amendment table by the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) in Committee of the whole House . I be enormously sympathetic to his plight and argument . I be grateful to he for meet I privately last week to discuss his proposal , which seek to add Northern Ireland to the territorial scope of the Bill . in effect , his proposal be that the ban on livestock export for slaughter would apply on a UK - wide basis , rather than gb - wide . there be a crucial difference , as he be aware , between Northern Ireland and the rest of the UK with respect to the movement of livestock . farmer in Northern Ireland routinely move animal to the Republic of Ireland for slaughter and fattening . indeed , in 2022 , around 3 , 500 cattle , 17 , 000 pig and 337 , 000 sheep be move in that way . the Bill must not jeopardise the access that northern irish farmer have to the Republic . that be a point on which I hope the right hon . Gentleman and I agree , as all hon . member across the House would . his aim be to create a target exemption to the expand ban : the prohibition would not apply to slaughter movement with an end destination in the Republic of Ireland . unfortunately , that proposal be not an option that be available to we . that be because a range of international agreement and their core principle , include WTO rule , prevent discrimination against different country in that way . give that such a carve - out be not possible , extend the Bill to Northern Ireland would end all livestock export for slaughter and fattening from Northern Ireland , include to the Republic of Ireland , and that be why the Bill be draft in that respect on its territorial extent . the Minister know that eight exception be list by the WTO where it be possible to target trade intervention , and one of they be on the basis of animal health . do he accept that take animal from the north of Northern Ireland through the whole island of Ireland , on a 24 - hour boat journey to southern France or southern Spain without food , risk animal health and be therefore an exception that we should at least be test with the WTO , but we can not do that if we do not accept the instruction ? as the right hon . Gentleman know from our discussion last week , I be enormously sympathetic to his view but , as he will be aware , those movement from the Republic of Ireland to the continent of Europe be a matter for the European Union . that be what we hear from the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) . my understanding be that the EU be look at some of those rule as we speak . that is , of course , a matter for the Republic of Ireland and the EU , and we can not in this House legislate for other nation . if we be to transpose " Republic of Ireland " and " Belgium " , for example , other nation would challenge completely one nation be favour above other . we could not say , " we win ' t export animal for fatten or slaughter to anywhere in the world , apart from Belgium . " that would be challenge instantly by the international trade body , and we would lose in court — that be the legal advice I have be give — so the Government be not in a position to put forward legislation that we know be not legally sound . I be enormously sympathetic to the view of the right hon . member for East Antrim and , of course , I agree with he . I do not want to see sheep and cattle move from Belfast all the way to Madrid . that be not what we want to see happen , but we do not have the power to stop that at this moment . that be why it be critical that we protect the northern irish economy . extend livestock export from Northern Ireland in that way would be devastating if we be to stop they move to the Republic . I understand his desire for a modify ban to apply in Northern Ireland . however , it be just not possible under our international obligation , and make such a provision for the whole of the United Kingdom in this Bill be not appropriate at this time . I therefore appeal to he , respectfully and hopefully , to find a way to withdraw his motion , in the knowledge that we have enormous sympathy for his position . have listen intently to the Minister and to my friend on the Opposition Benches , and have serve in Northern Ireland as a Minister and in other role , my question be this : what be to stop — as we be try to do — the live transportation of animal for slaughter go from Great Britain to Northern Ireland and then go on ? we be not prevent something that we be try to prevent . I know the legal advice , but sometimes minister have to challenge the legal advice . I be not say that the legal advice be right or wrong , but sometimes it have to be challenge . it clearly do not make sense if we can move animal around inside Great Britain and transport they to Northern Ireland , and then say to Northern Ireland , " you can ' t adhere to the rule in the rest in the United Kingdom . " do not get I wrong , I be very supportive of this Bill , and I do not want to jeopardise it in any shape or form , but there seem to be a conflict of interest between what we be try to do as a Government and what we be succeed in do , which be alienate the farmer of Northern Ireland . I be grateful for that intervention . it be important , first , to remember that we be talk only about animal be export for either fatten or for slaughter . under the phytosanitary rule of the island of Ireland , the movement of cattle , sheep or pig from England to Northern Ireland will then incur a 30 - day standstill within Northern Ireland before they can be move to the Republic . that make it not commercially viable to use that route to get to slaughter or to fatten . I hope that colleague will understand with sympathy our frustration that we be unable to extend the rule to Northern Ireland . do the Minister agree that the ban on use the Great Britain land bridge for live export be one of the way this Bill will provide big barrier to live export continue from Northern Ireland ? my right hon . friend be right in that live export from Northern Ireland to the Republic will be able to continue ; that be good for the northern irish agricultural economy and we do not want to stop that trade . however , this Bill , when we get to debate the actual Bill , be about stop those long journey from GB into continental Europe . we have not see those since Brexit , but we want to ensure that they can not return in the near future . would the Minister term the conundrum pose by the Democratic Unionist party as one of the Brexit benefit that the Government have so often extoll the virtue of ? this Bill be genuinely a Brexit benefit : we be able to take control of our port within GB and stop the live export of animal for slaughter or for fatten . that be a genuine Brexit benefit and one that I hope we can now start to debate . I hope the right hon . member for East Antrim will withdraw his motion . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the motion . motion , by leave , withdraw . Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill consider in Committee [ relevant document : First Report of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee of Session 2021 - 22 , move animal across border , HC 79 ; and the Government response , HC 986 . ] [ Mr Nigel Evans in the Chair ] clause 1 - prohibition of export of livestock for slaughter I beg to move amendment 2 , page 1 , line 16 , after " goat , " insert " ( da ) alpaca , " . this amendment would add alpaca to the definition of livestock cover by the Bill . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : amendment 3 , page 1 , line 16 , after " goat , " insert " ( da ) deer , " . this amendment would add deer to the definition of livestock cover by the Bill . amendment 4 , page 1 , line 16 , after " goat , " insert " ( da ) llama , " . this amendment would add llama to the definition of livestock cover by the Bill . amendment 1 , page 1 , line 17 , at end insert " ( f ) reindeer . " this amendment add reindeer to the definition of " relevant livestock " . amendment 5 , page 2 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 7a ) an appropriate national authority may by regulation extend the list of ' relevant livestock ' in subsection ( 4 ) . ( 7b ) ' appropriate national authority ' in relation to the power under subsection ( 7a ) , mean — ( a ) in relation to livestock keep in England , the Secretary of State ; ( b ) in respect of livestock keep in Scotland , the Scottish Ministers ; ( c ) in respect of livestock keep in Wales , the Welsh Ministers . ( 7C ) the Secretary of State may not make a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 7a ) unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before , and approve by a resolution of , each House of Parliament . ( 7d ) Regulations make by the Scottish Ministers under subsection ( 7a ) be subject to the affirmative procedure ( see section 29 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ) . ( 7E ) the Welsh Ministers may not make a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 7a ) unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before , and approve by a resolution of , Senedd Cymru . " this amendment would allow the appropriate national authority to extend , by statutory instrument subject to the affirmative procedure , the list of livestock specie which may not be export for slaughter . clause stand part . clause 2 to 7 stand part . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak from the Opposition Benches on the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill . we have table amendment inspire by labour ' s track record of deliver on animal welfare , from end the testing of cosmetic product on animal and stop the cruelty of fur farming to crack down on horrific hunting practice . they allow we to compare our record with that of this Conservative Government and their shameful failure . they have bottle their manifesto promise to end the import of hunt trophy and crack down on puppy farming , to name just two of their animal welfare failure . as I indicate on Second Reading , Labour welcome this legislation , but we regret that it have take so long to bring this unnecessarily cruel trade to an end . we will seek through our amendment to make the Bill as fit for the future as possible . it will be no surprise to the public that Labour be the party of animal welfare . before turn to the amendment in my name and those of my hon . friend the Members for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) , for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) and for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) , I would like to acknowledge and thank the many campaigner and stakeholder watch these proceeding for their hard work , campaigning and commitment . our amendment do not seek to delay the Bill or to put the Government off do anything at all . Labour want to make this Bill as strong and purposeful as possible and see it sign into law at the early opportunity . the Tories have take a weak approach to animal welfare in recent year , from pull Bills that be mean to be debate in this place to cave in to the extremist on their Back Benches . the Labour party have long call for a ban on live export for fattening and slaughter from and through Great Britain . why do my hon . friend think the Government have take so long to bring in this Bill and why do she think they scrap the Kept Animals Bill ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . I be not sure I know the answer to those question , and I would be grateful if the Minister answer they in his wind - up speech . the delay have be too long , as my hon . Friend say , and for too long animal have continue to suffer unnecessarily . that be why amendment 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 be necessary and I be delighted to speak in support of they today . the Minister will know that the export of live animal from the UK grow substantially during the 1960 and 1970 . live sheep export range between 85 , 000 to 411 , 000 from the 1960 to the 1980 . at the same time beef and veal , include live export , increase from approximately 65 , 000 in the early 1970s to nearer 200 , 000 in the 1980 , and live pig export rise dramatically from 30 , 000 to 60 , 000 in the 1970 , peak at 619 , 000 in 1982 . those dramatic rise and the pattern we have see more recently make amendment 2 , 3 and 4 more important . they be probe and preventive in equal measure . the amendment force we to think about the macro picture face we and highlight a major inadequacy in this bill : minister have choose to list the specie cover by this legislation on the face of the Bill . we agree and support cover the list specie , but what happen when they be ban ? where will those seek to profit from the live export of animal look next ? with apology for the pun , Mr Evans , which specie and which animal will be move up the pecking order ? amendment 2 , 3 and 4 , like amendment 1 in the name of the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , which we support , would help to force Ministers to take up and recognise a comprehensive , big - picture approach — not a race to the bottom to get the bare minimum over the line and no more of a Government simply want an easy life . we will demonstrate to our constituent , from Newport West to Northampton North and from Epping Forest to Erewash , that this Parliament take animal welfare seriously and we have a plan to get thing right . I turn now to amendment 5 in my name and those of my colleague . this important amendment would allow the appropriate national authority to extend , by statutory instrument subject to the affirmative procedure , the list of livestock specie that may not be export for slaughter . as clause 1 of the Bill set out , the prohibition on live export would currently apply to calf , sheep , pig , wild boar , goat and equine . while those be historically the main farm animal group subject to live export for slaughter , it be not an exclusive list , and other animal could potentially be export live from GB . it be also the case that a lack of historical precedent for a particular animal be not a guarantee that live export will not take place in future , especially as UK livestock farming continue to evolve . that be why we must be vigilant and take whatever preventive measure we can , which we have a unique opportunity to do today with amendment 5 . labour believe it reasonable for the Secretary of State and the devolved government in Holyrood and Cardiff Bay to have the power to extend the export ban to other specie if they feel that the science justify such a move . it may be that the power be never need , but it seem sensible to allow for the possibility that other specie may need to be add to the exclusion list in future , without the need for further primary legislation . amendment 5 would provide that power , enable the Secretary of State in England , and Ministers in Scotland and Wales , to add group of livestock to the Bill through a statutory instrument subject to the affirmative procedure . that would effectively future - proof the Bill and properly make it fit for purpose . I be proud to support the Bill and the Labour party ' s amendment to add deer , alpaca and llama to the livestock cover by the ban . however , I be conscious that the Government falter on end import of hunt trophy and shy away from crack down on puppy farming , so how can we ensure that the Bill will be properly enforce if our amendment be successful ? my new hon . friend be quite right : we must ensure that we future - proof the Bill today . I be not convince at the moment that the Government be completely sympathetic to all our amendment , which I find surprising . if the Minister be look for comparable example , a similar power exist in the Animal Welfare ( Sentience ) Act 2022 . section 5 ( 2 ) essentially state that , should the science materialise in sufficient strength to persuade the Secretary of State of the need to identify other animal as sentient being , other specie can be add to the legislation via secondary legislation . the suggest addition to this Bill would follow that precedent , and I urge the Minister to do the right thing by accept the amendment . if he do not want to do it for I , I hope that he will do it because the Minister who take the Animal Welfare ( Sentience ) Act through the House , the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds ( Jo Churchill ) , do exactly the same thing , for which I pay tribute to she . this simple , holistic measure could help to expedite the progression of the Bill through Parliament . would not that be a good thing for one and all ? I want the Minister to know that in table amendment 5 , I be try to be helpful . I hope that he will accept my help and amendment 5 . if the same principle be good for some animal welfare legislation , it have to be good for all animal welfare legislation . let I turn to the other amendment before the Committee . I have already indicate that amendment 1 — rather like my amendment 2 , 3 and 4 — will do important work and would have the support of the Labour party if push to a vote . today we be seek to amend the Bill to ban the live export of alpaca , llama and deer , and to ensure that specie can be add to the legislation at a later date . it be about future - proof the legislation and make it fit for purpose . amendment 5 be important . I note today a very interesting piece in the Telegraph , of which I know the Minister be an avid reader , talk about constituency - lead multi - level regression and post - stratification polling carry out in September 2023 . it find that more than two third of the british public feel that a political party that announce plan to pass more law design to improve animal welfare and protect animal from cruelty would have the right priority . I hope that the Minister will accept our amendment , or , if not , be as detailed as possible in explain his excuse . the people of this country be cry out for change and for a Government with the right priority . if the Tories can not deliver that , they should get out of the way , because we can . I be delighted that the strong cross - party support for the Bill be evident in the Chamber this evening . we all want to end live export . after the disappointment of the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , it be hearten to see the rapid progress that this new Bill be make through the House . the early Bill be blight by a range of opposition amendment on other issue that be not relevant to the core problem of prevent animal from suffer in long - distance transportation . I welcome the fact that the amendment table for today be less controversial and more specific to the matter that the Bill seek to address . I would certainly like to see the ban on live export apply to Northern Ireland , but I be also very much aware of the need to comply with international trade rule . animal be routinely move across the border into the south for slaughter . those be essentially local movement , so they do not give rise to the same animal welfare concern as long - distance transportation and export . prevent those north - to - south movement entirely would be problematic , but find a way to legislate to allow those export to the Republic of Ireland to continue while stop all other from the UK be not straightforward , particularly as the most favoured nation principle mean that whatever trade benefit we give to one country outside of a formal trade agreement should generally be offer to all trading partner . I accept that there be exception to that , some of which include public concern and ethical consideration , but it be a problem that be not easy to solve . it be not just the Windsor framework stand in the way of apply this new law to Northern Ireland , but the Committee should recognise that the ban on use Britain as a land bridge for such export be likely to make they pretty difficult to continue in practice . I hope that the question of Northern Ireland be one to which we can return on a future date as part of wide reform to address the inadequacy of the Windsor framework , so that the Bill can genuinely apply across the board . I would certainly like to hear from Ministers whether we can take action to prevent any re - export of UK animal from the Republic of Ireland . for the moment , however , as much as I understand and sympathise with the point make by the DUP this evening , the priority must be to get the Bill in statute as the good mean to prevent the resumption of transport of live animal to continental Europe for slaughter . Mr Deputy Speaker , with a few honourable exception , the Labour party do everything it could to thwart Brexit and prevent the referendum result from be respect . time and again , Labour mp stand up and demand a second referendum , or they want we lock forever in the regulatory orbit of the EU , apply its single market rule without any say over they . if Labour have succeed , we would not be have this debate today . the trade in live export would have continue as it have for decade , protect by the European Court of Justice and single market rule . during the seemingly endless Brexit vote , there be many time when it feel as if Labour remainer would succeed in stop Brexit . the current the Leader of the Opposition be among the most vocal on that . it feel as if the power of the remain - support establishment would be too strong , but people in this country hold out . the 2019 election result send a clear signal that they want we to get Brexit do . thank to that decisive result , and the exit treaty that it enable the Government to negotiate , we can now finally make our own decision over our own law in this country , include on animal welfare and live export . the right to be govern only by law make by the people whom we elect to this Parliament , and whom we can hold to account , be hard win over century . now that it have be restore to we , let we use it to improve protection for vulnerable sentient creature who have no means to defend themselves from cruel treatment . the fact that we rear million of animal for food mean that we have a special responsibility to ensure the welfare of farm animal , which would not exist without our intervention . to let they be export over excessively long distance — subject to the stress , strain and suffer with which we be all so familiar — to jurisdiction with low standard , and poor compliance with such rule as do exist , mean fail to live up to that moral responsibility to those farm animal . we in this country have some of the most extensive legal protection for animal of any country in the world , as well as a domestic farming sector that be commit to the high standard of animal welfare . that reflect this country ' s long - stand recognition of the importance of animal welfare , which date back to before the victorian era . it be not just the anti - slavery campaign that motivate William Wilberforce ; it be also the need to protect animal , as he be one of the founder member of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals , when it be set up in 1824 . Mr Deputy Speaker , today allow we to use our new Brexit freedom in a really positive way : to continue our country ' s long - hold mission to prevent cruelty to animal , implement a change for which our constituent have be call for many year , and ensure that the animal we produce in this country retain the protection of the law we make in this country . along with other in this House , I have champion reform in this area for many year — as an MEP , a Secretary of State , and a Back Bencher . I strongly urge hon . member to support the Bill in the Division Lobby this evening , so that we can end live export once and for all . I remind hon . member that the occupant of this Chair be act not as Deputy Speaker , but as Chair of the Committee of the whole House — I do try , but anyway , we all now know . thank you , Chair . this be an issue that I be personally passionate about — I have speak on animal welfare issue from both the Back Benches and the Opposition Front Bench many time since come to this place six year ago . I be very pleased that Labour Front Benchers be support the Bill , but recognise the need to strengthen its provision and for the protection of animal welfare to go much far . all animal deserve protection . I know two thing about the british public : one , they be disappointed that it have take we so long to get to this point ; and two , they want to see much more . where be the ban on keep primate as pet ? where be the foie gras ban ? where be the action on puppy smuggling , and why have the trophy hunting ban not go through as an Act ? the Bill be long overdue . in the 2019 general election , the conservative party include this prohibition and many other animal welfare policy in its manifesto . five year have pass , and we have have setback after setback . maybe that reflect the number of Prime Ministers we have have over that period and their vary view on animal welfare , but this be the last in a series of delay that be be put right . last year , when I be a Front Bencher , I be hugely disappoint that the Government abandon the keep animal Bill . when I be at the Dispatch Box try to bring that Bill back , they even vote against a number of their own policy . the british public will not forget . maybe the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be different now , but the Minister be the same Minister who oppose we on that occasion . how many animal have needlessly suffer because of this delay ? there be victim here — it be not a victimless delay . it take a private member ' s Bill introduce by the hon . member for Guildford ( Angela Richardson ) to tackle animal exploitation in the wild tourism industry , a measure that we all support . the approach of the Government for a whole year , which they now seem to have abandon , be to try to achieve animal welfare improvement through private member ' Bills . I be glad that we be now back to have Government Bills on these issue , but where be the animal abroad Bill ? order . just to help the hon . member , could he refer to the amendment or new clause that he be address ? his speech sound awfully like a second read speech . thank you , Chair . I will come to those now . the amendment in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) include a number of provision to extend the scope of the Bill . I want to say a little bit about alpaca , which I believe be deal with in amendment 2 . in my constituency , I have see a growth in alpaca farming . there be alpaca in Cookridge in my constituency , on the way to Leeds Bradford airport ; Meanwood Valley urban farm , which be just over the border in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East ( Fabian Hamilton ) , have alpaca ; and , on Queensway in Yeadon , I recently spot a number of alpaca in a field . this be clearly an area of expansion in the british farming industry , but there be also now quite a lot of alpaca breeding , so there be no need to export live alpaca to this country , because there be sufficient depth of alpaca farming to carry on that work . the same go for other animal , include llama and deer . we be overrun with deer ; we certainly do not need the export of they . be overrun with deer be usually a forestry issue . they be wild animal and be not cover by this Bill , and they be certainly not cover by these amendment . I thank the right hon . member . obviously , there be wild deer and deer farm for venison ; both type exist in this country . I do not want to hold up the debate for too long , so I will conclude . as my hon . friend the Member for Newport West say , the Labour party be the party of animal welfare — that be a strong priority for Labour . we have long call for a ban on live export for slaughter . every year , million of farm animal be at risk of face long - distance journey , include the new animal that we have table amendment to cover . amendment 5 aim to future - proof the Bill . particularly as the climate change , farming will change , and we need to be able to evolve and update the legislation as practice change . I support amendment 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 , which stand in the name of my hon . friend , and I hope to see the Bill go much far . I strongly welcome the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill . it be absolutely right that we ban the disgusting practice of live export for slaughter . we have drive it from Dover , and when the Bill become law , it will mean that it can not come back . that be fantastic news . this be an issue of great interest and impact for my constituency , because at the peak of that activity , we see 100 transportation through the port of Dover . excellent local campaigner , particularly Yvonne and Ian Birchall from Kent Action against live Exports , have work tirelessly over decade to get we to this position , and I congratulate they on that . they have be very diligent in keep I and many member from across the House inform of the pernicious activity involve in this particularly despicable trade , but I have never hear they mention a concern about reindeer , which be deal with in the amendment table by the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) . I will come on to the other breed mention in the amendment that be before the Committee . this issue be still live in the constituency that I have the honour to represent . it come to the fore with the introduction of Irish Ferries , which become the third ferry provider into Dover a short time ago . I strongly welcome Irish Ferries to Dover , but when that company arrive , I have to seek assurance from it that it would not be engage in live export across the channel . the reason for that have be very well explore in the instruction debate : it be something that can and do happen in the island of Ireland . in relation to the land bridge issue , it be concern that a difference between part of our United Kingdom will continue to exist . it be unfortunate that a change as important as the one we be make today , which be enable by our Brexit freedom , throw fresh light on a gap that have be grow since the implementation of the Windsor framework . I would welcome the Minister ' s comment on the effectiveness of the road bridge , because we be legislate , which mean that this issue be important enough to legislate on . an answer that rely on a commercial solution suggest a weak position in relation to that land bridge than some of we would like to see . let I turn to the opposition ' s amendment 5 , table by the hon . member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) . I note that it seek to apply a regulatory extension — secondary legislation — for deer , llamas and alpaca in relation to this important issue . I be mindful that even the campaign group Compassion in World Farming have say in the last 48 hour that it be not aware of any activity that would fall into the fattening and slaughter definition we be look at today for those particular breed . the reason I draw this to the Minister ' s attention be the context of the comment he make about the World Trade Organisation and other international trading law to which the UK be subject . I pause at that point to repeat that those be law to which the UK as a whole be subject , not just Great Britain . do the Minister think that amendment 5 would be weak and more open to challenge than an amendment in primary legislation , as he be do in the Bill on the other specific breed ? it be important to address this point , because the House of Commons Library have confirm that the WTO issue — the application of international trading law and our domestic compliance with they — be open to challenge in relation to the primary legislation we be bring forward today . I would be grateful for the Minister ' s comment on the amendment before we , since it be of a different nature within the legislative framework and may be treat differently . in that context , I draw back to the remark I make about the assess risk or likelihood for these particular breed , because if this be just a theoretical or umbrella arrangement , the Minister may have a reflection on whether that be more or less likely to be challenge in relation to our international trading obligation . I strongly welcome the Bill . I be very pleased that it have get to this stage , and I look forward to the other stage be conclude rapidly . I think there be important issue to address in relation to the amendment before we , and I look forward to the Minister ' s comment . rise — Order . I remind the remain speaker that they should be focus on the amendment and clause . they should be speak to those , not make a second Reading debate speech . of course , my party table amendment to the Bill that can not be discuss and decide on because of the House ' s early decision about the instruction to include Northern Ireland in the scope of the Bill . we will support many of the amendment that have be table , because we believe that the scope of the Bill should be as wide as possible and that while it mention specific animal , there be other animal that may well be subject to export in the future . I do not know if those who table the amendment have note the irony of what we be discuss . this be a Bill to ban the export of live animal , and we be seek by various amendment to make sure that any other animal not name in the Bill can also be include . here be the irony : since 2020 , the area of the United Kingdom to which the Bill apply have not export any live animal ; the only part of the United Kingdom where there be substantial export of live animal be the part of the United Kingdom that be not include in this Bill . I do not know if people have notice the irony of that . in fact , I remember that at the time when there be criticism of the Government for not bring forward this legislation , one of their defence be that we have not have any live export . of course , we could have live export in the future , but the Bill address an issue that be not an issue for the area include in the scope of the Bill and it ignore the part of the United Kingdom where there be massive export . some speaker have say that at least the problem of export will be make a bit less of an issue because the land bridge be no long available for export from Northern Ireland to the rest of Europe . however , that be not the answer , because exporter will of course simply use a more circular and tortuous journey through the Irish Republic . I first become involved in this issue maybe 20 year ago when I be on a motorbike holiday through the Alps in France . I have not speak to anybody who could speak English for about two week , and I notice a lorry with a Northern Ireland registration number . I be a member of Belfast City Council at the time , and we have close our abattoir because the condition do not meet EU standard . I think , " there ' s somebody from Northern Ireland . I ' m go to follow that lorry , and when it stop , at least I ' ll have somebody I can talk to . " I think I would find somebody who could speak English and could understand my sort of English . I follow the lorry along a long and windy road through the Alps outside a town call Nyons , and it finally stop at an abattoir in a small village and unload its sheep . the sheep come from outside Ballymena , and the driver tell I they have come down through the Irish Republic , across the sea , through France and up into the Alps . that journey have take I on a motorbike — and not because I be go slow either — about three day , and these animal be be transfer to a slaughterhouse . because I be interested in the issue , I want to see what the slaughterhouse be like . we have close that slaughterhouse in Belfast , but the place to which these animal be be transfer for slaughter from Northern Ireland be like an outhouse of the slaughterhouse that we have close in Northern Ireland because it do not meet EU standard . that awake I to the issue , because I do not think that animal be transport such a distance . this Bill , even with the amendment that have be table , will still leave that route open . the objective that the Government be seek to achieve will not be achieve . it be ironic that we have a Bill about animal welfare that ignore the main source of concern about the transport of animal across the continent of Europe . I know what the Minister say about the challenge , but I wonder whether he have consider the challenge for this Bill under WTO rule , which the Library have highlight . there be a reason for not include Northern Ireland , but would he like to comment on the challenge that the Government anticipate may occur and what their response would be ? be they go to use the response of make exception ? lastly — I emphasise this in my speech early and other member have mention it — unlike the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) , who be not here , I be more concerned about the objective of the Bill of protect the welfare of animal than about protect the relationship we have , through the Windsor framework , with the EU . I find it disgraceful that someone who represent a constituency where I know there be large concern about animal welfare be more concerned about keep good relation with the EU than respect and deal with animal welfare consideration in the region with the big export of live animal in the United Kingdom . I wish the Bill well , and it may well be that without it there would be a return to live animal export . it may well be that it be address a problem that be not there in GB . it be there in Northern Ireland , but it be not go to be address . I hope there will not be a loophole , because unfortunately , as a result of the agreement that the Government have make with the EU in respect of Northern Ireland , even the hunt Trophies ( Import Prohibition ) Bill , which the hon . member for Crawley ( Henry Smith ) have spend so much time on , be in jeopardy of be circumvent , because the hunting trophy export could come through Northern Ireland and get into GB . that be one of the problem that need to be address , and it will not be address by this legislation , which will only exacerbate the difference between the part of the United Kingdom that I belong to and the rest of the United Kingdom . the right hon . Gentleman have be speak eloquently this evening on two important principle that I hope every Member of the House will support : the principle of the Union of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the principle of end suffer through improve animal welfare . while I be sorry that the amendment he seek do not come to a vote this evening , I hope that the Government will reflect on the fact that , whether it be in live animal export from the United Kingdom or the importation of the body part of endanger specie , those principle of the whole Union and animal welfare should be paramount . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention , which I hope the Minister will listen to , because otherwise — despite all the amendment that have be table and that , if push to a vote , we will support — the problem will still exist , it will not have be address and the protection of animal that the Bill be design to provide will not be fulfil . I rise to speak about the amendment , in particular those table by the Opposition Front Benchers . they do so in good faith , but I do think there be issue with they . if we look at this issue as a nation and be honest about why there have be so little or no exporting of live animal , it be public opinion that make that happen . that be what stop it at Dover and some of the small port . I have the honour of be a researcher for the late and depart Sir Teddy Taylor , the former MP for Rochford and Southend East . among many thing , he campaign hard to ban the live export of animal . before I come into this House , I do a little bit of journalism among many other thing , and as journalist , we follow lorry , as the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) do , down to Italy , believe it or not , without they stop for fodder or water . I get where the amendment be come from , but to suggest that animal such as llama or deer might at some future time be move for fattening and slaughter be stretch the imagination . this place be for debate . the Labour Front Benchers disagree with I — I absolutely get that — but I be send here to express a view . we have major problem with deer in our forest — not just muntjac , but other specie — to such an extent that some farmer be go to give up their lease on some of the National Trust land they farm . they say it be not viable . we be not go to export those deer — we will not send they across for fatten . Llamas be not go to be send for fattening and slaughter . the Bill be target at an industry . I have every sympathy with my friend from Northern Ireland , and I know exactly where they be come from , but it will not be financially viable for wholesaler — that be normally who it be — to take cattle from the Province into the Republic and send they on that huge sea journey . that journey be not cost - effective and just will not happen . we be send here to protect and not just to talk about financial viability , and this Bill be important . yes , I would like to have see it early , as I think we all would . it be a manifesto commitment that I stand on , and I think manifesto commitment be important . however , we can not divide this sovereign Parliament and give those duty to , for instance , the Scottish Parliament or the Welsh Assembly . I do not think that be right ; it be for this country to set what be right and wrong in term of those international obligation . the right hon . Gentleman say that the closure of the land bridge will make it less commercial for animal to be export that way . I have a response from an agriculture Minister in Northern Ireland talk about the export of animal from Northern Ireland via Dublin and then on to Rosslare and Le Havre . he say : " analysis by my official have show that calf export from Northern Ireland via a Republic of Ireland port ( Dublin or Rosslare ) be rest on the truck in the Republic of Ireland for at least one hour before sail to France . it have not be consider necessary to date to feed the calf during this rest period to achieve compliance with the EU regulation " . the practice be already happen before this legislation . it close one route — the land bridge — but be likely to lead to even great suffering . the EU regulation and Department official do not even consider it cruel to rest the animal for one hour and then send they on a 24 - hour boat journey without any food . this House think the practice be cruel , and that be why we be change thing with this legislation today . frankly , what our european friend do , now that we be out of there , be down to they . we can talk to they , be friend with they and do lot of thing with they , but we do not have to do what they tell we to do anymore . that be crucial . there be one amendment that I would have be the first to support , have the Opposition or the Government want to table it , and that be on foie gra . I can not understand why they have not . I speak on Second read about amendment that should have be table . why on earth be something whose production be ban in this country , because it be cruel , allow to be import and sell in this country ? that be a mistake in the Bill . I be sure that amendment might be table in the other House . if they be table in this House , they would be agree . those amendment should be make to the Bill , but perhaps I will speak a bit more on that on Third Reading . it be a pleasure to speak tonight in favour of the labour amendment and to briefly pay tribute to constituent who have raise these important matter with I and other colleague . I stress the significant public interest in this issue . like other colleague , I have have a large amount of correspondence . we all want to see this change . we do not want to see live animal export in any shape or form , and I appreciate the effort my colleague have go to in identify future risk , which should be take seriously . I welcome the legislation , but I regret the delay in it come to the House . I also ask the Government again to support wide measure to improve animal welfare . I commend the work of the hon . member for Crawley ( Henry Smith ) and the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) who just speak about the possibility of tackle foie gra . those be serious point , and the hon . member for Crawley have do excellent work on trophy hunting . I be proud to be able to support that work . I will turn to the labour amendment , which be in the name of the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) . as she say , the Bill leave open the possibility of other animal be exploit . she be right to point that out , because some of the specie mention in the labour amendment be farm in the UK . there be deer farming and the hunting of deer in woodland . I have see llama be farm in the Thames valley . I understand there be a possibility that these specie could be trade . I be concern by that , and we be right to raise these point from the Opposition Benches . the point that my hon . Friend make about the way that the live animal export trade develop rapidly and expand between 10 and 20 time in scale over a 10 - year period be a salutary reminder of what some unscrupulous business people be willing to do in this industry . I urge the Government to think again about these probe amendment , which be wise and sensible and highlight some serious future risk as agriculture change and develop . we would be wise to address that by look at the specie in the amendment and add they to the Bill to ensure that those animal be protect in the same way as other animal . I urge Ministers to consider the thoughtful amendment table by Labour Front - Bench Members . I be pleased to speak in support of Labour ' s amendment 2 to 5 , particularly those regard ban the live export of alpaca , llama and deer , and ensure that specie can be add to the legislation at a later date . as the shadow Minister say , Labour support the Bill , but the amendment would ensure that the legislation be future - proof and fit for purpose . the ending of the cruel trade in live export for slaughter and fattening be long overdue . million of farm animal be at risk of face long journey , which can cause mental exhaustion , physical injury , hunger , dehydration and stress because , as we know , animal welfare can be compromise during long - distance live transport , which can include inappropriate stocking density , inadequate ventilation and temperature control system , and unsuitable feeding and water facility . as have be mention , proposal to ban livestock export be previously include in the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , which be throw out by the Government last May , but the public have be press for urgent action . a recent parliamentary petition call for the UK Government to " find the time to take the Kept Animals Bill through Parliament and make it law " be sign by more than 100 , 000 UK resident . my constituent across Luton , Caddington , Slip end and Hyde feel strongly about this issue , whether they be farmer who care deeply for the living standard of their livestock or consumer who expect to be able to buy ethically rear produce . labour have long call for a ban on live export for slaughter and fatten from or through Great Britain . we recognise that it be important not only to pass the Bill but to table amendment to improve it as an important step in assert our reputation as a nation of animal lover prepare to act against any cruel treatment that they face . in fact , Labour have a track record of do so in government , from end the testing of cosmetic product on animal in 1998 to stop the cruelty of fur farming in 2000 , the introduction of the Hunting Act 2004 , and bring in the landmark Animal Welfare Act 2006 . unlike Labour with those action , the Government have dither and delay somewhat , as have be mention by member on both side of the House . they delay action on livestock export and renege on a manifesto promise to end , as be so eloquently put previously , the sicken import of hunt trophy . I reiterate my support for amendment 2 to 5 . I welcome the Bill ' s end of livestock export and the fact that it will contribute to continue on the path to improve animal welfare standard . I call the SNP spokesman . it be nice to see you in the Chair , Dame Eleanor . I will speak from a scottish perspective . the Bill legislate in an area that be largely devolve to Scotland and the Scottish Government , and we in the SNP be commit to maintain high animal welfare standard and protect our farmer and our agricultural community . the Scottish Government have give consent to the Bill , and the relevant legislative consent motion have be lay in Holyrood by the Scottish Minister . the SNP Scottish Government prefer consistent animal transport legislation right across Great Britain and that , of course , make it necessary to have UK - level regulation in this area . however , we must continue to make it clear that any change must not disadvantage scottish farmer , particularly regard livestock movement between the scottish island and the scottish mainland . the Bill do indeed make provision in this area and seek to protect Scotland ' s unique characteristic in do so . in relation to amendment 2 to 4 , table by the Opposition , and indeed amendment 1 table by the Liberal Democrats , we see no notable cause for concern . we be supportive of the aim of amendment 5 , table by the hon . member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) on the Opposition Front Bench , so should the Government not agree to the amendment and the House divide later tonight , we would vote for it . the SNP and the Scottish Government stand resolute in their commitment to safeguard animal welfare , pledge to legislate continuously to enhance the wellbeing of animal both in Scotland and across the United Kingdom . as we forge ahead , we be look to ensure that our action align with our value of compassion and responsibility towards the animal that share this world with we . I will have more to say in the remain stage of the Bill , but for now I thank all those interested party , stakeholder and animal welfare activist and campaigner on reach this milestone . it have be two year and four DEFRA Ministers since the keep animal Bill be first moot — and , of course , shelve . there be so much more work to be do in specific area ; we can go into more of that at the next stage . it be pleasing for many interested party across the United Kingdom that we have reach this point , and I congratulate they on that . I be delighted to speak to the amendment and grateful to hon . member for their continue interest and engagement in ensure that this ban on live animal export for slaughter be effective and comprehensive . the question of which species should be include in the ban be indeed crucial and be one to which we have give careful consideration . when we carry out a wide - range consultation on ban live export in 2020 , we be clear about the specie that we be seek to apply the ban to . we receive no evidence then , and have receive none since , that a ban on other specie be at all necessary . in the 10 year prior to EU exit , the live export trade for slaughter and for fatten mainly involve sheep and unweaned calf . the number of deer , llamas and alpaca keep in the UK be extremely low compare with the specie for which a significant slaughter export trade have exist in the past . for example , the June 2021 agriculture census record show that there be about 45 , 000 farm deer , 12 , 000 alpaca and 1 , 000 llama in the United Kingdom , compare with 33 million sheep and 10 million cattle . about 35 , 000 cattle and 220 , 000 sheep be slaughter every week in England and Wales . I can reassure the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , who be not in his place , on his concern in relation to his amendment about reindeer . although reindeer be keep in the UK , they be not really farm , and they be small in number . of course , they be import mostly for use in visitor attraction , especially at Christmas . we be not aware that any specie propose in the amendment be export for slaughter or for fatten . it be important to make that distinction : we be talk about the export of animal for slaughter and for fatten . the number of llamas and alpaca might be increase , but they be not consume as meat in the United Kingdom . although there be no evidence of demand for trade in live export from the EU to elsewhere , the definition of relevant livestock cover all live export where major animal welfare concern have be identify and a trade exist in the past . the Minister be detail the specie involve in the Bill and those potentially not involved . I hear what my friend in the Democratic Unionist party say about animal health and welfare issue in Northern Ireland , and I be sympathetic , not least on the supply of veterinary medicine in Northern Ireland . although the point have be make that there have not be live export from the mainland since Brexit , the Environment Food and Rural Affairs Committee have take much evidence from World Horse Welfare — horse be a species include in the Bill — that hundred if not thousand of horse have be illegally export to Europe under the guise of sport or breeding when they be actually for slaughter . this welcome Bill will stop that illegal movement of horse . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for not only his comment but his campaigning against the export of horse for slaughter . he be a tenacious campaigner in this area and I pay tribute to he for his work . I understand the desire by hon . member to ensure that the ban apply to all livestock specie . I share their ambition to see export on the hook rather than on the hoof . however , I firmly believe that the current definition be comprehensive . it be enough already , particularly take into account the past datum on slaughter export trade . I hope that I have reassure member on that point . I therefore ask hon . member to withdraw amendment 1 to 5 . amendment 6 to 12 have be withdraw , so let I turn to some of the general point make by colleague in the debate . there be commentary that as a government we have do very little on animal welfare . indeed , hon . member mention the three or four thing that the Labour party do while it be in power , but it would be remiss not to remind the House briefly of some of the thing that this Government have do , not least recognise animal sentience in law and launch the committee to advise Government . order . be the right hon . Gentleman certain that he want to do that at this stage , or do he want to save it for Third Reading , where it would be more appropriate ? I could do it in both if you allow , Dame Eleanor . I be suggest that the right hon . Gentleman might not want to do that . I be not someone who understand subtlety all the time , but on this occasion you seem to have break through , Dame Eleanor . I will take your inspiration and leave my comment for Third Reading . I hope I have do enough to reassure colleague across the House that the amendment be not necessary , but we take they seriously . to be clear , if there be a change in the dietary habit of our colleague in the European Union , and they decide to consume other specie of animal such as llamas , alpaca , squirrel or whatever , we would be able to come back to this House to introduce new legislation to stop that trade . but at this time , the Bill cover all those necessary export . I hope that colleague will decline the amendment and support the Bill as table . I do not wish to detain the House any long than strictly necessary . I welcome the speed with which we have go through the Committee stage this evening , but it beggar belief that it have take so long to bring this unnecessarily cruel trade to an end . that be why Labour support the Bill . we have long call for the ban on live export for slaughter and fatten from or through Great Britain . it have already be say in expert speech that , every year , million of farm animal be at risk of face long - distance journey to export they for fatten and slaughter , cause unnecessary suffering . we be willing to withdraw amendment 2 to 4 , but we wish to pursue amendment 5 . I will leave it there . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the amendment . amendment , by leave , withdraw . amendment propose : no . 5 , page 2 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 7a ) an appropriate national authority may by regulation extend the list of " relevant livestock " in subsection ( 4 ) . ( 7b ) " appropriate national authority " in relation to the power under subsection ( 7a ) , mean — ( a ) in relation to livestock keep in England , the Secretary of State ; ( b ) in respect of livestock keep in Scotland , the Scottish Ministers ; ( c ) in respect of livestock keep in Wales , the Welsh Ministers . ( 7C ) the Secretary of State may not make a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 7a ) unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before , and approve by a resolution of , each House of Parliament . ( 7d ) Regulations make by the Scottish Ministers under subsection ( 7a ) be subject to the affirmative procedure ( see section 29 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ) . ( 7E ) the Welsh Ministers may not make a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 7a ) unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before , and approve by a resolution of , Senedd Cymru . " — ( Ruth Jones . ) this amendment would allow the appropriate national authority to extend , by statutory instrument subject to the affirmative procedure , the list of livestock specie which may not be export for slaughter . question put , that the amendment be make . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Douglas Chapman Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz christian Wakeford Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Kim Leadbeater Andrew Western Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Caroline noke Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Scott Mann the Committee divide : Ayes 217 , Noes 293 . question accordingly negative . clause 1 to 7 order to stand part of the Bill . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it have be a privilege to shepherd the Bill through the House , deliver on our manifesto commitment to end live animal export . I thank the Minister for give way . we be happy to see the legislation , although I be disappointed that no amendment be make . the Government have already get rid of the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill . they state that they expect legislation to cover further area of animal welfare through private member ' Bills , and so on , but we have see only one private Member ' s Bill relate to animal welfare . do the Minister expect further legislation on animal welfare — for instance on puppy smuggling — and if so , when ? a number of Opposition Members have comment that the Government have do very little for animal welfare . it be worth my pointing out that we have recognise animal sentience in law , and launch the committee that will advise the Government on how policy decision should be make . we have ramp up enforcement . we have increase the maximum sentence for animal cruelty from six month to five year of imprisonment . we have launch the consultation on financial penalty notice , with the power to charge up to £ 5 , 000 in fine , in addition to exist penalty under the Animal Welfare Act 2006 . we have introduce new protection for service animal under Finn ' s law . we have improve farm animal welfare . we have launch the animal health and welfare pathway , with new annual vet visit and grant for farmer . we have implement a revise welfare - at - slaughter regime , and introduce CCTV in all slaughterhouse . we have ban traditional battery cage for lay hen , and permit beak - trim only via infrared technology . we have raise standard for meat chicken . we have significantly enhance companion animal welfare . we have revamp the local authority licensing regime for commercial pet service , include selling , dog breeding , boarding and animal display . we have ban third party puppy and kitten sale with Lucy ' s law . we have make microchippe compulsory for cat and dog . we have introduce offence of horse fly - graze and abandonment . we have introduce new community order power to address dog issue . we have provide valuable new protection for wild animal , and have ban wild animal in travelling circus . we have pass the Ivory Act 2018 , include one of the tough ban on elephant ivory sale — [ interruption . ] I have a long way to go yet . we have give the police additional power to tackle hare course . we have ban glue trap . we have support private member ' Bills which be pass in the last session , include the Bill to ban the trade in detach shark fin , and launch the consultation to ban the keeping of primate as pet . apart from those few item , we have do very little . I thank the Minister for go through such a detailed and lengthy list ; I can only apologise for interrupt he . that list clearly show that the Government have animal welfare at the heart of their policy . on behalf of the people of South Leicestershire and on behalf of animal welfare organisation such as the excellent Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals , I thank the Government for do the right thing . I be grateful to my hon . friend , and I be also grateful to all my colleague who have support the legislation during its passage through the House . rise — will the Minister give way ? I will give way to my hon . friend , but I will come back to the hon . Lady . I be grateful to the Minister — with respect — hold on ! sit down ! I be sorry ; I apologise . Tim Loughton . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . give the hugely impressive list that the Minister have just read out , put the United Kingdom in the vanguard of animal welfare matter — and this be yet another piece of trailblaze legislation to add to that — be there any indication that our former European Union partner be intend to follow suit and up their game in this regard when it come to the transport of live animal ? as my hon . friend will know , I be not responsible for EU legislation . during conversation with friend in the EU , I have be tell that they be currently look at the issue of live animal transport , but that is , of course , a matter for they . I , too , thank the Minister and the Government for their fantastic legislation and great track record , of which we can be truly proud . be it not the case that this Bill would not have be possible when we be EU member , and that we have put right that wrong ? I urge the EU to catch up . as ever , my right hon . friend be absolutely right . rise — I have hold the hon . Lady back for too long , so I will give way , but I be conscious that we need to move on . I thank the Minister for give way . I shall be very quick . with respect to the Minister , I do not ask he what the Government have do ; I ask he what measure that be in the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , which be throw out by the Government , we might expect to see in the future . I know what the Government have do , because I pay attention . I be ask what they intend to do . I hope the hon . Lady will recognise that tonight be a big step forward . we have a huge chunk of the keep animal Bill , and I believe that early in March there will be a private member ' s Bill , on which we will of course deliver . let I contrast that with what happen under Labour by take the hon . Lady back to July 2009 . this be the answer to a question from a Labour Member about what Labour intend to do about the export of live animal : " the export of live animal be a lawful trade and to restrict it would be contrary to free trade rule . such trade must , though , adhere to the standard set out in health and welfare rule . " — [ Official Report , 20 July 2009 ; Vol . 496 , c . 716W . ] the Labour Government have the opportunity to do this in 2009 , and choose not to . let I now turn to Third Reading . I do not want to detain the House for too long , but I be hugely grateful to member on both side of the House who have contribute to the scrutiny of the Bill and have be present during its passage to ensure that this trade be consign to history . I know that the topic of live export be close to the heart of a great many member , and it be be cheer and wonderful to hear so many parliamentarian speak in support of the Bill . while the Minister be receive accolade from the member behind he for the work that he have do on animal welfare , may I express , on behalf of people in Northern Ireland , the disappointment that be feel about the fact that a Conservative and Unionist Government have not apply the same law to the place where most live animal export come from ? the Minister have not extend the animal welfare protection because the Government be more interested in cosye up to the EU than in deal with the issue that affect people throughout the United Kingdom . I be not go to argue with the right hon . Gentleman . we agree on much more than we disagree on , and I will not sour this moment by be draw into such an argument . the right hon . Gentleman know how much sympathy I have for his political desire , and I be enormously sympathetic to his desire to hold the United Kingdom together . he have my commitment to work with he and his colleague to ensure that the United Kingdom remain intact . when the Minister read out that long and impressive list of achievement , I think he fail to mention the complete ban on animal testing , a decision make by the Home Secretary last year . do he agree that that be yet another example of the Brexit dividend ? it be not an extensive list . there be many example of the Government take action , and we will continue to do so . will the Minister give way ? I will , because my right hon . friend have be involve with the Bill throughout its passage . I thank the Minister for give way , because after sit here for three hour or so , I would have be very disappointed not to be able to bring up the subject of foie gra yet again — you give I the look , Madam Deputy Speaker , which be understandable . the Minister produce a long list of what we have do , but what we can do in the future be ban the import of foie gra . its production be ban in this country because it be cruel . why be we still import it , and why be we not ban it ? the Bill deal with the export of live animal , not the import of product . I be sure that there will be many opportunity for colleague to continue to raise animal welfare issue , and they will of course have a sympathetic ear from the Government . let finally put on record my sincere thank to animal welfare group , particularly Compassion in World Farming but also the National Union of Farmers and other stakeholder that have help with consultation response , for their support as the Bill have make progress . let I also thank my excellent civil service colleague , who have be very supportive throughout the drafting of the Bill , for their work to help bring it to this point . the Bill will reinforce our position as a world leader on animal welfare , and that be something of which we can all be very proud . I look forward to follow its progress through the other place , and I commend it to the House . I do not want to detain the House for any long than be strictly necessary . this be an important Bill , and I welcome its relatively speedy journey through the House . it beggar belief that it have take so long to bring an unnecessarily cruel trade to an end , and that be why Labour support the Bill , even if it be long overdue . indeed , we have long call for a ban on live export for slaughter or fatten from or through Great Britain . it have be say already that every year million of farm animal risk face long - distance journey as they be export for fatten and slaughter , cause they unnecessary suffering . these journey can cause animal to become mentally exhausted , physically injure , hungry , dehydrate and stress , and that be why Labour have seek to strengthen the Bill to make it fully fit for purpose . the Labour party have a proud track record of deliver progress on animal welfare in government . the Minister have be proud to shout about what his Government have do over the course of 14 long year , but he do not really answer the question from my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) about their future plan on puppy smuggling , ear cropping and hunt trophy import , so I look forward to hear imminent news on those important area as well . when Labour be in government , we make progress on animal welfare , include end the testing of cosmetic product on animal in 1998 and stop the cruelty of fur farming in 2000 . we introduce the Hunting Act in 2004 and we bring in the landmark Animal Welfare Act in 2006 . we continue that fine tradition with our support for this Bill tonight . I would like to acknowledge the team who have work with I and support I as the Bill have travel through the House . I thank my colleague in the shadow DEFRA team — my hon . friend the Members for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) , for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) and for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) and the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) — as well as all the people who support we day in , day out , especially Adam Jogee in my office . I thank all the organisation who have help , as the Minister have do , include Compassion in World Farming and the NFU . I also acknowledge the work of the official in the Department and the Minister ' s private office , and I be grateful to the Minister — it be not often I say this — for the time he have take to talk to we . I also thank the wonderful team in the Public Bill Office , who be just brilliant . as the Bill move on to the other place , my final thank go to the campaigner , stakeholder and true believer who want realistic , pragmatic and strong animal welfare rule and regulation here in Great Britain . I wish the Bill well and look forward to proper , timely and real action on animal welfare in the month and year ahead . it be a pleasure to speak on Third Reading . it be important , when the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill be set aside , that a commitment be make to bring legislation forward , and this be a key element of it . it be a key element of our manifesto commitment that we will fulfil , and frankly those on the Oppostion side of the House should stop bleat about this element . we will get the other aspect do . I myself be take a private Member ' s Bill through that cover one element of the keep animal Bill . we should not be play tit for tat on this . it be about something that really matter , the welfare of animal , and this be a really important stage . the Minister have read out a litany of what we have achieve in our time in office . the one person who can not speak in this debate be my hon . friend the Member for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) , who take through the Animal Welfare ( Sentencing ) Act 2021 with the support of the Government . as the chief executive of the RSPCA say , that be a monumental moment for animal welfare legislation , empower the court to hand out sentence that more accurately reflect the seriousness of these crime . I strongly support the Bill . I say to the House , and to the other House , that it be a simple , straightforward Bill and it could get through by the end of March and be do by Easter , without question . this be not the moment to add other element leave , right and centre . let we keep it simple and keep our manifesto commitment . I hope the House of Lords respect the will of this House , and I look forward to the Bill not come back but become an Act before the end of the spring . I call the SNP spokesman . it be a pleasure to speak in the Bill ' s Third Reading debate . before I begin , I thank all member and party for the collegiate and cross - party manner in which we have work to finally drag the Government to this point , as well as to all stakeholder , animal right campaigner and the National Farmers Union of Scotland . together , we be resolute in our pursuit to enhance animal welfare standard and we will persist in our legislative effort to achieve our share goal . I would like to single out my hon . friend who sit on the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , which be so ably chair by the right hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) . I also thank my hon . friend the Members for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) , for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) and for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) for their previous excellent work on the Committee and across all matter of animal welfare . I also pay tribute to Josh Simmonds - Upton and Aaron Lukas for their support and for the fantastic amount of work they have put into this area . as this Parliament come to an end , after repeat failure by the Government to bring the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill forward , we might finally see a live export ban in the UK that follow the lead and the wish of the Scottish Government , who have remain steadfast in their determination to see this Bill come to fruition . I say " finally " because it have be two year and four DEFRA Ministers since we first hear of the keep animal Bill , but finally the promise livestock export ban have come . in Scotland we remain cautious , but why ? because the Bill must be deliver in a way that protect Scotland ' s traditional crofting and island community and do not undermine our agricultural sector . we in the SNP have note with great concern the dalliance of the UK Government to prioritise animal right and welfare abuse mitigation by the shelving of the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill . we be concerned because we be wholly committed to protect the welfare of animal and will continue to bring forward legislation to improve the welfare of animal in Scotland and across the United Kingdom . my hon . friend be make some excellent point about how long it have take to get to this stage . do he share the concern of many of my constituent that the Government do not seem to be treat animal welfare with any great priority , give the way in which they have treat the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill ? my hon . friend be right . the reality be that this place do not match the ambition that we have in Scotland and in Holyrood to maintain the high possible standard of animal welfare , while protect our community and the fantastic , exquisite produce that our farmer make . the Scottish Government have experience in manage stringent animal welfare standard to the high level . we be match the EU ' s ambition , but we be concerned that the UK be lag behind . there be no question about that . currently , livestock can move for 28 hour with a one - hour mid - journey break , follow by a 24 - hour rest period before the next movement . during these journey , it be unquestionable that the animal will be distressed , that their normal or instinctive behaviour will be restrict , and that unavoidable vehicle motion might cause stress . other concern include exhaustion , dehydration and overcrowding . the Scottish Government ' s preference be to have consistent animal transport legislation across Great Britain . that will necessitate UK - level regulation , so the Scottish Minister have table a consent motion in the Scottish Parliament . however , it be important to emphasise that any change must recognise Scotland ' s establish pattern of livestock movement from the island and the remote area of Scotland to the mainland , and must not disadvantage scottish farmer and crofter by ban movement between the island and the mainland . the ban must also not include animal be export for breeding , which be a vital part of Scotland ' s agricultural sector , especially in trade with the Republic of Ireland , as we have hear today . this be an area of largely devolve policy , and the SNP be determined to maintain the high standard of animal welfare , as well as to protect our farmer and ensure that our exquisite produce retain its world - beat status . the Scottish Government will continue to work with the UK Government and other devolve administration to ensure the Bill ' s smooth implementation . our official remain vigilant , closely monitor and engage with DEFRA on matter that might extend into Scotland or potentially impact the country , with a particular focus on livestock export , which be a vital facet of our agricultural landscape . I simply want to use the opportunity of Third reading to emphasise the point I make on second Reading and in Committee , as we come to the conclusion of the debate on this Bill . as a citizen of the United Kingdom , I represent people who believe that be a member of the United Kingdom mean that the law that apply should apply to they as well as to everybody else . I find it obnoxious that a Bill that the Government say be to help animal welfare should not apply to the part of the United Kingdom to which I belong . this be an example of the long - term danger that I and my party have highlight — namely , that as a result of the Windsor framework and the Northern Ireland protocol , there will be regulatory divergence , legal divergence and eventually constitutional divergence between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom . it do not matter how the Government try to dress it up . I have a long discussion with the Minister last week , and I know he be sincere . I know he have a love for Northern Ireland , but the truth of the matter be that , no matter what he want and no matter how he view thing , he can not live up to the promise of want to work to ensure that the same standard apply in Northern Ireland as apply in other part of the United Kingdom , because the first duty of this Government , it seem , be to ensure that they do not annoy their master in Brussels to whom they have subject themselves as a result of the Northern Ireland protocol . I thank my right hon . friend for respond to this very important issue on behalf of the Democratic Unionist party . do he agree that the notion that the Bill be trailblaze , and the consequent backslapping , send a dire message to the people of Northern Ireland who want to see we improve and enhance our animal welfare standard even far ? the message from this Government be very much that Northern Ireland do not matter in this regard . my hon . friend be absolutely right that Northern Ireland be regard as a place that have to be treat differently . as I say early , the irony be that there have not be any live export from GB to outside GB since 2020 . the Bill leave out the part of the United Kingdom where animal welfare concern should be high , because , at present , we be the area of the United Kingdom that export animal . we export animal to the south of France , the south of Spain and all over the place , with those journey take day . before the Government congratulate themselves , they should address the main problem that , because of EU diktat , this Bill can not apply to the part of the United Kingdom from which animal export primarily occur — the part of the United Kingdom to which I belong . so much for take back control . I hope the Government will address this problem . unless the application of EU law to Northern Ireland be address , we will see more example of divergence . in fact , when we consider the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill tomorrow , we will find that this immigration legislation can not apply to Northern Ireland , leave Northern Ireland as a back door . there be a big problem that need to be address , and it can not be ignore . the people of Northern Ireland , those who be Unionists , can not be ignore . more importantly , where the Government set objective , as they have for animal welfare in this Bill , those objective can be thwart by the constitutional arrangement that have be put in place between this Government , the European Union and Northern Ireland . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Immigration and Asylum that the draft Nationality , Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 ( Amendment of List of Safe States ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 8 November 2023 , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Desmond Swayne Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Scott Mann Diane Abbott Apsana Begum Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Richard Burgon Wendy Chamberlain Douglas Chapman Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Edward Davey Martyn Day Martin Docherty Sarah Dyke Jonathan Edwards Tim Farron Stephen Farry Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Sarah Green Neale Hanvey Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Christine Jardine Ben Lake Chris Law Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill John McNally John Martin McDonnell Anne McLaughlin Layla Moran Helen Morgan Brendan O ' Hara Anum Qaisar Bell Ribeiro - Addy Liz Saville - Roberts Chris Stephens Zarah Sultana Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Peter Grant Gavin Newlands the House divide : Ayes 291 , Noes 49 . question accordingly agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Immigration that the draft Immigration ( Health Charge ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 19 October 2023 , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Scott Mann Diane Abbott Apsana Begum Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Wendy Chamberlain Douglas Chapman Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Edward Davey Martyn Day Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Sarah Dyke Jonathan Edwards Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Sarah Green Neale Hanvey Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Christine Jardine Ben Lake Chris Law Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill John McNally Anne McLaughlin Layla Moran Helen Morgan John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Anum Qaisar Bell Ribeiro - Addy Liz Saville - Roberts Chris Stephens Zarah Sultana Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Peter Grant Gavin Newlands the House divide : Ayes 290 , Noes 53 . question accordingly agree to . Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament I beg to move , that Maria Eagle be remove from the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament under Schedule 1 to the Justice and Security Act 2013 and Dame Angela Eagle be appoint to that Committee under section 1 of that Act . I thank the right hon . member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) for her service to the Committee . I just wish to put on the record the Committee ' s appreciation of the hard work of the right hon . member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) on the Intelligence and Security Committee . she serve for a period of almost two year . she make major contribution to our annual report publish in December 2022 and December 2023 and in our major subject report on China , publish in July 2023 , and on international partnership in December 2023 . her contribution will also have an effect on our future report on Iran and cloud technology due to be publish before the end of the Parliament . her legal training also make a valuable contribution to our examination of key legislation of relevance to the Committee , on which we be advise to tender advice . finally , even in the right hon . Lady ' s departure , by she be replace by the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , we find that we have a minimum of typeset alteration to undertake give that they share the same surname . we be grateful to the right hon . member for Garston and Halewood and we be grateful to her replacement for step into the void . our loss be the Labour party ' s Defence Front Bench team ' s gain . question put and agree to . business without Debate Church of England ( General Synod ) ( measure ) order , that the measure pass by the General Synod of the Church of England , entitle Church of England ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) measure ( HC 341 ) , a copy of which be lay before this House on 19 December 2023 , be refer to a Delegated Legislation Committee . – ( Penny Mordaunt . ) Church of England ( General Synod ) ( measure ) order , that the measure pass by the General Synod of the Church of England , entitle Church of England Pensions ( application of Capital Funds ) measure ( HC 342 ) , a copy of which be lay before this House on 19 December 2023 , be refer to a Delegated Legislation Committee . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) culture , Media and Sport Ordered , that Kevin Brennan be discharge from the Culture , Media and Sport Committee and Alex Sobel be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Holocaust Memorial Bill ( Select Committee ) order , that Katherine Fletcher be discharge from the Holocaust Memorial Bill ( Select Committee ) and Lia Nici be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy Ordered , that Darren Jones be discharge from the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy and Liam Byrne be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Public Services in Cornwall : Funding Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) it be a great pleasure to bring this debate to the House this evening . it be a particular joy that it have come so early , because it mean that I have two hour to talk about my favourite subject — Cornwall . the whole House will be aware that I view Cornwall as a very , very special place — a unique place in many way . I always count it as an incredible privilege that I be bear and raise there , have live and work there my whole life , have raise my family there , and now have the joy of see my grandchild grow up there as well . clearly , I be not the only one who view Cornwall as a very special and wonderful place . we have see significant number of people choose to move to Cornwall in recent year , and , of course , around 5 million people every year come on holiday . it be very easy to have that image of Cornwall as a wonderful place to go on holiday — we all have picture postcard image — without understand that , behind many of those image , individual , household and indeed business face a number of very real challenge . we be a relatively low - income economy , with high than average house price and a number of other factor that make life challenge for many people . it be not just household and business that face challenge in Cornwall , but those who seek to deliver our public service as well . I think that we would all agree in this place that fund for public service should be base on two factor : the need or the demand for that service ; and the cost of deliver that service locally . I hope to present to the Minister , whom I be pleased to see in his place , some of the issue that be unique to Cornwall . I particularly want to mention the combination of factor that mean that we face of number of very real challenge when it come to deliver public service in Cornwall . there be a need , I believe , to review and reflect on those challenge when it come to the allocation of funding for our service in Cornwall . I congratulate the hon . member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) on secure this important debate . as a fellow south - west MP , I know that what he be refer to be also reflect in Somerset . Somerset Council be struggle to revive discretionary public service , which it wish to do because of the current unfair funding method . in the last financial year , rural council could budget only £ 77 per head on discretionary service , while urban area spend more than double that . do the hon . Member agree that more need to be do to provide our rural constituent with the service they deserve ? I wonder whether the hon . Lady actually read the subject of the debate , which be specifically about fund and deliver public service in Cornwall . she can make her point in her own debate about her part of the world ; I be here to talk about Cornwall this evening . there be a need to reflect on these challenge and this combination of factor that we face in Cornwall when it come to the funding that we receive for our public service . my first point be about geography . Cornwall have a unique geography within the British Isles . we be long and narrow peninsula , unlike any other part of the country . we be almost an island . as I have say in this place before , if the River Tamar be 2 . 5 mile long , we would actually be an island , and there be many proud a Cornishman who have talk about take their shovel and finish the job to create an island . the challenge we face often have more in common with those of an island than with be a part of the mainland . rise — I see the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) wish to intervene and I will happily give way . order . I trust the hon . Gentleman will adhere to the subject of the debate . I hope you will be impressed , Mr Deputy Speaker , by the significance and interest of my comment , and how much they tie in with what the hon . member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) have say . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on secure the debate . he be my Gaelic cousin , which mean that his interest be similar to my own . have he ever consider work with other region in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to help address the matter of public service funding ? we have gaelic cousin in Wales , Scotland and , of course , in Northern Ireland . we be unite by culture , history and language , and we have mutual interest . do the hon . Gentleman agree that our gaelic strength be well within the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? order . nice try , but this be an intervention not a speech . the hon . Member make a good point , which I will probably come to later . Cornwall have a great deal in common with what get call the celtic fringe of the United Kingdom . to pick up on his point about work together , there be a group of local authority call Britain ' s Leading Edge , which represent area on the coastal fringe of England that work together , because we recognise that the challenge that coastal area face have some similarity across the country . clearly there be a lot in common that we can share . have say that , our coastline in Cornwall be unique . we be almost an island . I know that we enjoy a bit of banter with Devon from time to time , but they be our only mainland neighbour , which impact the delivery of service . county in the middle of England be surround by other local authority , police force , fire service and health service that they can share resource with . if there be a particular challenge in one area , it can draw on service from the surround county to help it with that specific incident . we do not have that in Cornwall . in most of Cornwall , we have to provide our own resilience because there be no one else nearby to come and help . I be not sure that that be always understand by Government . it certainly do not seem to get reflect in the funding allocation . we have the long coastline in Cornwall : 422 mile . I have not walk all of it yet , but I have walk a great deal of it over the year . we have literally hundred of small coastal community . nowhere in Cornwall be more than 25 mile from the sea , and the vast majority of people live an awful lot close to it than that . it be just common sense that when deliver a public service in a coastal community , there be not as big a population to deliver that service to , and there be not as much land for people to live on . More site be therefore need . by definition , we need more school , health facility , police station and fire station because we have a small area for the station or facility to service . that mean that it cost more to deliver service in a coastal area such as Cornwall . I have try to make that point throughout my time in this place , but I be not sure that the particular challenge that Cornwall face in deliver service because of our geography and be a narrow peninsula really get appreciate . it be certainly not reflect in the funding formula . we be not just a coastal area but a rural one . Cornwall Council be the second big by land mass of any local authority in the country — 1 , 375 square mile — yet we have a relatively small population of just over half a million people . we have no town with a population of more than 25 , 000 . in fact , nearly half of all people who live in Cornwall live in community of few than 3 , 000 . that rurality and sparsity present real challenge for deliver service because of the additional travelling that have to take place . our police and fire engine have to travel far to reach those community . school travel be a very big challenge in Cornwall . with such large area to cover , pupil with special educational need in particular have to travel much far to get to the facility that we have . we face a huge challenge in adult social care , partly because of the rurality and be a long , narrow peninsular , and the distance that domiciliary care worker have to travel to reach those who need their service . about 10 year ago , we think that we have win a big victory on funding for rural service within local government . after a great deal of pressure and argue from mps with rural constituency , the Government introduce the rural service delivery grant . that be really the first time that the emphasis under the Labour Government — when most of the money go into urban and densely populate area , because they seem to think that those be the only place in which deprivation take place — have be correct , with an acknowledgment that rural area have particular need and particular cost in deliver those service . unfortunately , although we win the argument in principle , when it come to allocate money , it be dampen down and we do not get as much as we should have . in the past 10 year , we have never fully put that right . I suggest to the Government that we really ought to look at that . with the current propose local government settlement , I know that many rural authority will face huge challenge . Cornwall be certainly one of they . one way that we could correct that be by increase the rural service delivery grant to the level it really should be at , rather than the dampen - down level . we have also be promise a review of police funding in rural area , but it have not yet happen . sadly , during that time the gap for Cornwall have actually become big . we be 9p per person below the average ; we have now drop to 10p per person below the average for funding . there be therefore a real need to bring forward the review of police funding and ensure that Cornwall get the funding that it need . the two factor of be a coastal community and be a rural community really put pressure on the delivery of our service in Cornwall . that need to be reflect when it come to funding . the other element that I will mention be , again , something that I have talk about numerous time : the impact of tourism on Cornwall . tourism be really important to the cornish economy , and we welcome it . typically , 5 million people a year come to Cornwall on holiday . in the UK , we be second only to London in term of the number of visitor that we welcome every year . to put the impact of that in perspective , I be privileged to represent the town of Newquay , Cornwall ' s premier tourist destination , which have a population of about 24 , 000 . in July and August , we have 200 , 000 people in any give week in Cornwall , so there be eight time the population when tourist come in the peak season . the pressure that that put on our infrastructure and service can not be overestimate . we particularly feel it in the pressure on the NHS . we often say in Cornwall that we have two winter every year in term of pressure on the NHS . at this time of year , the NHS be under pressure just about everywhere because of seasonal virus and the impact that cold weather have on people , so there be great pressure on the NHS in Cornwall at this time of year . then in the summer , when all the tourist come , our NHS be also under huge pressure because of the sheer number of people who be there . while most hospital and NHS service around the country typically have a bit of respite in the summer because all their resident go on holiday , they all come to Cornwall , so we have to pick up the pressure . I do not think that get reflect particularly in the funding . the demand on our ambulance service in the summer be also significant . I acknowledge that a lot of work have be do in recent year through the 111 service and Pharmacy First , which we pilot in Cornwall , to get people to think a bit more smartly about where to go to get NHS treatment and advice , rather than turn up at Treliske or try to see one of our local gps . that have certainly help , but there be no way of avoid the pressure that the NHS in Cornwall face every summer because of the tourist . our police face huge pressure in the summer . crime go up , and there be more road traffic accident and case of antisocial behaviour , all of which the police need to respond to , but that be not reflect in our funding . another area , which I recently talk about in a debate , be the impact of tourism on our housing supply and the number of Airbnbs , which push price up beyond the reach of many people . that mean that we struggle to recruit the people we need for our public service because they can not afford to buy a house to live there . when we talk to nhs manager in Cornwall in particular , they repeatedly say that housing be one of the big reason why they often struggle to recruit the doctor and nurse they need , because they can not find anywhere to live . the impact that tourism have on our housing market be equally significant . the final factor I want to mention be our demographic . Cornwall have a rapidly age population . our number of elderly people be 6 % high than the UK average , and the number of over - 70 in Cornwall have go up by 52 % in recent year . some of that be just because everyone be get old , but it be also because people see Cornwall as a great place to retire to . again , I do not blame they — I want to retire in Cornwall ; it be a great place to retire — but that number of people of retirement age move to Cornwall put huge pressure on our health and social care service . the inverse of that be that we do not have enough people of work age willing to work in the health and social care sector to provide the service they need , so the impact of our demographic be significant . this financial year , Cornwall Council will spend over £ 250 million on provide adult social care . that be one third of its revenue budget just on social care , and that will only increase as the year go by . we need that to be reflect in the funding settlement we be provide with . each of those factor — our geography , the impact of tourism , and the impact of an age population — in and of themselves would present significant challenge to Cornwall . the combined effect of those factor be that public service in Cornwall face a unique set of challenge , and nowhere else in the UK face they to the degree that we do . I want to make the case that , because of that unique combination of pressure and challenge , we need to look again at the funding that Cornwall receive and make a special case for Cornwall . the Government have already acknowledge that Cornwall be a special place that require special treatment . we refer early to the fact that the Cornish have be recognise as a national minority and receive protect status as a national minority . in 2014 , the Council of Europe recognise the Cornish in that way , and the UK Government have acknowledge that . actually , the UK Government say that they give the cornish people the same recognition as the Scots , the Welsh and the Irish within the United Kingdom . that be very welcome , but it do not seem to have any impact on Government policy when it come to funding . if we be go to say that Cornwall be a special place and that the Cornish be a specially recognise and protect people , that should have an impact on the way that Cornwall receive its funding . Cornwall be the first county to receive a devolution deal back in 2015 . again , the Government at that time recognise the particular uniqueness of Cornwall . that devolution deal be recently upgrade with a new devolution deal . I be personally disappointed that we do not manage to get a level 3 deal , which would have give Cornwall a great deal more and certainly would have shift the focus much more on to Cornwall . I be disappointed that we do not secure that , but we have have a new level 2 deal . that , again , be the recognition that the Government have give to Cornwall . the other way the Government have recognise the challenge that Cornwall face , particularly with regard to our economy , be through the share prosperity fund , which replace the european regional development fund . Cornwall receive £ 137 million — far more than any other part of the UK — through the share prosperity fund . that show that the Government recognise the particular challenge we face in Cornwall , especially in grow our economy and upskille our people , and it have be hugely welcome . we be in the middle of the current round and project in my constituency have receive significant funding , such as essential infrastructure work at the harbour at Charlestown , one of our historical site . Newquay have also receive funding to support its tourism industry and extend the season , which will really help the economy there . we have find that the share prosperity scheme be much easy to allocate and to access than the old ERDF programme , which be hugely bureaucratic and always require match funding . the shared prosperity fund money that have be provide to Cornwall have be very welcome and be do a lot of good . however , I want to raise with the Minister the fact that the current round run out in 2025 . that will come around very quickly , so we need to start the conversation and understand what the process will be for the allocation of the next round of share prosperity funding . I hope the Minister will be able to confirm that , in the allocation of that funding in the next round , the Government will continue to recognise the specific challenge that Cornwall face and continue to support the cornish economy as they have do over the last few year . the unique combination of challenge we face in Cornwall , and the fact that the Government already recognise Cornwall in a number of way as be special and have particular challenge , now need to be reflect in the way our public service be fund — particularly our health service , education , local government and the police . we need the true cost of deliver those service in Cornwall to be reflect in the amount of money we receive . I hope the Minister have get the message that we have particular challenge in Cornwall and that the Government will reflect on those point , continue the conversation with mps from Cornwall and look again to ensure that Cornwall get the funding it need , so that the people of Cornwall can get the public service they deserve . I congratulate my hon . friend and neighbour the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) on secure this debate , which be so important to my constituent and people across Cornwall . I do not want to speak for long , but I want to add a bit of localise meat to the bone . I must also disagree with my hon . friend on one point . my hon . friend the Member for St Ives ( Derek Thomas ) and I be at a presentation on Friday on the value of seafood to the cornish economy , where one of the point make be that an economist have look at the furth point from the sea , with particular precision , and have find that nobody in Cornwall be further than 12 mile away from the sea . it be even more coastal than we originally think — [ interruption . ] yes , on a high tide . I want to add a little meat to the bone of what my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay say . he set out the position on NHS funding very well . Treliske Hospital , the main hospital in my Truro constituency , be the hub for all acute need for Cornwall . something the NHS be do particularly well be to try to spread those service out across the county so that we do not have to have everything happen in Truro . however , there be particular challenge in place in my constituency , such as Holywell bay on the north coast , or the Roseland peninsula on the south coast . if people on the Roseland peninsula need an ambulance , it have to go across on a ferry before it can get to they . that be how remote it be . even though it be very close as the bird fly to Falmouth or Truro , the logistic of get emergency service there be a real challenge for people who live on the peninsula . I want to make one final point , on special educational need funding . base on provisional funding datum for 2024 - 25 , Cornwall will receive annual need funding per child of £ 724 . 14 . that rank we 142nd among local authority . our statistical neighbour — local authority with similar characteristic — be due to receive an average of £ 78 . 49 per child per year more than Cornwall . in comparison , parent in London borough such as Camden , Lewisham , Islington or Westminster can expect their high - need child to receive something in the region of £ 2 , 500 to £ 3 , 000 . if Cornwall be to receive the median of everyone else ' s funding , it would be worth approximately another £ 5 . 4 million to the cornish local authority , which would therefore be able to provide a much well service for our child . primarily , as my hon . Friend point out , that be down to two thing . the first be school transport , because it be very tricky to get a child from those remote place I just mention to the school they need to get to , and the second be be able to attract relevant teacher , give the housing challenge that we have talk about in this debate . I will leave it there for colleague to reflect on . I join my hon . friend in his plea to the Treasury , which he articulate so well , that Cornwall be a special case . we do not like be call a special case for the wrong reason , but when we have water on three side — almost four side — the challenge be real . we have a very competent Conservative - run council in Cornwall , and if it be find they to be challenge , then we can guarantee that they be very real indeed . with your permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like to include in this discussion the Council of the Isles of Scilly , which face exactly the same kind of challenge . I be in the unique position , among my cornish colleague , in that I have two unitary authority seek to deliver service to my constituent . I will not speak for too long . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) on secure the debate . he be right to mention the share prosperity fund and other fund that recognise the particular challenge that Cornwall face , but those fund do not pay to deliver rural service , so although it be good and absolutely right that we have that money , we must also consider the money that council get to deliver service . my hon . friend talk about the sheer cost of deliver adult social care . in an area where low income be often the norm , people do not have huge amount of money , and they certainly do not have money sit in the bank , so when they get to an age when they need social care , it be right that the council step in . for an old population with a lot of deprivation , it be obvious that the council will have to step in , perhaps in more way than elsewhere . Cornwall Council and the Council of the Isles of Scilly have be underfunde for year . we know that urban council will receive 37 % more in government - fund spending power per head compare with Cornwall Council . as a result of year of underfunding , rural council such as those of Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly have have to increase council tax to balance the book , result in rural resident now pay on average 20 % more than people in urban area . that be particularly challenge for an area where , as I say , our wage be about a third less than the UK average . as my hon . Friend say , Cornwall Council service cost more to deliver because of our rurality and coastal stretch . I agree with everything that he and my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) say . the Government have not apply the fair funding formula , and that be the crux of what we be talk about here . as we have hear , in 2016 , the Government accept the challenge , accept that it cost more to deliver rural service , and accept that fair funding should be deliver across all local authority , but they have not apply that in full because of damp and concern about take money from urban area , so will the Minister encourage the Minister with responsibility for local government , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , to use the rural service delivery grant to make up the shortfall ? after not deliver the fair funding formula , the Government introduce the rural service delivery grant to address the short - change that Cornwall , the Isles of Scilly and other have face . if the Minister take away one thing from the debate and the brilliant point that have be make , it should be to use the rural service delivery grant to address the shortfall until we can deliver the fair funding formula in full . I say that because predominantly urban constituency will receive £ 312 per head from central Government , while Cornwall receive £ 244 per head . that be a real difference for everyone live in Cornwall and seek to raise a family and make the most of their life in Cornwall and on Scilly . as I have say , in 2016 , the Government accept the challenge and recognise that it cost more to deliver rural service . however , as they have not apply the fair funding formula in full , Cornwall Council and the Council of the Isles of Scilly have be underfunde for year . in reality , Cornwall Council now have £ 77 less per head than an urban authority to deliver service that be vital for every person in our constituency . will the Minister take all that have be say back to the Treasury , as well as to the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , and deliver what be only fair for the people of Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly ? that be all we be ask . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) on secure the debate . he be undoubtedly a strong advocate for his corner of the country and for his constituent . I can think of few great champion for Cornwall , or for the funding of public service there , than he and my hon . friend the Members for St Ives ( Derek Thomas ) and for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) . I very much value my hon . friend ' contribution , knowledge , and insight on the local issue they have outline tonight , and I will do my good to address some of their specific concern . deal first with local government finance , I certainly recognise that inflation be high than when budget be set at the last spending review in 2021 . this be true on a global scale , and it present challenge throughout the world and , of course , throughout our constituency and community . reliable , high - quality public service always matter , but they mean even more to we in challenge time such as these , and in disperse population and rural and coastal area where one ' s near neighbour might be half a mile away , they can be a real lifeline . the Government be work to ensure that those service be well fund : the provisional 2024 - 25 local government finance settlement make up to £ 64 . 1 billion available to local government , an increase of up to almost £ 4 billion in core spending power on last year . in Cornwall , that have result in an almost 7 % increase in core spending power . my hon . friend the Members for St Austell and Newquay and for St Ives have point to the rural service delivery grant , which be now £ 95 million , the high it have ever be . that fund be distribute to the top quartile of authority , rank by super - sparsity , but I take my hon . friend ' point about its scale , and I will be very happy to take that away to my colleague at DLUHC . our coastal community be vital to the UK ' s economic and environmental wellbeing , as well as be home to hundred of thousand of people , but as my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay have point out , they face particular challenge . that be why we have support so many place along our coast , from the beach of Cornwall to the bay of Stornoway . eleven of the 12 freeport across the UK be base in coastal area , with each receive up to £ 26 million in Government fund over the next few year , as well as potentially hundred of million of pound in locally retain business rate to upgrade local infrastructure and stimulate regeneration across coastal community . my hon . friend have mention the UK share prosperity fund . I recognise and commend my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay for his advocacy for that fund , which have support many of our coastal community and provide — as he say — a significant £ 132 million to Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly , reflect their share of previous european structural fund . local leader be already use that money to deliver ambitious plan for what they call good growth , while the Government have allocate almost £ 100 million to the town fund and the future high street fund to support Cornwall Council ' s ambition to encourage more economic regeneration and strengthen pride in place . I know that my hon . friend would like more certainty on the future of the UK share prosperity fund , which he have ask for tonight . while I hope he can understand that I can not give he that certainty right now , I recognise his council ' s enthusiasm to build on the strong start it have make , and I know he will continue to be a very strong advocate on behalf of his council in this place . recognise the importance of transportation in rural area such as Cornwall to help boost productivity , we have also commit some £ 32 . 5 million to local highway maintenance and funding pothole . we go far in the spring Budget last year , with an extra £ 5 million for that endeavour . through Network North , further funding total £ 3 . 6 million have be commit to Cornwall in both 2023 and 2024 , with later allocation still to be determine . it be not just Cornwall ' s road that we be fund : last year , we award Cornwall Council £ 50 million from the levelling - up fund for the Mid Cornwall Metro . that transport project will provide new hourly direct train service to improve the current link between four of Cornwall ' s large urban area , so as well as enjoy some of the good view one can get from a train anywhere in the country , resident will be well connect to employment , education and key service . local leader have push for that metro service , and this Government be very happy to support it , because we be commit to give more power to local leader — who , after all , know the need of their area almost as well as the local mps do . to that end , the recent level 2 devolution deal for Cornwall , announce at the autumn statement of 2023 , provide Cornwall with new funding and power to support local service . this will help Cornwall to maintain the skill that local people need and help bring clean energy to the region ' s shore . there be initially discussion , as my hon . Friend point out , about a level 3 deal , which would have see a directly elect Mayor introduce with further power and an investment fund . however , as he point out , Cornwall Council decide that a level 2 deal be preferable at this point in time , and I of course completely respect that decision . after all , it be up to local people to decide and for we to support they , and that be what we have do on this deal and on other local matter of importance . my hon . friend mention policing . because of decision take by this central and local government , fund for the police system will rise nationally by some £ 842 million in 2024 - 25 , distribute accord to population sparsity . Devon and Cornwall police will receive up to £ 230 million in core settlement grant , but I appreciate what he say about the police funding formula . he will know that a review commence in 2021 , which be continue to carry out engagement . he may wish it to speed up , and I know he will make representation to my colleague at the Home Office accordingly . my hon . friend be completely right to point out the great many people who in recent time have want not just to visit Cornwall but to set up a home and raise a family there . demand for housing be therefore increase from permanent and part - time resident who want to buy . however , a lack of affordable housing be cause acute concern — house price be high relative to income when compare nationally — and we understand that . the temporary and emergency accommodation budget have also become increasingly strained in recent year . to address that concern , the Government be commit to build more affordable home . as recommend at the 2021 spending review , we be invest £ 11 . 5 billion between 2021 and 2026 through the affordable home programme , which be the large cash investment we have see in a decade . I also note that Cornwall Council have be supportive of Government plan to enable local authority to increase the council tax premium on second home by up to 100 % . it be believe that this could provide £ 20 million of additional revenue . there be always more to do of course , so it be critical that we continue to have open conversation as we be do tonight . finally , let I address the comment on SEND from my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth . nationally , the Government be commit , and have commit , to address this . at the last spending review , we commit £ 2 . 6 billion to create 30 , 000 new school place for young people with SEND . it be our hope that this will lead to few people have to be transport long distance , as she describe , to access the right educational setting . again , there be more to do , and I know that the Department for Education , which lead on this policy area , be progress more wholesale reform of the SEND system . I would be happy to have the relevant Minister from the Department for Education write to she on Cornwall specifically . I have speak at length about what we be do for Cornwall , but let I finish by recognise Cornwall ' s contribution to our country . I would not be the first MP from Grantham to recognise its virtue . be I to walk on the sandy shore of Constantine bay , I would be follow in the very large footstep of a certain greengrocer ' s daughter , although I be reliably informed that Watergate bay in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay be also worth a visit . Cornwall be not just home to incredible natural beauty , delicious pasty , irresistible ice cream and thrill surfing . more importantly , it be home to some of the fine people our country have ever know . while I have list the many fact and figure set out by this government , we should never forget that behind they be thousand of wonderful cornish people . they could not be well represent than by my hon . friend , whom I look forward to continue to work with long into the future . question put and agree to . House adjourn .