I call Greg Stafford to make his maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I thank the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Greg Stafford ) for describe his constituency so passionately . while we may strongly disagree on the need for growth and new development in this country , we may agree more on the future of our NHS , and I look forward to work together on that ambition . I be a proud Londoner , and like many londoner I be not actually bear here ; I be delighted to share with you that I be bear in Manchester and my family come from Lancashire . in fact , for most of my childhood I be aware of only one football team — the Bolton Wanderers — but for the last 42 year London have be my home , and the chance to represent my home city be truly a special honour . I put on record my thank to the resident of the Cities of London and Westminster for place their trust in I as their representative . I start by thank Nickie Aiken for her service . she be a pioneer , as the first woman to represent the Cities of London and Westminster , and be remember fondly by many resident . she have show I kindness and offer her advice , for which I be grateful . I know that here and across the constituency she will be remember for her tireless work campaign to regulate pedicab , and her work to end the Vagrancy Act 1824 and deliver the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . I also pay tribute to my good friend Karen Buck , who represent the St John ' s Wood neighbourhood ward of Abbey Road and Regent ' s Park , which join the two Cities constituency in the recent boundary review . when walk through Westminster with Karen , it be hard to find anyone in her constituency who do not know she and have not be help by she . through her tireless casework for ten of thousand of constituent , and her home ( Fitness for Human Habitation ) Act 2018 , Karen have make an outstanding contribution to life in Westminster and beyond . she be a fearless representative and campaigner and a kind and wise friend . I be so grateful for her advice , and will do my very good to live up to her high standard . from 1977 to 2001 , the two Cities be represent by Peter Brooke , who be remember for his work as the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , and later as the Secretary of State for National Heritage . finally , I also remember J . s . Mill , who represent the City of Westminster from 1865 to 1868 , and who in 1866 become the first person in the history of Parliament to call for woman to be give the right to vote . I hope that he would be happy to see Nickie , Karen and I deliver on his pioneer work for equality here in the two Cities . truly , when a woman be tired of London she be tired of life . the Cities of London and Westminster be home to great cultural institution : the national gallery , the royal opera house , the commercial centre of Oxford Street and Edgware Road , innovative start - up alongside major international corporation , the Government here in Westminster and Whitehall , the international financial centre of the City of London , the beautiful Hyde Park , Regent ' s Park and St James ' s Park alongside the residential square of Belgravia and Marylebone , and yes , Buckingham Palace . many member will know the neighbourhood of Soho , Fitzrovia and Covent Garden as place to spend a night out . in fact , ten of thousand of people live here . we have St Bartholomew ' s , one of London ' s old church , Bevis Marks , the old practise synagogue in the UK , and London Central Mosque . just minute away from Parliament we have the Peabody estate of Westminster , the pioneering and beautifully design Churchill Gardens and Lillington and Longmore estate , the architectural delight of the barbican , Golden Lane and the historic community of Petticoat Square and the Guinness estate in Portsoken ward . all those place be home to diverse community live side by side , but also to inequality and injustice , and the struggle to find a stable , affordable and decent home be hold people in my constituency back from meet their potential . that struggle be hold our city and our country back from meet our potential . tackle the housing crisis have bring I into politic , and this debate on the King ' s Speech proposal for economic growth be an important time to highlight the situation that many of my constituent face . nearly 20 year ago , I work at the Treasury on the Barker review of planning . it be with sadness that I note that we be still not deliver the home we need . I be determined that this Government will deliver on our promise to build more affordable home . end no - fault eviction will bring certainty and security for the approximately 40 % of household in the Cities of London and Westminster who be rent privately . our cross - government strategy will put Britain back on track to end homelessness , rough sleeping and temporary accommodation , which have be rise here for year and be harm so many . I be grateful to organisation such as the Passage and the connection here in the two Cities for do so much to support vulnerable people . the Cities of London and Westminster have one of the high proportion of leasehold home in the country . residential leasehold be trap tenant with unaccountable landlord , and I be pleased the Government have pledge a leasehold and commonhold reform Bill . it be characteristic of such an international place that global pattern affect our local community . the rise of short - term letting and the risk of dirty money in property be contribute to a loss of home for Londoners , and as their representative here I be determined to tackle that . I will be stand up for our local hospital and St Mary ' s in Paddington , and continue our campaign to secure funding for the redevelopment of London ' s major trauma centre . the story of the two Cities be one that be optimistic , outward - look , hard - work and drive . I hope to continue to represent this place in that fashion . I be the first Labour and Co - operative Member of Parliament to ever represent this historic constituency , and I join colleague in close with a pledge to approach this new Parliament with a renew commitment to respectful debate and disagreement . election be a time to make a choice . now that a decision have be make , it be time to move forward with a relentless focus on public service and delivery . it be with honour and humility , and a sense of trepidation , that I rise to make my maiden speech . I think of those who have speak here before and the gravity and seriousness of the issue that have be debate and discuss . I hope that this Parliament be no different in how it discharge its duty , and that we in this intake of new member live up to those standard . I congratulate the many new member on their maiden speech , which have set a high bar . like everyone else in this House , I wish to thank sincerely those who place their faith and trust in I by elect I . I be indebted to the electorate of South Antrim for the support that I have receive from across the entire community — indeed , entire community — in my election to this place . I also thank the dedicated campaign team who support I during what be an honourable campaign . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Mr Paul Girvan , not just for his tenure as a Member of this House , but for his time as a Member of the Northern Ireland Assembly and as a local councillor . South Antrim have move between Paul ' s party and my Ulster Unionist party on a number of occasion . with that , I carry the privilege and honour of return the UUP to this place after a seven - year absence , and the charge and responsibility of bring a moderate and reason unionist voice from Northern Ireland , in my party ' s tradition of work positively and constructively with all to achieve the good outcome for all our people , and of work across this House to strengthen our Union and to deliver a Union for all . I turn now to my constituency of South Antrim . I want those here this evening to know what a fantastic part of our country it be . like so many constituency , it have a mix of main town — Ballyclare and Antrim — and a range of what be once small village but be grow into large village , such as Toome , Doagh , Crumlin , Randalstown , Templepatrick , Ballynure and many more . much of the constituency be a large and productive rural area , while part of the expand urban area of Glengormley be merge with north Belfast in Mossley and Mallusk . South Antrim be home to industry , research and cutting - edge business in large and small employer . indeed , I look forward to work with the Chancellor and her Government in far support those business through the Bills in the King ' s Speech , and especially through the national wealth fund . South Antrim be the base of Belfast international airport , which I believe have a real opportunity if it get its much - need rail link and the further expansion of Aldergrove and our Royal Air Force base . that be why I believe that we also need a UK air transportation strategy , which I may raise later in the Adjournment debate — if the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) will take an intervention from I ! South Antrim ' s agricultural sector be another pillar of our community and contribute significantly to our local economy . our annual Antrim agricultural show celebrate that agricultural heritage by bring together farmer , producer and visitor from across the country and showcase the good of rural life and promote a strong sense of community . it be on this Saturday at Shane ' s castle , and I would encourage and welcome anyone who want to attend . Loch Neagh — the large freshwater lake in the british isle — be another jewel in South Antrim ' s crown , but it be currently struggle because of neglect , like many of our waterway . however , the Stormont Executive ' s new recovery programme be in place , and I hope that — with national support , give the need for action on our waterway — Loch Neagh will once more be a tourism and recreational attraction for visitor from far and wide . a number of issue debate over the past few day will have a direct impact on the people of South Antrim , Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom — none more so than the future and support that the Government will offer our national health service and those who rely on and work in it . the Government have the opportunity to reverse the past year of neglect . health may be devolve , but that do not mean that we in this place can abdicate all responsibility for our national health service . we have the excellent Antrim area hospital in my constituency , but it need resource and support to develop its potential . as a former Health Minister of Northern Ireland , I know that we have plan to deliver well service , but change need recurrent resource , which have be lack in recent year . I look forward to work with this Government to rebuild our national health service . I know that I be speak to the converted on how great South Antrim be , because I have be overwhelm by the number of member from across the House who have approach I to tell I of a relative or friend who live in my constituency . indeed , I look forward to represent they and all my South Antrim constituent in this place . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my maiden speech . I congratulate the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) on a fine speech , and a very impressive description of her constituency and her motivation for come to this place . it have take I some time to get elect to the House . I first stand in a general election back in 2001 , so no one can accuse I of be a young man in a rush . I be humble to finally be here , have do some other thing in party politic along the way . I pay tribute to my late mum and dad , who inspire I to get involve in politic . they give I my labour value , and I be sorry that they just miss out on the chance to see I get here . I also thank my family for their huge support , include lot of campaigning and lot of patience , as my speech have come rather late in this debate . I thank the elector of North Durham for vote for I to represent they in this House . I promise that I will always fight for their interest , and I could not want to represent a fine constituency . I follow into the House the right hon . Kevan Jones . he be an extremely tough act to follow , and I wish he well both in overcome his health trouble and in his new role , have be elevate to the other place . Kevan be elect MP for North Durham in 2001 , and serve the constituency and this House with distinction for 23 year . he be utterly commit to the defence and security of our country , serve as a Defence Minister , with multiple stint on the Defence Committee . he be the long - serve member of the Intelligence and Security Committee , a vice - president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly , and a commissioner of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . that be highly appropriate , give the number of veteran in the North Durham constituency — particularly people associate with the Durham Light Infantry . I be sure that in the other place Kevan will continue to work on defence and other issue , such as the sub - postmaster ' campaign for justice . his continued work on the Horizon redress advisory board will give reassurance to victim . Kevan will continue to pursue an outcome for sub - postmaster who use the Capture software in the 1990 , which be currently the subject of an independent investigation that be commission by the Government early this year . many hon . member will know that Kevan be a keen photographer , often capture and share the beauty of North Durham . countless voter and local organisation have tell I how much they have be help by Kevan . he be hold in high regard not just across this House but across North Durham . I have be elect in a long line of Labour Members , all , as far as I can discern , from the same moderate tradition in the party that I stand in , and include distinguish Front Benchers such as Giles Radice and Jack Lawson , who serve as Attlee ' s Secretary of State for War in the closing day of world war two . the Chester - le - Street part of my constituency have a unique distinction in the history of the Labour party , have return a Labour Member to the House continuously since 1906 — so no pressure on I to keep win at all . however , that long Labour history do not mean that North Durham be a safe seat . in every characteristic other than never have be lose , it be a red wall seat and have be electorally competitive in the last two contest . indeed , this most recent election campaign be rather lively than I would have prefer . Chester - le - Street be only one part of North Durham under its current boundary , however , with the other major town be Stanley . the constituency be rural — surprisingly so . aside from the two main town , there be numerous village . I may get into trouble for not list some of they , but I will try to list the major one : Sacriston , Tantobie , Tanfield , Beamish , Bournmoor , Lumley , Pelton , Pelton fall , Craghead , Ouston , Lanchester , Burnhope , Castleside and Annfield Plain be just some of they . I wish to thank the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , who previously represent Lanchester , Burnhope and Castleside in the North West Durham constituency in the last Parliament , and who have be most courteous and helpful in handing over responsibility for those fine community . I urge hon . member to visit North Durham . as well as fine town and village , it have stunning countryside and attraction include Beamish , the world - famous open - air museum that bring the history of north - east England to life , and Durham county cricket club ' s Riverside ground . Kevan always describe North Durham as a rural constituency with urban problem , and that remain the case . mining be at the heart of the history and previous economy of North Durham . almost every village have a pit wheel memorial ; many also have memorial to terrible mining disaster , and many have lodge banner that be parade at the Durham gala . the decline of the industry over many decade and its eventual destruction in the 1980 , along with the closure of other major local employer , leave terrible economic and social scar and a sense that some community in the constituency have be leave behind . level up , if it reach anywhere , do not reach the proud community that elect I . that bring I to the local importance of the topic of today ' s debate : economy , welfare and public service . North Durham need economic stability and growth . it be a travesty that there be so many family dependent on food bank . it need new skilled and well - pay job in the industry of the future . it need investment and project decision by the Government to be target at create job where they be most need . North Durham need a fairer distribution of public spending . change to the local government funding formula over the last 14 year have be unfair and remove resource from authority such as Durham county council that be deal with the high level of deprivation , and hamper their ability to deliver effective local service . that urgently need to be change in the next local government funding settlement . capital spending on public service be also urgently need . on Friday , I visit Sacriston academy , a primary school , and be horrify to find excellent teacher deliver high - quality education , but in a setting that be literally fall down , with ceiling hold up by scaffold joist and whole classroom , build in 1910 — indeed , famous former pupil include Bobby Robson — now unusable due to water penetration through the ceiling and wall . local child deserve so much well . public transport in the constituency be not fit for purpose . we need more frequent and reliable bus and more train stop at Chester - le - Street . we also need the economic regeneration of local town centre . the once thriving Front Streets of Chester - le - Street and Stanley be run down and need new life . I think the House for listen to I today . I look forward to contribute to debate here and to fight tenaciously for the cause of North Durham and its people and the wide north - east . I congratulate everybody who have make their maiden speech in this debate . it be a big moment in one ' s parliamentary career , but you be out the other side and nothing will be quite as traumatic as what you have experience today . to go through they very briefly , I thank the hon . member for Queen ' s Park and Maida Vale ( Georgia Gould ) , who tell we that her great - grandfather — I think — come from Lithuania to set up a store in the middle of her constituency , which be her connection with it . the hon . member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) pay a very generous tribute to Mike Freer and the danger and intimidation that he face . she be also generous to Mrs Thatcher — she be clearly a very generous lady . the hon . member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) pay tribute to Grant Shapps and his numerous and frequent Cabinet position , as well as his commitment to Ukraine . the hon . member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) pay tribute to the 190 labour woman mp who be now in the House , as well as to Harriet Harman . my hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) manage to weave King John and A . e . Housman into his speech , and inform we that Hollywood be not a city on the west coast of the United States , but be actually within his constituency . if you want to see film star , lady and gentleman , go to Bromsgrove . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) have the peculiarity of have three forebear who be still member of this House . he be generous to each of they , which show that he be a wise man and will go far . the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) stress the industrial and shipping heritage of his constituency , and how it be indeed bombard by the Germans in world war one , but it give as good as it get . my hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) praise his predecessor , Matt Hancock , of course focus on racing and horse — although not , I notice , on horseplay as such . the hon . member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) focus , with great pride , on the Hitachi Rail company in his constituency — shortly , I be afraid to tell he , to be seize by the Labour party and nationalise as part of its Government programme . my hon . friend the Member for Farnham and Bordon ( Greg Stafford ) stress defence spending , the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) leasehold reform and the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) the importance of agriculture . I be out of the Chamber for the speech of the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) , and the Whip ' s note simply say , " he say that there be a cat rub his leg " , or something to that effect . [ laughter . ] represent a highly rural constituency as I do , I know that strange thing do occur , particularly late on those dull winter evening . the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) stress the importance of child in care . the hon . member for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) refer to her constituency as the new " Haliwood " , so another Hollywood reference there . I think my hon . friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) give a very witty speech , and stress the association with the RAF in his commitment to veteran . the hon . member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) pay tribute to David Morris and his support for the Eden project , and I be particularly pleased to see she do that . the hon . member for North Down ( Alex Easton ) make I think one of the most moving maiden speech that we have hear in this House for a very long time . he speak very movingly about his parent , and we all know what pride his dad would have have in the fact that he have be successful in his fourth attempt to join we here in the House of Commons . the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) reference the fact that a roman road — watle Street — run through her constituency and speak passionately about the importance of community and tolerance . finally , the hon . member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) speak warmly of Kevan Jones , whom all of we who have be in this House for a while remember with great fondness , and the importance of skilled and well - pay job in his constituency . I hope that I have pretty much covered everybody and say the main thing that need say . let we now turn to the debate itself , and it seem to I that the right hon . member for Leeds West and Pudsey ( Rachel Reeves ) , while I congratulate she warmly on be the first female Chancellor — I think that be a huge achievement and be to be very warmly welcome — be , I be afraid , suffer from some level of amnesia . she appear to have forget the legacy that we have bequeath to she . inflation , which be up at over 10 % last autumn , be now back to target . mortgage rate be soften , real wage have be grow in each of the last 11 month and taxis have be come down more recently under the previous Government . when it come to debt , we be on target , as we hand over to the right hon . Lady , to see debt fall in line with her own fiscal target at the end of the fifth year , and we of course have the fast grow economy in the G7 . one wonder where this amnesia be come from , and it be of course nothing more than smoke and mirror . it be to cover up the fact that the Chancellor be roll the pitch to raise taxis . against all the commitment she make during the general election , she will be raise those taxis in the autumn . it will not be because we have bequeath she something of which she be not aware in advance . the IFS have make it very clear that the book be " open " , as Paul Johnson say , for all to see . when it come to public service , we have a proud record . on education , we have the good reader in the western world . we have be go up the PISA scale for mathematic and science , something that do not happen under the last Labour Government . crime have be halve , broadly speak , across the period from 2010 to the present day . when it come to work and welfare , we have a near - record level of employment , and we have a low level of unemployment . and economic inactivity be low than in every single year under the last Labour Government . what be labour ' s record ? when they leave office , unemployment be double the level that it be today . under every single Labour Government in history , unemployment have be high when they leave office than when they come in . most disgraceful of all be that youth unemployment be up 43 % under the last Labour Government ; under the last Conservative Government it be down by over 40 % . as for welfare , under Labour there be 1 . 4 million people languish on long - term benefit for almost a decade . on pension , we see the 75p pension increase and the Gordon Brown raid on private pension of £ 180 billion — from which the pension system never fully recover . it be , therefore , no surprise that , under Labour , we end up with the fourth high level of pensioner poverty across Europe . under Labour there be 1 million more people in absolute poverty after housing cost . there be 200 , 000 more pensioner in poverty and 100 , 000 more child in poverty under the last Labour Government than there be today . we will be a responsible opposition : we welcome the commitment to growth in the King ' s Speech ; we welcome the commitment to build house , as long as that be with sufficient local consent ; we welcome the Budget responsibility Bill in principle ; and we welcome the announcement that the Chancellor have make regard pension : consolidate pension and ensure that we get well return for pensioner and that we invest in long - term pension capital . but there be too many echo in this King ' s Speech of the Labour of old . the nationalisation of the railway . the consolidation of GB Energy . the long hand of Government reach — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] Labour Members cheer now but they win ' t be cheer in a few year ' time . they have short memory ; I remember when the railway be nationalise and it be not a pretty situation . they be bring forward french - style employment law that will lead to less efficient business and to tribunal . they will be increase the freedom of trade union , who be their paymaster . and they will be dispense with minimum service level ; that will lead to more strike and the inconvenience of the public , but certainly not great growth . what have we hear in the King ' s Speech on welfare , one of the big challenge of the modern age ? Zip , absolutely nothing , nada , diddly squat — absolutely nothing from the Labour party . they talk about move the National Careers Service from the Department for Education to the Department for Work and Pensions ; well , I hardly think that will move the dial . their back to work plan be name exactly as our back to work plan be that my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) the shadow Chancellor and I launch last autumn , but it have nothing stand behind it — not the billion of pound of support we put in place to encourage people to go into work and to transform life . all we have hear from those on the Government Benches be a denigration of our job centre ; these be describe as place of fear by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , and by the Minister for employment the hon . member for Birkenhead ( Alison McGovern ) as place that do not offer real help . what an insult to the ten of thousand of hard - work people up and down our country who go into those office to help people improve their prospect and improve their life . they be against what they call punitive sanction ; it will cost hundred of million of pound to remove those and it will result in less engagement with the help that be available and diminish people ' s life chance . there have be no comment whatsoever from the Government Benches on our work capability assessment reform , that accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility will see 400 , 000 few people on long - term sickness benefit . they oppose in poetry ; they have to govern in prose . they have not even pick up the pen , but let I be clear : we make mistake in government and we have pay the price at the ballot box , and it be right that my party now face a period of reflection and do so with humility . the electorate have speak , and we must listen . but that be not the same as say that the vision that be Conservatism have die , even if of late it have be too often obscure . that vision still burn bright . it burn bright as a beacon of freedom , enterprise , opportunity and , yes , stability and hope in the face of — Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Caroline noke Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Sammy Wilson Jeremy Wright Joy Morrissey Mike Wood Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Judith cummin Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Vicky Foxcroft Anna Turley