business before Questions Royal Albert Hall Bill [ Lords ] second reading oppose and defer until Tuesday 17 June ( Standing Order no . 20 ) . oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — Track - 2 Acorn Cluster what progress his Department have make on advance the Track - 2 Acorn cluster . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . we have always be clear that we support the Acorn project . my colleague and I have have many discussion with the industry , and we know what an important proposal it be . as we have say , the decision be a matter for the spending review , but we be close to have those decision . I thank the hon . member for speak up on behalf of the Acorn project , as many hon . member across the House have do . many happy return , Mr Speaker . proposal for carbon capture and storage near Peterhead in my constituency have be kick into the long grass by successive UK government . last week , a report by Professor Paul de Leeuw of Robert Gordon University warn of the need for urgent action to protect the energy supply chain and accelerate the just transition ; he warn that thousand upon thousand of job be at risk . while I know the Secretary of State recognise that the Acorn project be a strategic cornerstone of the transition to a low - carbon future and economic growth in the north - east of Scotland and the nation . will the Government finally commit the funding necessary for the project to proceed ? we know how important carbon capture , usage and storage be — the Climate Change Committee say there be no route to net zero that do not include carbon capture — with , of course , up to 50 , 000 good , well - pay job across the UK . the Government have already show their commitment to carbon capture with a £ 21 . 7 billion investment . I be afraid that the hon . Member will have to wait until the spending review for the final decision , but I hope he agree that we be put in place ambitious , substantial carbon capture plan that will drive growth across the country . acorn would go some way to reindustrialise area of Scotland , which be much need . I welcome the Government commit £ 200 million from the national wealth fund for future industry at Grangemouth in my constituency . to avoid we again be in the precarious position of have private - capital or foreign - government ownership dictate our future energy industry , do the Government plan to take any ownership stake in the industry that will be come at Grangemouth ? my hon . friend be right to say that we lose thousand of job under the previous Government , whether in ceramic , chemical or steel . the previous Government see foundational industry through the rear - view mirror , but we know that these industry will forge our future . that be why we be rush to get to clean energy by 2030 so that we can bring price down , why we be support our industry through the supercharger , and why through the industrial strategy we be look to provide more support , not less , to those crucial foundational industry . Fossil Fuels what step he be take to reduce reliance on fossil fuel . happy birthday to you , Mr Speaker . we have be busy since we last meet for oral question . we have confirm that rooftop solar panel will be standard on all new build home and have fund £ 650 million of clean energy upgrade for over 200 building . we have also deliver the first solar project for 11 school , secure Royal Assent for great British Energy — the UK ' s first national publicly own energy company in 70 year — launch the marine energy taskforce , sign a green industrial partnership with Norway and kick - start community energy right across the country . we be ambitious in our plan . there be much more to do , but we be do more than any other Government to reduce our reliance on fossil fuel . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . Most of the 1 , 500 farm in Westmorland and Lonsdale have river or beck run through they . since we be the most beautiful — and indeed wet — place in England , that be an awful lot of potential , and mostly untapped , energy . will the Secretary of State and the Minister meet I and hydro energy expert to consider a new nationwide project to support farmer to have small hydroelectricity scheme on their farm to diversify farm income , provide clean energy for the farm and harness natural renewable energy for the wide economy ? I will not be draw on confirm whether the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency be the most beautiful part of England — I will leave that to he . however , what he propose sound like a fantastic idea and I be happy to meet he to discuss it far . we see huge potential for a whole range of renewable . those kind of innovative project — small scale as well — be what could deliver not just benefit for the system but real benefit for the community that host they . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . move from gas to electricity in home heating be an important part of reduce our reliance on fossil fuel . yet at the Select Committee hearing last week , we hear real concern that people in energy debt be unable to disconnect from gas and be therefore still stick pay standing charge . will the Minister say what the Government ' s plan be to remove that problem and ensure that more people can take up the opportunity present by electrify home heat ? my hon . friend make two important point . first , on the importance of decarbonise heating across the country , the electrification of home heat will be an important way of deliver cheap bill for people and reach our decarbonisation target . secondly , on the important matter of debt , I know the Minister for Energy Consumers have be do work with Ofgem , and we have be look at a debt relief scheme for exactly those sort of question . clearly , we want to support as many household as possible to move on to cheap heating in the long term . we will continue to push forward that work . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . change in the language by the UK Government on the moroccan autonomy plan pave the way for a bright new future between the two kingdom . do the Minister therefore feel that the time be right to finally make a decision on the UK - Morocco power project that could potentially add 8 % of the UK ' s grid requirement and clean energy for the future ? the right hon . Gentleman and I have discuss this in the House before . he be right to point out that we see an important partnership with Morocco across our economy , and we have outline more of that in the last few day . the proposal he discuss be from a private company and , like the previous Government , we have be look at it . we will say more in due course . a very happy birthday to you , Mr Speaker . give the enormous potential for renewable energy generation across Scotland , include in my constituency , do the Minister recognise that accelerate community - own energy project and , crucially , improve local transmission infrastructure would not only reduce fossil fuel reliance , but deliver direct economic benefit to local people ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , represent , as he do , a beautiful part of Scotland and one with huge potential for such scheme . that be why great British Energy announce £ 4 million of funding for community energy project in Scotland , work with the Scottish Government to drive those forward . we see , as my hon . friend rightly point out , the huge benefit not just of deliver clean power , but of the social and economic value for the community that host it . we be clear that community - own energy have huge untapped potential and huge benefit for community . we want to see much more of it , and great British Energy will help deliver it . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . I thank the Minister for his response on reduce the reliance on fossil fuel ; no more backing for oil and gas be essential for protect our child ' s future . however , that positive change require a plan to future - proof british industry that work for everyone , particularly those who be currently work in those high - carbon sector . will the Minister and his colleague commit to publish an energy job plan for how those worker can be support in that transition , particularly around be provide with retrain opportunity ? we consult on a detailed plan around the future of energy in the North sea , which include a detailed section on workforce planning . I be sure the hon . Lady be able to submit a response to that consultation , and we will look carefully at her view . we take the question of workforce incredibly seriously . job will be create right across the clean power mission , include in the big upgrade to the transmission infrastructure that we have see in this country for many year , much of which her party seem to oppose . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . today ' s brilliant announcement back Rolls - Royce to deliver small modular reactor create more skilled job while also deliver clean , secure energy that do not rely on fossil fuel , even when the sun do not shine and the wind do not blow . do the Minister agree that the decision show british business , support by this government , again lead the way ? my hon . friend will not be surprised that I completely agree with she . today , we have announce a new golden age of nuclear power in this country after decade of dither and delay ; in fact , I think that the last switch - on of a nuclear power station be before I be even bear . [ interruption . ] it be not that long ago . we be drive forward the real potential that we see in nuclear power , and the Secretary of State will make a statement on that later . that be how we deliver thousand of well - pay , skilled job across the country and the important energy security that we need . I hope that we will see smr in every part of the United Kingdom , include in Scotland . Rooftop Solar Power what step he be take to support rooftop solar power project . what step he be take to support rooftop solar power project . what step he be take to support rooftop solar power project . what step he be take to support rooftop solar power project . what step he be take to support rooftop solar power project . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . you look young every year , if I may say so . last week , we launch the new future home standard , which will ensure that the vast majority of new build house will have solar panel instal as standard . this will end the absurd situation the previous Government leave where new housing be build without solar panel . we be kick - start a solar rooftop revolution , and the upcoming solar road map will lay out how we be bring cheap clean power to family and business across the country . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . only 20 % of school currently have solar panel . Brigstock Latham ' s primary in my constituency do not . that be why its year 5 pupil have write to I ask for panel on their roof . they tell I that this would cut their carbon footprint , reduce bill and help improve their education . one pupil write : " we may be a small school , but we can be big sometimes . " will my right hon . friend support their inspire campaign and perhaps visit these young community activist in my constituency ? I congratulate the pupil of Brigstock Latham ' s primary school on their incredible spirit . young people right across the country care about these issue . also , they be point out something really important , which be that we have this free resource of the sun and we should use it . that be why put solar panel on school and elsewhere be big project for great British Energy . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . in my Stoke - on - Trent South constituency , business such as the Bestway Group , which own well healthcare in Meir Park , and Goodwin International in Newstead be keen to invest in rooftop solar , but they can not get national grid connectivity . in the case of well healthcare , it will have to wait until 2032 . meanwhile , resident in my village area be frustrate at the growth of solar farm on agricultural land when there be acre of empty flat roof on industrial estate . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss the many challenge and opportunity for transition to clean energy that businesse in my constituency face ? my hon . friend raise some important point . the first be on grid connection . with the grid reform that we be do , we be go to end this zombie queue where project be take up space when they be not go to connect or not go to connect in time . that will open up the future to project such as hers . on the point about industrial estate , I can give she a sneak preview and tell she that this be part of the solar road map . she make important point , and the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) have volunteer to meet she . thank to great British Energy , Meadway health centre in my constituency be set to have solar panel instal , which will cover its entire energy bill for the summer . my local hospital , Wythenshawe , will also benefit , save my local NHS trust some £ 4 million to £ 5 million a year , which can be reinveste back into frontline service . despite the doom - monger on net zero that we hear from the Opposition Benches , do the Secretary of State agree that this show the power of help our public service and create job ? I congratulate my hon . friend on have hit the jackpot with the NHS benefit from what Great British Energy be do . he make such an important point here , which be that the net zero agenda be about low bill . for example , it be about cut energy bill for frontline service and put the money back into those service . who could possibly be against that ? happy birthday , Mr Speaker . in my Chatham and Aylesford constituency , Clarion Housing be work with Octopus Energy in Snodland to install roof solar panel and heat pump in social housing unit . can the Minister confirm how we can expand on such scheme , use the tenant power tariff for example , to reduce energy cost for our most vulnerable constituent ? my hon . friend make a really important point , and this be something that we be work on . there be huge potential in work with energy company , with social housing provider and other to find way in which this can be a true part of an anti - poverty strategy . this be something that we be work on , and we will have more to say about in the week and month ahead . I wish you a very happy birthday , Mr Speaker . I welcome the news that one of great British Energy ' s first major project will be to install solar panel on school and hospital , and I hope that some of the 43 school in Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme will benefit . I have hear from local sport club that be keen to be part of the green energy revolution but face installation and funding barrier . will the Secretary of State consider extend great British Energy and other scheme to help community sport facility to go green ? I love my hon . friend ' s idea ; it be such a good one . local sport club and lot of other community organisation can benefit from that project . I will suggest the idea to great British Energy . Mr Speaker , the Times have tell the world how old you be today . they get it wrong ! I do not propose to write it into the record , but I note that you be catch up on I . [ laughter . ] happy birthday . let we move on . yesterday , a Minister say from the Dispatch Box that only 1 % of farmland be be damage by development , yet solar panel be smother east Kent ' s good farmland . it must stop . give what the Secretary of State have say , what further step will he take to protect our farmland and really do move solar panel on to rooftop , car park and public building ? there be a few question in there , and I will try to answer they as briefly as I can . even for the big solar ambition , less than 1 % of land would be cover . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that we need solar rooftop too . that be why we have put an end to year of dither and delay , and last week announce that new home will have solar panel fit as standard . it make total sense . the solar panel on my roof start work last week , and I be very excited . if you do not have any solar panel , Mr Speaker , maybe you could give yourself a birthday present and ensure that you have an array , too . mine be make possible by the Solar Together scheme organise by Bath and North East Somerset council . such scheme be so important to encourage people to install solar panel on their roof . will the Secretary of State ensure that funding for those scheme will continue ? I congratulate the hon . Lady on have take that step . she make an important point : lot of people want to do this , but there be an up - front cost barrier . one thing that my Department be do be work with the private sector , social housing provider , as I have say , and other to ask how we might break down up - front cost barrier so that more people , particularly those who can not necessarily afford those cost , can benefit from solar power and cheap bill . Grand Union Community Energy in my constituency be a non - profit community group that have do excellent work in Kings Langley to raise funding to install solar panel on the roof of local school , development and car park . it also educate local resident on how they can utilise community energy to reduce energy bill , which we have all see rise under this Government . what step be be take across Government to ensure that community project such as Grand Union Community Energy be implement more widely ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his excellent question . I 100 % agree with he about the role of community energy provider . I hope that he can persuade his Front Benchers to convert to support Great British Energy , because one of thing that it will do — we will be happy to work with he on this — be unleash a wave of community energy across our country , do precisely the thing that he talk about . I be delighted that the Government have see the light on solar photovoltaic and recognise what an important step they be on the path to the sunlit upland of home that be genuinely fit for the future . do the Secretary of State recognise that energy efficiency be a crucial part of energy security , and will he meet I to discuss how the future home standard might ensure that every home be truly fit for the future , include by be zero carbon ? let I first wish the hon . member luck on her leadership bid . anyone who want to be a leader of a political party should take the idea under advisement , in my experience . I see the former liberal Democrat leader , the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , nod . we want the future home standard to really work . it be a plan that the previous Labour Government have for 2016 , but the Conservative Government get rid of it . we want it to make a real difference , and it make financial sense , because it mean that we do not have to retrofit home at much great cost . I wish you a very happy birthday , Mr Speaker — your 40th , I be guess . I be really impressed that Holy Trinity church in Colden Common , which be a heritage building , manage to increase its energy efficiency rating from F to A . can the Secretary of State give any advice or guidance to community who wish to improve heritage building , list building and other old property , which often face planning issue when seek to install solar panel or insulation , or take other energy efficiency measure ? let I congratulate the hon . member ' s community group . this whole set of question have show the huge untapped potential in the constituency of member in all part of the House . I will say two thing in answer . first , I will take this back to GB Energy , because I think the role of community group as potential partner be really important . secondly , he make an important point on plan guidance . sometimes the planning rule be okay , but the guidance be the problem , and it create bureaucratic hurdle . I be work with the Minister for Housing and Planning to make sure the guidance be clear to local council where there be barrier that they should not be put in the way . Grid Capacity what step he be take to increase grid capacity . what step he be take to increase grid capacity increase grid capacity be critical . we be halve the development time for new transmission infrastructure through reform to planning and supply chain , so that we can deliver the grid capacity need to achieve clean power by 2030 and meet the doubling of electricity demand by 2050 . I thank the Minister for his response . he will know that some project be wait up to 15 year to connect to the grid , and the Secretary of State early refer to the zombie waiting list . could I push he far and ask precisely what concrete step the Department be take to drastically cut that waiting list ? we have outline significant reform to the connection queue . there be currently more than 740 GW in that connection queue . clearly , that be an unsustainable amount of demand for connection to the grid , and most of it do not really exist , as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State point out . we have put forward significant reform , so that we prioritise project that be ready to connect to the grid , and have strategic importance to the grid . the clean power action plan will drive forward what those strategic outcome be . that work be under way , and the National Energy System Operator be consider those proposal . it will free up a huge number of project from the connection queue , allow new project to join , and , crucially , allow for demand project that will help deliver economic growth . in my Oxfordshire constituency of Didcot and Wantage , site at Culham , Harwell campus and Milton Park host a grow range of scientific and high - tech business , include a propose artificial intelligence growth zone at Culham . major housing growth also continue , and the new Valley Park development will use air source heat pump . however , the Future Oxfordshire Partnership have raise concern that grid constraint be cause significant delay to decarbonisation activity and creation of local power grid . what step will the Minister take to address these problem and create an electricity grid fit for 21st - century Oxfordshire ? the hon . Gentleman make an incredibly important point that outline why this work be so important . there be two part to it . the connection reform be crucial , so that we have a queue of project that be strategically relevant and ready to be deliver . the second part be that we have to build significantly more grid infrastructure , and it be incumbent on all member of this House to not oppose that grid infrastructure and then come here and say that they want new demand project to be able to connect . instead , they need to take a practical approach and say , " we ' re go to have to build some new grid in this country if we want to unlock the huge potential of AI growth zone and other demand project in the economy . " the strategic defence review of this Government and the previous Government highlight the risk pose to our security by climate change . do the Minister agree that the increase opposition by the Conservatives and other Opposition Members to clean power infrastructure and increase our grid capacity across the country be not just economically illiterate but a risk to our national security ? as so often , my hon . friend be correct on these matter . he usually have a quote that show that , just a few month ago , Opposition Front Benchers agree with we on many of these matter , but have suddenly change their position . as my hon . Friend say , our proposal be not only critical to deliver energy security in an increasingly uncertain world , but to tackle the climate crisis , which have such an impact on our life now and in the future , and to the economic opportunity of the 21st century . I call the shadow Minister . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . we need to ensure that the technology that we import to increase grid capacity be secure . US official recently find kill switch in Chinese - make component for solar farm . the Conservatives have be clear about the security risk that China pose in our energy supply chain , so will the Secretary of State confirm whether he discuss that issue in his recent meeting with chinese official ? if not , why not ? on a day when we be announce new nuclear scheme , I be almost tempt to ask : which party bring chinese investment into the heart of our nuclear infrastructure ? the conservative party . in every decision take about the energy sector and more widely , if there be question about national security , they be take forward in the usual way . we invest hugely in ensure that all our critical national infrastructure be safe and secure from cyber - threat and other threat . that work continue and be a top priority for the Government . we be build the clean power system that deliver energy security , and the Conservatives be oppose it . Clean Power Industries : Jobs what estimate he have make of the number of additional job in clean power industry since July 2024 . since the election , over £ 40 billion of investment have be announce in clean energy , create good job with good wage , and by 2030 , the industry could support hundred of thousand of new job . we will soon publish our clean energy workforce strategy , which will set out in more detail where and how we will deliver the job of the future . the risk of vote for the Conservatives or Reform be that they would put all those job in jeopardy . the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero ' s clean power action plan be accelerate the transition to renewable energy source and create quality job in area like mine in north Wales . a major expansion at the port of Mostyn will create 300 new job , as it prepare to increase its support for the offshore wind farm sector . do the Minister agree that this be not the time to hold back , and that we should invest in green energy to tackle climate change , secure our energy supply and provide skilled job for my constituent in Clwyd East ? I thank my hon . friend for that speech — [ interruption . ] I mean , for that beautiful short question . I welcome the job that be come to the port of Mostyn . this Labour Government be drive investment in our community from carbon capture , hydrogen , nuclear , wind and solar energy . opposition Members have to explain to the british people why they want to leave they colder , poorer , in the pocket of dictator and with less good job . I hear that it be your birthday , Mr Speaker . congratulation ! the UK Government have announce £ 14 billion for new , extremely expensive nuclear energy project , while crucial shovel - ready green development in Scotland be receive nothing at all . both Cruachan 2 and the Acorn project be await the Minister ' s approval to create new green job in Scotland . when will that money be make available ? when we hear the SNP oppose job , it seem sad for the people of Scotland . we be support job up and down Scotland . the hon . Gentleman do not have long to wait to hear about Acorn , because the spending review will be publish later this week . I call the shadow Secretary of State . happy birthday , Mr Speaker , and very many happy return . we obviously welcome new job when they be create , but will the Minister acknowledge the destructive impact of her Government ' s policy on job in oil and gas in the North sea ? on Friday evening in Westhill , in my constituency , I meet many worker who be terrify for their future , their family and their community , because the skilled job in the supply chain that be maintain by oil and gas be not be replace at the pace need by renewable . that be due to a slowdown in offshore wind deployment and a steep decline in oil and gas activity . will she not admit that the Government have get this dreadfully wrong ? under the previous Government , we lose 70 , 000 job in the oil and gas industry and more than 1 , 000 job in the ceramics industry . we produce only 30 % of the steel that we need in this country , and the chemical industry fall by 30 % . the Conservatives ' record be shocking . we be put together a plan that will ensure we can transition a lot of people from oil and gas to renewable ; as the hon . Gentleman know , the skill be very similar . we be try to make that easy through our passport system . we be develop a workforce plan , which we will publish in due course , that will involve hundred of thousand of job . why do Conservative Members oppose that ? there have be no contrition , or acknowledgement of the people lose their job today in this country as a direct result of the Government ' s destructive policy . some 3 , 000 job be lose in July 2024 . Robert Gordon University estimate that there be 400 job loss every two week . offshore Energies UK predict that there will be 42 , 000 job loss unless there be significant policy change . the Just Transition Commission warn that 120 , 000 job may go by 2030 , and that there be no prospect of a just transition , because the supply chain be just up stick and move overseas . will the Minister not acknowledge that this be the wrong course to take ? will she at least apologise to the man and woman lose their job today ? the North sea will continue to play an important role for year to come , which be why we be keep exist field open for their lifetime . this be a decline base , and the hon . Gentleman know that . this be not where the job of the future will be . they will be in the clean energy transition , which we be invest in at pace ; there have be huge announcement today on nuclear , and there be the spending review announcement to come . we be invest in the job of the future ; he be stick in the past . Warm Home discount : extension what assessment he have make of the potential impact of extend the warm home discount to all household in receipt of means - test benefit on people receive those benefit . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of extend the warm home discount to all household in receipt of means - test benefit on people receive those benefit . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of extend the warm home discount to all household in receipt of means - test benefit on people receive those benefit . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . we be extend the warm home discount to more than 6 million household , double the number of family that will get support this winter . that be the difference that a Labour Government make . we be provide support for those who need it while we sprint to clean power by 2030 , so that we can get off the energy rollercoaster and bear down on bill for good . a very happy birthday to you , Mr Speaker . I welcome the extension of the warm home discount to all household on mean - test benefit from this winter . many low - income household be exclude because their home be not class as have a high cost to heat . in Wolverhampton North East , only 18 % of household benefit from the discount in 2023 - 24 . can the Minister confirm that the new scheme be simple , fair and focus on those who be most in need ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that really important point . I can confirm that we will remove the hard - to - heat criterion , which mean that support will go to low - income household that we know need help with their energy bill . I thank the Minister for outline the support available to household with high energy bill . some 6 , 000 household in my constituency benefit from the warm home discount , but many in Barking and Dagenham , alongside almost 2 million other household in this country , be deal with high energy debt . what plan be under way for energy debt relief scheme , or a scheme to help those who build up debt under the previous Government , so that we can support they now ? unlike the Conservatives , we do not abandon those household suffer from debt that arise as a result of the legacy of past government . we be work with Ofgem to put in place a debt support scheme to deal with the huge rise in energy debt that we see during the energy crisis , which the Conservatives fail to deal with . that will provide much - need support , whether through debt write - off or debt repayment plan . it will mean that household that can not afford their energy bill , be struggle , and will never pay that debt be provide with support . happy birthday to you , Mr Speaker . the Government be target measure base on people ' s income , but will they look at the issue of rural home ? many thousand of people live in poorly insulate home in isolated area ; family there be leave in the cold in the winter . we know there be part of the country where home be not up to standard and family be struggle with bill . that be why our warm home plan be so important . we will target home across the country and ensure that we provide a range of measure , from insulation through to solar and heat pump , so we can ensure that home be warm and cheap to run . happy birthday , Mr Speaker ! like I , you don ' t count the year ; you make the year count . you be do very well at that . I welcome the Minister ' s answer . she have in the past be keen to ensure that Northern Ireland do not lose out on scheme . yesterday , the decision on the winter fuel payment be announce to the House , which we all welcome . the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the hon . member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) , be clear that the legislation start here , but help for Northern Ireland will come from here as well . will there be the same help for those in Northern Ireland , who need it as much as people here ? we be work across all nation to ensure that household get the support that they need . I will be in Northern Ireland next week , where I will talk to the devolved Administration about how we can work together to ensure that home across the country be support . decouple Electricity and Gas Prices what step his Department be take to decouple electricity and gas price . accelerate the clean energy transition away from insecure and expensive fossil fuel towards cheap , clean renewable and nuclear power will help decouple gas and electricity price . as a result , we will reduce the exposure of consumer bill to volatile international crisis and ensure that we never again face the kind of cost of living crisis that the last government preside over . new solar be 11 % cheap than the low - cost fossil fuel , and onshore wind be 39 % cheap , yet the marginal pricing system that tie electricity cost to the market price of gas have result in british consumer endure the fourth - high global energy price during a cost of living crisis . do the Minister agree that decouple electricity price from the gas market be essential if consumer be to enjoy low - cost energy ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his expertise in this area , which he often bring to the House . he be absolutely right that decouple from volatile and expensive gas price be critical , and the journey we be on to develop clean power by 2030 will do that . our objective be to deliver a clean power system where gas only provide the back - up , rather than set the price , as it currently do . too often — 80 % of the time — we rely on gas to set the price . we be try to remove that , and to build a clean power system for the future . I think we all agree that it be important for we to protect all consumer from the volatile oil and gas price that my hon . friend have mention . however , while we shift and undertake that reform , have the Minister consider the benefit of have an energy social tariff , to protect customer now from those volatile oil and gas price , and to prepare they for a clean , well and reform energy market in the future ? I always agree with my hon . friend , but on her initial point , I probably do not . I be not sure that we do all agree in this House that we should remove the volatility of fossil fuel price . some want we to remain link to fossil fuel for long and long . we be determined to remove that vulnerability from people ' s bill , so that we do not face the price spike that many family still struggle with . she be right to point to target support as well . we be look at social tariff . part of the challenge be that the phrase mean different thing to different people , but we be clear that bring down bill for everyone be a top priority for this Government , and the clean power mission be how we will do it . I call the shadow Minister . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . the Energy Secretary have say that there be a " principled case " for remove green taxis from electricity bill , and the cost be meet by increase in green taxis on gas bill . that would be a net tax rise for every household — 80 % of the country — that use gas . this be not an argument that he make before the election , so can the Minister take this opportunity to rule out any increase in taxis , charge or levy on gas bill ? on the Government Benches , we be try to cut people ' s bill as quickly as possible . the hon . Gentleman be a core part of a Government who fail to do that for many year . I be surprised that he do not rise to congratulate Great British Energy on its investment in solar panel on school and hospital , because his constituent be benefit from one on a hospital and one on a school . he should welcome that . if the hon . Member want to talk about my constituency , he can talk about the betrayal of the Sunnica application , which be be impose on my constituency by the Energy Secretary . the public will see that the answer be not a " no " from the Minister . family across the country should be worry ; this be become a pattern . for week , I ask Ministers about their plan to align with the european carbon price . for week , they deny that it would happen , and then , once the local election be do , they do it , increase electricity bill by stealth for every family and business in the country . now it be the same for gas bill . when will the Minister be straight with people and admit that the Government be add to the bill of family and business , not cut they ? the House will have hear the shadow Minister ' s failure to welcome solar panel on a hospital and a school in his constituency , but he can deal with his own constituent . on the question of the emission trading system , on one side , we have National Grid , Energy UK , the Carbon Capture and Storage Association , make UK and the Confederation of British Industry welcome it . on the other side , we have the shadow Minister and the deputy leader of the Reform party , the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) . I think I know who I would take my advice from . Net Zero Transition : Rural Economies what step his Department be take to ensure that the transition to net zero support rural economy . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . the Government be commit to ensure that everyone can access the benefit of our net zero transition , include rural community , which will play a vital role in create job and host infrastructure . that be why we have set up the £ 5 million great British Energy community fund to support clean energy project development , include in constituency like my hon . friend ' s . many happy return , Mr Speaker . Chipping Community Energy in my constituency be a brilliant ground source heat loop feasibility project . we know that grid infrastructure be weak in rural area , and there be a risk that more remote area get leave behind in the move to decarbonisation , in the same way that they do with the broadband roll - out . will the Minister share what role she see local initiative , like Chipping Community Energy , play in our overall plan for energy security and affordability , and what step she be take to help such project to provide more cheap energy to our rural community ? that sound like a great project . we be absolutely committed to recognise the role that community energy group , like the Chipping Community Land Trust , can play in ensure that community directly benefit from the energy transition . the trust be award £ 100 , 000 through the former rural community energy fund , and GB Energy be continue that work through its community fund , help to unleash the wave of community energy project that the Secretary of State speak about early . the Government and Ofgem will be work to tackle policy and regulatory barrier to these project happen . in the spirit of try to get as many birthday wish into one Hansard record as possible , Mr Speaker , from one part of the great county in the country to another , I wish you a very happy birthday . in the context of the dash to net zero , rural economy can also be damage by the infrastructure that be be put in . the Morgan and Morecambe wind farm cable corridor and substation will cause damage to rural business over 20 mile along the cabling route , include disruption cause during the construction stage . what effort be the Minister make to assess case in which the infrastructure that be be put in place do more damage to rural economy than it benefit they ? if rural community be to benefit from the clean energy transition , it be important that they play a role in hope to host the infrastructure . when the great british Energy Bill go through Parliament , there be much discussion about ensure that community that host the new infrastructure do not lose out . I can send the hon . Gentleman detail of exactly how his community can engage with that process . Energy Efficiency what step he be take to improve the energy efficiency of home . in 2025 - 26 alone , we will upgrade up to 300 , 000 home through the warm home plan and other measure . that be more than double the number of home upgrade last year . later this year , we will set out more detail of a warm home plan to upgrade up to 5 million home , and there will be more detail in the spending review tomorrow . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . my Lib Dem predecessor , the much - miss Andrew Stunell , push for the zero carbon home programme during his time in the 2010 to 2015 Government , have bring in his first Bill on that subject back in 2004 . sadly , those standard be scrap as soon as the Conservatives be govern on their own . the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit have estimate that , have those standard be reach in 2016 , household would have pay £ 5 billion less in energy bill as a result of live in well insulate and more energy - efficient home . the Secretary of State early mention the future home standard , which be bring in welcome step on solar panel and so on . when will the Government go far to reach zero carbon home standard with a fabric - first approach ? the hon . Lady raise an important question . the failure to have a zero carbon home standard or future home standard in place have mean that we have build over 1 million home since then that be now go to have to be retrofit . that make no financial sense . it be right to put those upgrade in as standard from the get - go , and we have do a lot of work with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and house builder to make sure that can be do in a way that also mean we can build lot of home . what be the Secretary of State do to make it more affordable for household to make their home energy - efficient ? the current model be that those who can afford to outlay some funding then get a taxpayer - fund subsidy , but those who can not put down those first few thousand do not get that support . my hon . friend raise an important point . I be work with the Minister for Energy Consumers and other across Government on this as part of the warm home plan . we have to make sure that those who can least afford it can take advantage of the huge opportunity of insulation , solar panel and battery . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . warm wish for your birthday , Mr Speaker — and I be go to talk about warmth , as you might expect . over the last decade , we have see so many household live in dickensian condition , with dark , damp and cold home , and have to choose between heating and eat . with the warm home plan widely recognise as the most cost - effective way of make home warm , healthy and cheap to heat , can the Secretary of State confirm exactly how many home will be cover ? be the current scale of the plan truly sufficient to meet the challenge we face ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to be ambitious on these issue . energy efficiency make such sense for our country . we commit in our manifesto to upgrade 5 million home and we intend to meet that commitment . I do not want to steal the Chancellor ' s thunder , but we will be say more about that tomorrow . Rosebank Oilfield what step he plan to take in relation to the Rosebank oilfield . the consent to develop the Rosebank oilfield be deem unlawful by the court . the developer will need to reapply for consent , include an assessment of emission from burn the fuel produce . we will produce guidance on the environmental assessment of those emission in due course . have a good one , Mr Speaker ! the big issue to consider in this decision - make process will be the economic and environmental impact . as the Government develop their thinking , will they consider and report to the House on another issue ? Ithaca be one of the company seek to benefit from the large profit from the Rosebank development . it be own by Delek , an israeli oil conglomerate that have be list recently by the UN for human right abuse in the occupy Palestinian Territories . I do not believe that our Government would want to be associate with a company like that , and many pension fund be now divest from that company , too . can we have a report as the Government ' s thinking develop on that crucial matter ? I will be careful about what I say in this particular case and on the specific application for obvious reason . we will be publish guidance very soon on how the scope 3 emission — the end - use emission — will be assess . any developer with any project that wish to reapply will then be able to do so . each project will go through a regulatory process and be consider on its individual merit . Cabinet Office guidance state that Government Departments should aim to publish a response to a consultation within 12 week of the consultation closing . the consultation on environmental impact assessment close on 8 January , which be 22 week ago tomorrow . when will the Department publish the guidance , because it be cause delay to project in the North sea today ? we publish the consultation on what we will do with the EIA guidance as quickly as we could . we be now analyse that . it be a complex issue , as I be sure the hon . Lady will understand . we will publish the response and the process that will now be put in place as soon as possible . any developer that wish to reapply will then be able to do so . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since the last Energy Security and Net Zero oral question , the Government have confirm that rooftop solar panel will be standard for all new build home , deliver the first 11 solar on school project , scrap the absurd 1 - metre heat pump rule , secure Royal Assent for the great british Energy Bill and , alongside Ofgem , deliver compensation for 40 , 000 victim of the prepayment meter scandal that happen under the last government . the east of England have a unique energy mix from offshore wind , hydrogen and nuclear . I welcome the game - change investment in Sizewell C today . can I ask specifically about wind ? a new report from EastWind and Opergy say that in the east of England , we need more than 6 , 500 extra offshore wind farm worker . do the Secretary of State agree that the east of England be central to our energy mission , and can he outline how we will deliver those skilled job ? the east of England will be a clean energy powerhouse for the country . my hon . friend raise an important issue about workforce , and we will be publish the workforce plan soon . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in the dim and distant past , in 2023 , the Secretary of State describe the Rosebank oilfield as " a colossal waste of taxpayer money and climate vandalism " . do he still agree with that ? as with any application , there be a process that my Department will go through . we will look at any application in a fair and objective way . I forgot to say this early , Mr Speaker : a very happy birthday from I and my constituent . I commend the Secretary of State for see the need to reform our energy sector , give that people across north Wales be currently pay some of the high energy bill in the country . will he assure I that any propose alternative to the current energy model will not put any one nation or region at a relative disadvantage ? we be develop proposal that will minimise cost and ensure a fair outcome for consumer throughout the country . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the North sea ' s future lie in clean energy , but despite the UK ' s billing as a wind superpower , we still import most of our wind turbine component while community around the North sea be lose job . trade union and industry be unite in call for £ 1 . 1 billion a year to build up domestic renewable manufacturing , but the Chancellor have commit barely half that . will the Secretary of State work with his Cabinet colleague to secure the investment that be need to realise the job - create potential of the green just transition ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . we be try not just to build the renewable that we need for the future , but to bring the good job , the manufacturing and the industry along with they . the Prime Minister have announce £ 200 million of support for supply chain through great British Energy , and there will be much more to come . we be also work individually with project and developer to ensure that we bring the job here , and that be why the clean industry bonus be so important . over recent month I have receive numerous email from constituent in Hade Edge express concern about repeat energy outage . the most recent incident occur on 26 May , affect 389 customer . what step be the Government take to ensure that energy supplier such as Northern Powergrid invest in upgrade their infrastructure so that community like Hade Edge no long have to worry about outage ? my hon . friend raise an important point . the UK ' s energy grid be very resilient , but we be invest to make sure that remain the case in the decade ahead . Ofgem require transmission owner and distribution network operator to make sure that there be an efficient , economic and co - ordinate system of electricity transmission in the country — and to make sure that it work — but if he wish to raise any specific issue , I would be happy to hear from he . on 21 May , the Government publish their work paper on community benefit , but contribution be unlikely to be make mandatory before a decision be make about the huge Botley West plant in my constituency . do the Minister agree that a responsible developer would offer my constituent a level of benefit in line with that propose by the Government ? yes , and I be grateful for the opportunity to meet the hon . Gentleman recently to discuss exactly those point . we encourage all developer to provide a range of local community benefit , and we be consult on whether that should go far , but in the meantime we want to see community benefit scheme that be as strong as possible for all energy project , right across the country . happy Labubu birthday , Mr Speaker ! our most climate - friendly nation require investment to adapt to the effect of climate change , but sadly a number of they be face a debt crisis and be spend a lot of money on pay sky - high interest rate to lender . give that 90 % of the debt contract be govern by english law , will the Government ensure that private lender take part in debt relief scheme in order to tackle the climate emergency effectively ? this be the subject of ongoing discussion between our Department and , in particular , the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office : we want to ensure that we be not give with one hand and take away with the other . that be part of the remodelling that will enable we to supply international climate finance to the people who need it most . I wish you a happy birthday , Mr Speaker . in its manifesto last year , the Scottish Labour party promise to create 69 , 000 scottish job in the clean energy industry of the future , but on " the Sunday Show " the Scottish Labour leader be unable to answer any question about that . may I ask how many job have be create so far , how this be progress , and when the target will be meet ? the hon . Gentleman be right , in that we have ambitious plan in our manifesto to create thousand of job fund through great British Energy — something that he fail to vote for , so he be now against the investment that will come . we have secure £ 40 billion - worth of private investment since we come to office , with hundred of job and many , many thousand to come . thousand of my constituent in Barking receive their energy via a heat network provide by their landlord or a housing association . in many case , they be not eligible for the warm home discount . what plan do the Government have to make sure that those constituent receive the support they need ? we have have challenge with heat network across the country . that be why we be bring forward regulation to make sure both that there be a fair price for people on heat network and that technical standard drive up the quality of heat network , so that people can have cheap bill . standing order charge be make energy bill unaffordable , particularly for those on low income . what step be minister take to address this ? the hon . Lady raise a really important point about the level of stand order charge , and this be something that Ofgem have consult on . the complexity be that if we redistribute stand order charge , it can have significant adverse distributional effect , but Ofgem be seek to have low standing order charge for some customer . Wasco Coatings in my constituency have invest significantly in its Hartlepool operation in anticipation of the ambitious net zero plan on Teesside . we now learn that there be a possibility that the contract may go abroad , which threaten Hartlepool job . do the Minister agree that british investment must back british job , and do she have a message for those decide on the contract ? the Northern Endurance Partnership , which be develop the infrastructure to transport co2 across Teesside and the Humber , will create thousand of job . there be a 50 % local content target , but we want to exceed that , and I urge the partnership to use british supplier . I think my hon . friend be meet its representative this week . we stand ready to do so , and we want everyone to buy British . research from Centrica , which be headquarter on my patch , show that Hive have save domestic customer half a billion pound on their energy bill since its inception . do the Secretary of State agree that smart datum , which give consumer the ability to control their energy use without the need for top - down ban , taxis and mandate , should be a key plank of the warm home plan ? the hon . Gentleman raise a really important point . minimum half - hourly charge will also help customer to use smart solution and make saving , and all the evidence collect under the last Government show that when consumer - lead flexibility be offer , people really take advantage of it . make community energy the centrepiece of the Government ' s clean power plan will foster support for new scheme by put the public in the drive seat to choose where , and at what scale , project can fit into local landscape . to unleash the full potential of community energy , will minister consider implement the long - stand proposal to enable these scheme to sell electricity directly to local people ? the Government ' s licence exemption scheme already allow small - scale supplier , include many community energy group , to come to market to supply local customer . the Secretary of State have also commission Ofgem to work with the Department to explore some of the policy and regulatory barrier to local supply . in 2026 , Formula 1 will be use a fully sustainable drop - in fuel in all its car . do the Secretary of State agree that this provide an exciting opportunity for the UK to lead the world in use research and development from Formula 1 to support the pursuit of net zero for all motorist , and will he agree to meet I and representative of motor sport to discuss this issue far ? yes . that sound really good . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . at the former Chatterley Whitfield colliery in my constituency of Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove , the council have launch an ambitious plan to go from black to green , create a combine digital and eco park that include an AI growth zone . will the Secretary of State meet I — alongside my constituency neighbour and hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) , who have champion this cause , and partner — to see for himself the potential of our coalfield community ? that also sound really good , and it sound like a really important initiative . the idea of AI growth zone , which have be promote by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Science , Technology and Innovation , be great , and I congratulate my hon . friend . may I extend an invite to the Secretary of State to come to Aberdeen and meet the highly skilled energy workforce , whose job be be put at risk as a result of his policy ? I absolutely meet North sea worker and company . what we need to do for they be build the clean energy future so that they can transition . that be about carbon capture and storage , hydrogen and offshore wind , and it be about nuclear as well — something that SNP Members oppose . this government be go to make the investment to make it happen . Lang may yer lum reek , Mr Speaker . the Minister may know that we use to have nuclear power in Ayrshire , create many well - pay job . do he think we could see small modular reactor at Hunterston , and what do he think of the SNP ' s abject failure to bring nuclear to Scotland , even though it have plan for an independent Scotland to rely on english nuclear ? the SNP ' s be an anti - job , anti - investment and anti - clean energy position , and SNP Members should be ashamed of themselves . during the last election campaign , the Secretary of State say he would cut energy bill by £ 300 . could he set out for family and small business in Bridgwater the timescale for fulfil that promise ? we say we would cut energy bill by up to £ 300 by 2030 , and that remain our commitment . penn - bloodh lowen , Mr Speaker . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to nuclear energy as a means of reduce our reliance on fossil fuel , but I be concerned that far less attention have be give to another low - carbon , low marginal cost , firm baseload power source — deep geothermal . by some estimate , there be over 30 GW of geothermal energy potential in the cornish granite batholith alone . what be the Government do to assess and unlock this untapped geothermal potential ? as always , my hon . friend be a great champion for his local area and its different energy source . I be very happy to meet he , as geothermal have huge opportunity . I think some of it have yet to come to market , but we look at all opportunity for deliver clean power . happy birthday , Mr Speaker — I suspect you may be relieve that we can not sing in the Chamber . I be recently approach by a small business owner in my constituency of Edinburgh West who face bill of almost £ 30 , 000 for the period of lockdown when her business be closed . she be get no sense out of british Gas Lite about why she be face this bill , and I be get no response from it . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can find out what be happen ? a quick yes will do . yes . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . the York Central development site at the heart of my constituency have be find to be a rich source of deep geothermal energy . will the Minister meet I to look at how we can bring this on stream to heat the 2 , 500 home and support the 12 , 500 job there will be on that site ? I be very happy to meet my hon . friend . there be a number of scheme like this already . the Mining Remediation Authority have a number of project under way . there be huge potential , and I be happy to meet she to discuss it . happy birthday , Mr Speaker , and despite what have be say by colleague on the Benches in front of I , you do not look a day over 75 . [ laughter . ] while the Minister be claim to save the world by close down the oil and gas industry in the United Kingdom , Centrica have sign a £ 20 billion deal with Norway to supply gas to the United Kingdom . how do he justify the loss of british job , give away tax revenue and put growth in jeopardy by close down an industry that be still much need ? the right hon . Gentleman be wrong on two front . first , we be not close down oil and gas . it will continue to play a part for many year to come , but there be a transition under way , as there have be for many year . the truth of the matter be that , while we want to create the job that come next , he turn his face against all the investment in what those job will be , which mean that , under his plan , the transition will not lead to a future for that incredibly skilled workforce . we be determined to do it differently , so that there be good , well - pay job in the future and a secure energy mix for decade to come . I thank everybody who have wish I well for my birthday . I get the good birthday present , and that be the knighthood for Sir Billy Boston , who have to leave Wales to play rugby league . this be the first knighthood for rugby league , so it be the good present I could have have . Nuclear Power : investment with permission , I would like to make a statement about Government plan for investment in new nuclear power . sixteen year ago , in 2009 , as Energy Secretary I deliver a statement to this House identify potential site for new nuclear . I say : " we need to use all available low - carbon source … new nuclear be right for energy security and climate change , and it will be good for job too " . — [ Official Report , 9 November 2009 ; Vol . 499 , c . 31 . ] that be true back then , and it be even more true today . Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine and the cost of living crisis that follow show how vulnerable we be as a country because of our dependence on fossil fuel , at the whim of market control by petrostate and dictator . the imperative of energy security and the demand of the climate crisis mean that we must shift as fast as possible to clean , home - grow power . the demand for that power , as we shift away from gas , be expect to at least double by 2050 , so we need all the low - carbon source possible to meet the demand we face . the advice from expert , include the Climate Change Committee , be clear : we need new nuclear to meet our climate obligation . this Government support new nuclear because of our belief that the climate crisis be the great long - term threat face our country and our world , not in spite of it ; because of the imperative of energy security ; and because of the good , skilled job that nuclear provide . in Britain today , there be too few industry that offer the secure , well - pay job with strong trade union that the british people desire and deserve . time and again , I have hear from people up and down the country about the importance of nuclear job to their community . for all these reason , the Government be take decisive step today to usher in a new golden age of nuclear for Britain . first , back in the late 2000 , when I be Energy Secretary , I identify Sizewell as a potential site for new nuclear . it have take 16 year , but I be incredibly proud that today we be announce £ 14 . 2 billion of public funding for this spending review period to build Sizewell C , the first government - fund and own nuclear power station in Britain since the 1980 — a strategic partnership with France , with EDF intend to invest alongside we . I recognise the contribution of my hon . friend the Members for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) and for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) in advocate for this project and my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) for her advocacy for nuclear as a whole . I also acknowledge the work of the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , who be not in his place , when he be Minister for nuclear . Sizewell C will power the equivalent of around 6 million home with clean , home - grow energy for 60 year , and will be a job and growth engine for Britain , support 10 , 000 job at peak construction and create 1 , 500 apprenticeship — well - pay , highly skilled job in East Anglia and community across the country . I thank the GMB , Unite , and Prospect trade union , which be brilliant champion for the nuclear industry . Sizewell have already sign £ 4 . 2 billion - worth of contract with 311 company , and will eventually work with 3 , 500 supplier in all four nation of the UK . this project be good value for money for the taxpayer , because there will be a clear economic return on the investment , and for the bill payer , because all the due diligence we have do demonstrate that the cost of the clean power it will supply will be cheap than the alternative . we expect the final investment decision on the project , include through the capital raise from the private sector , to be complete in the summer , when we will set out further detail . this be a new generation of nuclear power , promise for year and deliver by this Labour Government . secondly , small modular reactor offer a huge industrial opportunity for our country , and we be determined to harness Britain ' s nuclear expertise to win the global race to lead in this new technology . I can inform the House that follow a rigorous two - year competition , today Rolls - Royce SMR have be select as the preferred bidder to develop the UK ' s first smr , subject to final Government approval and contract signature . this initial project could create up to 3 , 000 skilled job and power the equivalent of around 3 million home . in the spending review , we be commit to the public investment need to get the SMR programme off the ground , with more than £ 2 . 5 billion in funding over the period . the project will be deliver by Great British Energy Nuclear , a publicly own company headquarter in Warrington — an allied company to great British Energy , which be headquarter in Aberdeen . subject to Government approval , the contract will be sign later this year . our aim be to deliver one of Europe ' s first SMR fleet , lead the world in the nuclear technology of the future , with more good job and energy security fund and make possible by this Labour Government . thirdly , beyond the immediate horizon , nuclear fusion offer the potential of an energy - abundant future . Britain already lead , thank to the pioneer work of the UK Atomic Energy Authority , but unlike in the past , we be determined to make the investment to stay ahead as a country . today , we be pledge to invest more than £ 2 . 5 billion in nuclear fusion , include in the STEP — spherical tokamak for energy production — programme , which will help to progress the new prototype fusion plant at West Burton . I congratulate the Mayor of the East Midlands , Claire Ward , on her tireless advocacy for this project , as well as my hon . friend the Members for bassetlaw ( Jo White ) and for Rushcliffe ( James Naish ) on their advocacy . this will be the first fusion plant of its kind in the world , and it will be on the site of a former coal - fire power station . under a Labour Government , Britain will lead the clean energy transition and trailblaze the technology of the future . fourthly , our nuclear ambition do not stop there . as we move ahead on these project , we see huge potential right across the country . that be why we be look to provide a route for private sector - lead advanced nuclear project — advanced modular reactor and smr — to be deploy in the UK . and we will task great British Energy Nuclear with a new role in assess proposal , with the National Wealth Fund explore potential investment opportunity . my message to the private sector be that if it want to build new nuclear , Britain be open for business . I can also tell the House that , follow the incredible campaigning work of my hon . friend the Members for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) , for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) and for Barrow and Furness ( Michelle Scrogham ) , my Department have ask the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority and Cumberland council to consider the potential of privately lead clean energy development in Moorside , deliver job and growth in Cumbria . we also know that this be an industry that demand long - term thinking . therefore , have announce these step today , we will build on our 2030 clean power action plan and set out our plan for the energy system , include our ambition and next step on nuclear , into the 2030 and beyond . take together , the step that I have announce today will kick off the big nuclear building programme that Britain have see in half a century , double down on our nuclear strength to take the late step forward in our mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower . when people ask what clean energy and net zero mean for our country , this be what it be all about . for too long , our country have not make the crucial investment in energy or infrastructure that we need . the british people have pay the price for this short - sighted failure to invest — in low living standard , insecurity and decline public service . this week ' s announcement signal a decisive change in approach — to invest in the future and make the right choice for energy security , the right choice for job , the right choice for climate , our child and grandchild , the right choice for Britain , and the right choice of investment over decline . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . the conservative party be a pro - nuclear party and we welcome any decision , back by investment , that increase Britain ' s nuclear capacity , because we can not deliver cheap , reliable and secure energy without it . although the investment announce today by the Secretary of State be significant , it be a fraction of the £ 230 billion cost , which will ultimately be bear by consumer , of his plan to decarbonise the grid . unlike the intermittent technology back at such cost by the Secretary of State , nuclear provide reliable baseload power . it generate inertia to stabilise our grid . nuclear power plant require substantially less new grid infrastructure compare with disperse generation from wind and solar . it be to the shame of successive government over many year that Britain relinquish its status as a world leader in civil nuclear technology . in 1965 , we have more nuclear reactor than the United States , the USSR and the rest of the world put together . between 1956 and 1966 , we build 10 nuclear power station , but we give all that up . the contribution of nuclear to our power generation peak in 1994 and have fall consistently since then . labour come to power in 1997 , say that it see no economic case for the building of any new nuclear power station . in 2010 , the coalition agreement rule out public investment in nuclear . it be the last Conservative Government who plan the large revival of nuclear power in 70 year and it be thank to that work that the Secretary of State have be able to make many of these announcement today . can he reiterate , despite the headline this morning , that the final investment decision have not yet be make ? he say in his statement that he will announce it in the summer , but can he give we a more precise date when we will be tell the total Government investment and the private capital raise ? this statement be a downgrade on what the previous Government put in motion . today , the Energy Secretary have announce only one small modular reactor . there be no clear target to increase nuclear power generation and no news on Wylfa . the nuclear industry be expect news of a third gigawatt scale reactor . the previous Government purchase the land and commit to build , but on this today the Energy Secretary say nothing . can he commit to the planning inherit for a third gigawatt scale plant at Wylfa and will he recommit to the conservative policy of 24 GW of nuclear power by 2050 ? although it be good news that Rolls - Royce will build our first small modular reactor , this be a downgrade on what be previously plan . can the Secretary of State tell we why he have award just one technology rather than two as set out previously ? furthermore , will he commit , as other country have , to go fast ? Canada have approve a plan for four smr by 2029 . as thing stand , Britain will not have smr connect to the grid until the 2030s . the contrast between this caution on nuclear and the Government ' s rush to decarbonise the entire grid in just five year , while bet the house on unreliable and intermittent renewable technology and shut down british oil and gas in the North sea , could not be clear . we need the Energy Secretary to focus on the positive , not to stake our country ' s future and people ' s bill on ideology . I feel a bit sorry for the hon . gentleman ; it be hard on a day like this to be an Opposition Member . nevertheless , I will try to answer his question , such as they be . on the question about the final investment decision , he will be aware that we be currently do the private sector capital raise . when that be complete , we will proceed to the final investment decision , which will take place this summer . that be obviously important . on his fundamental question , I do slightly scratch my head , because he say that this be a downgrade — we have announce the large nuclear building programme in 50 year ! what he say might have look good in the mirror this morning , but it do not bear much resemblance to reality . the question , which go to the point I make at the end of my statement , be this : why do the Conservatives make all these promise on nuclear but fail to deliver they ? there be a simple answer . it be not because of a lack of diligence from his colleague the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) . the simple reason be that they do not put up the money . they do not make the investment . the one thing that have bedevil the nuclear programme be a failure to invest public money . in this spending review we be put in £ 14 billion for Sizewell , £ 2 . 5 billion for smr , and £ 2 . 5 billion for fusion . those be significant sum of long - term capital investment . the Conservatives make all these promise , but they do not put in the money . I be the guy who identify Sizewell , and I be back here deliver Sizewell . this government be willing to make the investment . we welcome the support from the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) , such as it be , but he need to learn some lesson . public investment , not decline , be the answer for Britain . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . I warmly congratulate my right hon . friend on deliver on his promise from 2009 and confirm Sizewell C , along with the vast array of commitment to a bright nuclear future for this country . the Select Committee look forward to our inquiry in the autumn into the future of nuclear ; we will be take evidence and make recommendation to support the work that the Secretary of State have set out . we visit Sizewell C , and I also visit the nuclear physics department at the University of Liverpool . I learn in both case about the job that will be available across the country . can the Secretary of State confirm that he see this as the start of both gigawatt construction of new nuclear and a big expansion into smr and amr , which be still a nascent technology , to support a very good future for nuclear generation in this country ? my hon . friend speak very well on this subject . I agree with he about the huge job potential from new nuclear and the timeline . my priority when we come into office be to get these thing over the line , because there have be so many promise make by the last government . long - term promise be make under Boris Johnson for 2050 , but they do not deliver anything towards the 24 GW target . my priority be to get on and deliver these thing and get they over the line , which we be do . then we can look at what the energy need be go forward and how we meet they . I agree with my hon . friend that nuclear have an essential part to play , alongside all the other clean energy technology ; electricity demand be go to double by 2050 , so we need all of they . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we welcome the Government ' s renew focus on energy security through nuclear power as part of the energy mix . it be long overdue , after year of dither and delay from successive conservative government . it have be 16 year since Sizewell C be first announce in 2009 , and now , seven Prime Ministers later , we be finally see real movement . that be not a success story but a warning . short - term thinking , poor delivery and exorbitant cost — be you quote Nick Clegg ? will the hon . member let I continue ? order . I will decide when thing be out of order . I do not need any help . I want you to get the question finish quickly , so come on . I can not help but wonder whether the Secretary of State imagine when he stand at his Dispatch Box back in 2009 that he would be back in 2025 still announce funding for the same project . we support investment in clean , home - grow energy . small modular nuclear reactor have real potential to reduce our dependence on foreign gas — from tyrant like Putin — and help bring down bill , so we welcome the Government ' s backing of the nascent technology of small modular reactor and their choice of Rolls - Royce , which be recognise as a first mover across all of Europe . that be where the focus should be — not on large - scale project like Sizewell C that cost billion , take decade and so often go over budget . we have to ensure that this do not land consumer with high energy bill . that risk be very real . the Government must be transparent about how this will be pay for , because family can not afford another hit to their household budget . the Liberal Democrats believe that the good way to cut bill , create good job and boost energy security be to invest in home - grow renewable such as solar , wind , tidal and geothermal , and to upgrade our national grid to deliver that clean power . we look forward to see more detail on the long - overdue reform of the outdated first come , first serve grid connection system , which be hold back renewable energy project and could even delay the roll - out of new smr . today ' s announcement be a step in the right direction , but the real test be in the delivery of cheap bill , strong energy security and a modern energy grid fit for the future . I thank the hon . Lady for her contribution . I feel bad about mention this , but she have slightly airbrush out the role of the current leader of the Liberal Democrats , who be Energy Secretary for a period , but we will " Trotsky " — to use a familial term of origin — that out of the record . I sincerely welcome her support for this programme , and she put the case very well : it be a lesson to some of the Opposition Members sit behind she that we need all the clean energy technology ; we should not choose between they . be in favour of nuclear do not mean that we be against wind . I be the big enthusiast for offshore wind , onshore wind , solar and all these technology . let we have all of they , to get off fossil fuel and meet our electricity and energy demand . thank you , Mr Speaker , and happy birthday ; you be bear only a few month after the opening of Calder Hall , the world ' s first civil nuclear power plant , so you share that . the Secretary of State have make the major decision , which be incredibly welcome in west Cumbria , to unlock up to 200 acre of land at Moorside for clean energy project , include new nuclear . this issue have be stick for many year , and I welcome the Secretary of State ' s effort on it , the decision he make and the work he have do with the Cumberland Nuclear Future Board to make it happen . will the Secretary of State continue to work with I and local partner to drive the project through so that we get something deliver at the site ? secondly , can he say more about the regulatory taskforce that be be undertake at the moment so that we can cut through the bureaucracy and build reactor more quickly ? to reassure you , Mr Speaker , you look much young than the Calder Hall nuclear power station . and it be be decommission — that be even bad ! absolutely right — there will be no decommissioning of you , Mr Speaker . I congratulate my hon . friend on show incredible leadership for his constituent on this issue . it have be a pleasure to work with he and other colleague on these question . he be right about the potential ; he be also right about the regulatory question . we have some of the high standard of regulation in the world , but it be always right that we look at how we can improve standard of regulation and avoid change in regulation during the course of project , which be crucial for success . that be the work we be get on with . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . to give credit where it be due , I totally welcome today ' s announcement on nuclear . where I disagree with the Secretary of State be on his persistence to plough ahead with inefficient technology such as solar and the associate paraphernalia , such as battery storage , which trash the Buckinghamshire countryside and , indeed , the wide british countryside . nuclear work 24 / 7 ; solar work about 10 % of the time . will he have great courage and plough ahead with this much more efficient 24 / 7 nuclear technology and drop solar ? I thank the hon . member for part of what he say , if not most of it . we have a fundamental disagreement . Solar and wind offer cheap power for our country — why would we possibly say no to that ? the big threat to the countryside be the climate crisis , and solar and wind alongside nuclear be the way to tackle it . I , too , wish you a happy birthday , Mr Speaker . I very much welcome the statement , which be about the future - visioning and future - proofing of our energy security and production . I particularly welcome the £ 2 . 5 billion investment in fusion , include for the STEP — spherical tomahawk for energy production — programme at West Burton in north Nottinghamshire . I thank Ministers for their work to secure that , which be very welcome indeed . the process have already start , with the tender outcome for the construction and the design and technology to be announce later this year . I be champion british company , which be very much part of that process . I be excited about the thousand of job and skill in new infrastructure that will be develop because of this programme . the work have already start on the skill partnership , which be stretch right across region include the east midland , Lincolnshire and South Yorkshire . that partnership be work with our further education college , our university and the advanced manufacturing centre in Rotherham . do the Secretary of State agree that left - behind , red wall area such as mine be where we need investment to revise our energy production and our industry ? this be where we start , and I want to see more . I thank my hon . friend for her advocacy . when I be in discussion with the Chancellor , I do think that if this do not go ahead I would have to answer to my hon . friend and to the Mayor of the East Midlands , so she be a motivate force in ensure that the project do go ahead . her point be crucial : this be about good job in area of the country that really need those good job . last night , I be talk to an apprentice from Sizewell — she go there at age 16 and have be there for a year — about the experience she have have . she give credit to Sizewell . we can see her career in front of she , and we want that for lot more people . assume that the large nuclear power station at Sizewell C and the small modular reactor both prove to be successful , as we trust they will be , what be the Government ' s think about the respective role of each of those two very different type ? which do the Secretary of State think will be the well bet in the long term for the future of the country ? can he assure we that China will have no part in any of this ? on the latter point , yes , I can assure the right hon . gentleman of that . he ask a typically astute question , if I may say so . the truth about these technology , I think , be that the answer be both . we can not really make a judgment about this until we see the SMR programme develop . the SMR programme offer something that have elude nuclear for a long time , which be modularity and replication , and that , as we know from other technology , be the way to bring down cost and speed up delivery . there be huge potential in both , but large - scale gigawatt can also play an important role . I warmly welcome the SMR announcement , which be great news for Sheffield as Rolls - Royce be already do significant work at the Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre . when I meet Rolls - Royce recently , it say that 70 % of its bid could be build and produce in Great Britain . how will the Government hold Rolls - Royce to account for that and ensure that the announcement deliver great job and great investment right across the UK ? I thank my right hon . friend for her incredible advocacy on this issue , include at the AMRC . she make such an important point : this will be taxpayer ' money , and we need to ensure that as much as possible be build in Britain . I make absolutely no apology for say that . the answer to her question be that as we negotiate term with Rolls - Royce over the come month , that will be a key part of our discussion . this £ 14 billion splurge on english nuclear power plant come on top of £ 22 billion for english carbon capture and storage , while there be nothing for Scotland ' s Acorn project . with Grangemouth allow to close and the fiscal regime ruin the north - east ' s energy job , this late announcement show that Scotland be not an afterthought — Scotland be not a thought at all . if nearly £ 40 billion can be find for english energy project , why have money never be find for Scotland ' s carbon capture project ? maybe a change in the SNP ' s position be come . absolutely , if the hon . Lady want , let we have a discussion about scottish nuclear power station . we be in favour of the Acorn project and will say more about that in the come week . but on nuclear power , SNP Members have really get to think again . they be stick their head in the sand . this be about job , investment and clean energy . they should really rethink . if I have know it be your birthday , Mr Speaker , I would have bring you down a Chorley cake , but never mind . as you know , my constituency host Heysham 1 and 2 nuclear power station . as the Secretary of State be aware , I be push for Heysham also to host new nuclear . will he tell I how today ' s announcement support nuclear community such as mine and will enable the next generation of nuclear across the country ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . to get slightly into the weed , the new planning framework that we be consult on open up possibility for new nuclear . today we have set out the public money that we can commit to new nuclear at this stage . we be see this a bit in the US and in other country with a 50 % increase in nuclear investment last year globally . my message to the private sector be that if it be interested in partner with we and say to we , " we want to build in place other than those where you ' ve put the public investment , " we be absolutely open for business and dialogue . the Secretary of State will be aware that it be originally propose to build a third nuclear power station , base on a chinese design , at Bradwell - on - Sea in my constituency . be a third station — it will not be chinese — at Bradwell still a possibility , or could it be allocate an SMR ? good nuclear site , include Bradwell , be always go to be possibility as far as I be concerned . we be not go to have China build our nuclear power station , but if the right hon . Gentleman want to discuss this with my Department , we will be happy to do so . it be clear that this Labour Government be put pound behind promise to deliver clean energy and good , skilled job in all part of the country . with that in mind , give its importance to north Wales , will my right hon . friend confirm that great British Energy Nuclear will prioritise Wylfa ? I be glad that my hon . friend have ask that question . Wylfa be an incredibly important site that have huge potential for our country . obviously , over the month ahead great British Energy Nuclear will look at the role that Wylfa can play in relation to smr and large - scale nuclear . the Secretary of State ' s message to the private sector be , " if you want to build new nuclear , Britain be open . " company have tell I that they need decisive and committed leadership from the UK Government to be confident to invest in a new project at Wylfa . I have raise that 11 time in the Chamber , yet today there be no mention of Wylfa . will the Secretary of State make it clear that the UK Government support the delivery of new nuclear project at Wylfa ? yes , we do . again , we be open to discussion with the hon . Lady and other colleague . I will not say " happy birthday " to you again , Mr Speaker ; perhaps we can arrange to sing it next time so that we do not all have to repeat it . the Secretary of State ' s statement be welcome . the other welcome news today be the Government ' s commitment to £ 460 million of investment at Sheffield Forgemasters . that be primarily for defence nuclear , but it also provide extra capacity for civil nuclear . there be a bit of concern about Rolls - Royce ' s link with Czechia , so will my right hon . friend commit to use forging from Sheffield Forgemasters in the first - of - its - type SMR in this country and build the supply chain so that the vast majority of job be provide for british worker ? I definitely believe that Sheffield Forgemasters have an incredibly important role to play in our civil nuclear programme . contractual detail for Rolls - Royce and our discussion with the company be for a bit down the road , but in my view , Forgemasters be central to our plan . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . Oldbury in my constituency be one of the site under consideration for smr , and I have be tell many time that it have many factor go for it , include GB Nuclear ' s ownership of it , the nuclear expertise in high education locally , its exist nuclear history and the potential for co - ordination with the Berkeley site . give that the old nuclear power station have already be decommission , the local community want to know what the future look like . will the Secretary of State confirm that Oldbury be still in the running and will he give a timeline for the decision ? as part of the process that we go to from here , great British Energy Nuclear will look at what be the right place for the SMR fleet and , absolutely , Oldbury be one of the candidate . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I also wish you a happy birthday , Mr Speaker . what a wonderful day today be prove to be . as a proud Derby MP , I be delighted to welcome the selection of Rolls - Royce to deliver the first of the UK ' s small modular reactor . we know that the Secretary of State , his ministerial team and the Mayor of the East Midlands be champion of clean energy job . do the Secretary of State agree that today ' s decision be good news for the country and for Derby ? also , in back home - grow smr , what will the benefit be for UK worker and those in the east midland region ? I thank my hon . friend for his advocacy for Derby and for Rolls - Royce . it be important to say to the House that this be a fair and open competition , conduct at arm ' s length from Ministers . Rolls - Royce come out as the winner and I be incredibly pleased about that . the possibility for Rolls - Royce be huge in what it can do for smr in this country , in the export opportunity and in the job in the supply chain . that be the thing about nuclear : it be about the job not just at the top of the tree but right across the supply chain that we have the potential to create . while I fear that the development of Sizewell C may prove to be a multibillion - pound investment in yesterday ' s technology , I welcome the commitment to smr in so far as it go , which be probably the way forward for tomorrow . we have to get from where we be today to there . why be we go to spend billion of pound and accumulate masse of wastage import carbon fuel from overseas instead of develop our own North sea resource ? on the nuclear point , there be real potential at Sizewell . I understand the implication of his view on that : to learn from what happen at Hinkley — because it be a replica of Hinkley — and therefore to cut the cost and do it quick . the aim be to deliver it cheap and fast . on the wide picture , we may have a difference of view . mine be that we have to get off insecure fossil fuel as quickly as possible . that be why nuclear have a role and renewable have a role , but the exist North sea field will be keep open for their lifetime , so oil and gas will continue to play a role in our energy system . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . new nuclear have the potential not only to power community across our country , but to create job in every constituency . that be why it be particularly extraordinary to hear SNP representative argue against those job . will the Secretary of State confirm how many new job will be create by today ' s announcement and what conversation he have have with workplace representative to ensure that those be genuinely good job , with good term and condition ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about that in all respect . Sizewell alone will create 10 , 000 job at peak and 1 , 500 apprenticeship . for good safety and other reason , there be a strong trade union tradition in the nuclear industry , which we intend to uphold . as for the situation in Scotland , it genuinely beggar belief that the SNP would turn its back on such a huge opportunity . as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on nuclear energy , and have champion the nuclear industry for 20 year in this Parliament , even when it be not popular on either side of the House , I very much welcome today ' s announcement , because I have see over 60 year in my constituency the economic impact of the Chapelcross nuclear power station . return to the subject of Scotland , we see the SNP ' s intransigence , which be cost Scotland job on the nuclear front . will the Secretary of State ensure that if we will not have nuclear power station , we can at least have job in the supply chain ? I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on his long - stand advocacy on the issue , include when it be not popular . he make a very good point : we need to see a change in Government in Scotland , to a Labour party that will advocate for nuclear . the supply chain in all four nation of the UK can play a crucial role in the nuclear renaissance that we be announce today . a very happy birthday to you , Mr Speaker . may I thank the Secretary of State for today ' s announcement , which represent a massive boost for my constituent in Erewash and a huge vote of confidence for Rolls - Royce just down the road in Derby ? how do he foresee the announcement affect the availability of apprenticeship for kid leave my local school in Ilkeston and Long Eaton ? my hon . friend raise such an important point . there be a good tradition of apprenticeship in nuclear . I have see it at Hinkley Point C and we will see it at Sizewell . I be sure , and I will make sure , that we will see it in the SMR programme as well . these be fantastic opportunity for young people and opportunity that we intend to make happen . will the Secretary of State tell the House a bit more about the regulated asset base funding model for Sizewell C ? in particular , will he assure the public that the construction phase of Sizewell C will not be fund by increase to people ' s bill , give that it will be well over a decade — potentially near two decade if we look at Hinkley Point — before it produce any new electricity ? the hon . Gentleman will know that the RAB system that be pass through this House involve the role of bill payer . we believe that that be the right system and will cut the cost compare with Hinkley Point C . the hon . Gentleman appear to oppose many different form of clean power . he oppose transmission infrastructure for offshore wind and solar , he oppose solar farm , he oppose carbon capture and storage , and I guess he oppose nuclear . I have an all - of - the - above position on clean energy ; he seem to have a none - of - the - above position . I be delighted that Rolls - Royce have be select to deliver smr in the UK . it really be time for we to stop delay the new fleet of nuclear power station more broadly . the Secretary of State will remember that he come to my constituency before the election , to the Barnoldswick Rolls - Royce site , and hear that it now support 400 job , whereas pre - pandemic it be 900 . this be a huge opportunity for we to create good skilled job in all part of the country , so will he reassure I that the Government as the customer of Rolls - Royce will demand that those job go to place such as Barnoldswick and all over the UK and that we stop the offshoring of manufacturing ? I be incredibly impressed by what I see at Barnoldswick . I have to maintain a position of neutrality when I become Secretary of State as to who win the competition , but I be incredibly pleased that Rolls - Royce win the competition fair and square . my hon . friend make an important point about make sure that the job go to place such as Barnoldswick . I be sure that Rolls - Royce will want to do that . Capula , base in Stone , be an example of a great british company that have be supply the electricity - generation industry in this country for many decade . to get the very good for british job , how can business such as Capula link in at the very early stage with the Government as they start to plan how the investment will be make ? the right hon . Gentleman raise an important issue ; let I take this away . as we embark on this golden age for nuclear , we need to make sure that the supply chain really benefit . perhaps he could furnish my Department with the detail so that we can think about how such company can benefit ? I welcome today ' s announcement . I have be speak to people from across my constituency — cleaner , hospitality worker and other — who desperately need the cost of bill to come down . how will the project announce today , and the other step the Government be take to counter the impact of uncertainty in global energy market , help to stop people in Heywood and Middleton North be out of pocket ? my hon . friend raise an important point , which be that this be about plan for the long term to get off the rollercoaster of fossil fuel , which be insecure . we see what happen when Russia invade Ukraine . let I give the House one fact : if the Sizewell C plant have be up and run at the time of that crisis , bill payer would have save £ 4 billion in 2022 - 23 alone . that be the security that new nuclear can give we . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . I would like to ask the Secretary of State what guarantee be in place to ensure that these job go to local people rather than to overseas contractor ? also , what investment in training and skill will be provide to make sure that they go to local people on the ground ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point that member on both side of the House have raise in different way . it be absolutely part of what we be go to do to make sure that these job come to the UK . there be commitment around 70 % of the supply chain spending be in the UK , and my Department will ensure that there be accountability on the part of the company that will be benefit from public money , to ensure that we see the maximum benefit across the country in the UK . I warmly welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement today . unfortunately , it be not for viewer in Scotland . Scotland be once a pioneer in nuclear energy , and it should be again , but due to the SNP Scottish Government ' s outdated , backward and frankly bizarre opposition to nuclear energy , they be turn away billion of pound of investment and thousand of high - skilled job . do he agree that this be yet another way that the SNP Scottish Government have lose their way ? my hon . friend be so right about this . People in Scotland will be look at these announcement and say , " why isn ' t it we who be benefit from this ? why be we not even in the race ? " we have lot of member say that they want their area to benefit , yet the Scottish Government and the SNP be say that they want no part of it , and no part of those job . that make no sense . I also welcome — [ interruption . ] it be very unusual for I to welcome anything from the Secretary of State but I welcome this announcement , because nuclear be an important element in provide the baseload for electricity across the United Kingdom . he mention delivery five time in his statement , but this be an announcement not a delivery , and there be a period when we will still need the baseload to be provide . can he tell we how he intend to ensure that the baseload be provide in that interim period , and what discussion he have have with the Economy Minister in Northern Ireland about the suitability of smr for supply in Northern Ireland ? the right hon . Gentleman and I have be discuss these energy issue for about 17 year since he be the spokesperson on this , and agreement be rare between we , so I really welcome what he say . I would say to he that these be the step we have to go through to deliver , and they be incredibly important . to reassure he on his point about the Economy Minister in Northern Ireland , my hon . friend the Energy Minister will be meet they next week . we believe that this can benefit all four nation of the United Kingdom , and it be 100 % our intention to make that happen . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to secure our future energy supply and , by do so , take control of our energy , protect family finance and tackle the climate crisis . in addition , I be keen to learn about the Department ' s assessment of new technological development to reduce energy waste , in particular through develop underground thermal energy storage solution . I be aware of organisation in that sector that be keen to share opportunity with the Government , so what be the Secretary of State ' s assessment of the role of thermal storage solution in reduce energy loss , avoid curtailment fee and maximise the benefit from energy generate ? I know that my hon . friend have be strongly advocate on these issue in term of the exciting possibility for his constituency . my suggestion be that a Minister from my Department — perhaps the Minister for Energy — should meet he and the company concern about the potential involve . the announcement today be good news as far as it go , but the baseload that it will provide will not be on tap for many year to come . how do the Secretary of State propose to fill that gap ? will he now look again at the UK - Morocco power project , which need a decision soon and could be deliver electron by the turn of the decade ? do the announcement today affect the likely contract for difference and strike price eventually reach with the propose operator ? we be look seriously at the Xlinks project . the right hon . Gentleman be a tireless advocate for it , and I respect he for that . my answer on the baseload question be that we need a combination of thing to meet the power that we need , and there be all kind of different way in which we can do that . I would also say that part of the job that we be undertake be to make sure that we can get Hinkley Point C deliver as quickly as possible , because that can also make an important contribution . on his last point , the decision today do not affect the decision on Xlinks . those be separate decision . I welcome the statement today , which be move towards an energy mix that be less weather dependent . I also welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement of investment in nuclear fusion . there be one constant about nuclear fusion , which be that , start from the original idea in the 1950 , it have always be 50 year in the future . the International Energy Agency be still predict that the early that nuclear fusion will be provide energy on to the grid will be the second half of this century . do the Secretary of State agree with that , and if not , why not ? my hon . friend be definitely right about the old saying on nuclear fusion . I think maybe it be come a bit close . there have be really important breakthrough , particularly in the UK , and we be determined to invest in they . I do not think anyone can say for certain when it will arrive , but the prototype fusion project be a really exciting step on that journey . Penblwydd hapus I chi , Mr Llefarydd — happy birthday to you , Mr Speaker . the nuclear community at Trawsfynydd remain disappointed not to be on GBN ' s SMR site and will continue to push for that and also for alternative use . security of supply of medical radioisotope be critical to avoid the ethical nightmare of ration diagnosis and treatment for a range of disease include cancer . the Welsh Government ' s Project Arthur will see north Wales become the home of a public sector national laboratory to produce medical radioisotope . what be the Secretary of State ' s Department do to help the Welsh Government to realise Project Arthur at Trawsfynydd ? this be why these statement be important . I think I need to check the answer , because I do not want to give a flippant answer to the right hon . Lady ' s incredibly serious question . let I write to she to give she a proper answer . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . while I welcome this fantastic announcement , Scotland will unfortunately not benefit due to the SNP ' s ideological block on nuclear power , block billion in investment and thousand of well - pay secure scottish job and block growth across our scottish community . do my right hon . friend agree that Scotland and , indeed , Ayrshire need a new political direction , and that the only way to get that will be at the ballot box next year ? my hon . friend put it very well . I notice that SNP Members have sort of disappear ; they be probably a bit embarrassed . she be absolutely right about this . in a sense , it come into sharp focus today because we can announce a golden age of nuclear with our investment , but not in Scotland because of the position of the SNP Government . it make no sense . happy birthday , Mr Speaker . energy security be important , so I welcome this investment in nuclear . one more small modular reactor can power a million home use just two football pitch - worth of land , while solar need 2 , 000 acre of good - quality farmland to power 50 , 000 home . will the right hon . Gentleman consider the importance of food security as well as energy security , reconsider the use of good - quality farmland for solar , and concentrate instead on produce nuclear ? we be operate under the previous Government ' s planning guidance when it come to the good agricultural land . on the hon . Lady ' s wide point , we need all the clean energy resource that be at our disposal — solar , onshore and offshore wind , and nuclear . I be for all of the above . I inform the House that the Government will make a statement later today to give an update on the middle east . today ' s announcement that £ 2 . 5 billion will be invest in the small modular reactor programme be fantastic news for the country . it will help bring energy bill down , power home and create job . it be amazing news for Derby , too , because the technology behind the smr have its root in the technology develop at Rolls - Royce Submarines half a century ago . as the Government move forward with investment and delivery , and the Secretary of State approach the contractual aspect , will he ensure that we build on what we have in Derby , such as the Nuclear Skills Academy , and the good job already there , so that we can grow opportunity for the wide region and the country as a whole ? my hon . friend put it incredibly well . Derby should be incredibly proud of Rolls - Royce win the competition , and incredibly excited about the possibility for young people in Derby and across the wide region . now we must ensure that , work with Rolls - Royce , we deliver on that promise , and that be what we intend to do . the hon . member for Waveney Valley ( Adrian Ramsay ) ask perfectly reasonable and pertinent question about the cost of this whole project . be there a private finance initiative element involve , and what will it cost ? how ultimately will we dispose of the nuclear waste , and who will pay the decommissioning cost in 60 year ' time ? the nuclear industry do not have a great record on strike price , decommissioning cost or the cost of deal with waste . the right hon . Gentleman ask perfectly legitimate question . I be glad to say that decommissioning be in at the beginning of the financing model , as part of the overall cost . we will lay out total cost when the final investment decision be make . similarly , on the regulated asset base cost — I know that he genuinely care about the climate crisis — all the evidence we have show that this be our low - cost alternative , compare with other low - carbon technology , so it be a crucial part of the energy mix . I congratulate the Secretary of State and the Labour Government on this incredibly important investment announcement . as a physicist by training , I particularly welcome the investment in fusion technology , as well as traditional fission . I be sure that this investment will bring close the final outcome that we want . will he ensure that the benefit of this investment be feel across all our community by use a predominantly UK supply chain , and will he ensure that all aspect of the nuclear jigsaw receive Government support , include the provision of nuclear fuel , the decommissioning and safe disposal of nuclear waste , and even the reuse of currently stockpile nuclear waste product in future generation of reactor ? my hon . friend make an important point : across the lifecycle of nuclear and across the supply chain , there be important economic opportunity . the importance of realise that potential be a constant theme of the question that we have hear today , and that be what we intend to do . global tech giant such as Microsoft and Amazon have announce plan to use smr to power their data centre , so they have trust in smr . I happen to believe that they should be the future of nuclear in this country . I have a couple of question for the Secretary of State . the announcement state that a new public company , GB Energy Nuclear , will be set up . will he set out why a new company be require , how much it will cost the public purse , and why it be base in Warrington ? I have nothing against Warrington , of course , but why have the decision be make to place the company there ? will he outline when he expect meaningful deployment of the modular reactor ? the hon . Gentleman ask good question . on the first , GB Energy Nuclear be a development of great British Nuclear , which be base in Warrington . on deployment , I be aware of the record of people who promise deployment that be then not deliver , but the truth be that we expect a final investment decision in the next few year , and deployment in the early to mid - 2030 — I think that be the fairest way of put it . I agree with he about the potential . I also agree — this be why I have say that I be open to the role of the private sector — that private sector partner may want to come in and build soon , and that would be great . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I welcome the investment in our energy security and job . I know from my visit to Sizewell with the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee that job in the nuclear industry be good , well pay and highly skilled . do the Secretary of State agree that that be in part thank to the strong relationship between business , trade union and the Government in that sector , and that there be much to be learn from that relationship in other part of the energy sector and beyond ? my hon . friend characteristically put it incredibly well . the nuclear industry offer we a model of good employee relation , and there be a good , strong role for trade union in ensure safety and guarantee good term and condition for worker . that be a lesson that other part of the energy industry , include the renewable sector , can definitely learn from . new job in clean energy be very welcome . many of the skilled job at Hinkley Point C in the south - west be go to young people from beyond the area . give the social mobility challenge in East Anglia and west Somerset , will the Secretary of State comment on investment in college and skill to encourage application from the local area for those new job and apprenticeship ? the hon . Gentleman put it incredibly well . that be certainly my impression when I go to Hinkley Point C , when I see the impact that it have on the local economy . we want to do the same at Sizewell C . there be plan to start a local college , model in a way some of the stuff that be do at Hinkley Point C . he be so right about the massive opportunity here , which we must exploit . as a child , Sizewell be an important word to I , like Wylfa , Hunterston , Dungeness , Dounreay and Hinkley , because they be place where my father , base in Gateshead , go to work . will the Secretary of State assure I that the announcement be part of bring back those fantastic safe job , which be so important for Gateshead and the nuclear industry ? I be glad that my hon . Friend ask that question and talk about his heritage and family history . that reflect something real . the nuclear industry have a great tradition in this country . it go through a sort of extended hiccup , I think it be fair to say , but it be really important that we bring it back . those be good , long - term secure job that people can take pride in . we should absolutely embrace that . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on fusion energy and for the east midland , I say a huge thank you on behalf of my constituent and my region for the two major announcement : Rolls - Royce win the SMR contract , and the £ 2 . 5 billion for fusion energy . do the Secretary of State agree that such large infrastructure project offer huge apprenticeship opportunity for my region , and will he commit to meet I and the Mayor of the East Midlands , Claire Ward , to discuss how the Ratcliffe - on - Soar power station can play its role ? I congratulate my hon . friend on his two - hat advocacy on these issue . he make an important point . the potential of the new prototype fusion plant be huge , as be the wide potential of nuclear . I look forward to discuss that with he . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and the clear positivity in every word he have say . I very much welcome the news that nuclear energy be to be secure for the United Kingdom , bring job security and many contract , and we look forward to see how we can all benefit across this great nation . can he confirm that company from the United Kingdom will be able to secure contract to supply material and manpower ? how can Government ensure that each area of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland will benefit from this massive investment ? it be really important that there be a four - nation approach to the supply chain contract ; that be something I be very keen to ensure . there will be thousand of contract in the supply chain , with huge opportunity for Northern Ireland , and I be determined to deliver they . Andy Burnham ' s Atom Valley mayoral development zone for advanced manufacturing will be base in Rochdale , Oldham and Bury , and it be so name in honour of Ernest Rutherford ' s groundbreake research at the University of Manchester on split the atom . do my right hon . friend welcome the fact that today ' s huge public investment in both nuclear and nuclear fusion will rely on precisely the kind of cut - edge research that will be do at the Sustainable Materials and Manufacturing Centre in Rochdale ? I congratulate my hon . friend on that question and on the new centre , which be incredibly appropriately name . we should celebrate our history on these issue , and the way to honour our history be by build the future for nuclear — that be what today be all about . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have give the Speaker ' s Office advance sight of this point of order on process , follow proceeding last night in relation to new clause 82 table to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , which be not put for a separate decision . first , I want to say very clearly that this be no criticism or challenge of the decision of the Clerks , Deputy chair or Chairs , for whom I have immense respect , but it be a request for clarification on the process and the decision that be come to last night . with your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to ask the following . new clause 82 be accept for a separate decision yesterday , and it be sign by over 70 member of Parliament . the Member who table the new clause , the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , have indicate outside the Chamber before the conclusion of the proceeding that he would not push the new clause to a vote , and that be his right . however , advice be give to the Chair that the Chair have discretion not to mention or put the question at the conclusion of proceeding , despite the new clause be allocate for separate decision through the usual channel ; thus , when the conclusion of proceeding come , there be no mention of new clause 82 . Precedent in this House say that another Member who have sign the amendment can push the new clause to a vote . however , that option be not give to a member who wish to do so and have sign the amendment . " Erskine May " state under paragraph 28 . 139 , title " Conclusion of proceeding on consideration " : " if the time available for debate on consideration under the term of a programme order have be exhaust , Standing Order No 83e be engage . in order to bring proceeding to a conclusion , the Speaker must put forthwith the follow question ( but no other ) : a . any question already propose from the Chair ; b . any question necessary to bring to a decision a question so propose ; c . the question on any amendment , new clause or new schedule select by the Speaker for separate decision ; d . the question on any amendment move or motion make by a Minister ; and e . any other question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude . " another example come in Standing Order No . 32 , which say in sub - clause ( 1 ) : " in respect of any motion or any bill under consideration on report or any Lords amendment to a bill , the Speaker shall have power to select the amendment , new clause or new schedule to be propose thereto . " sub - clause ( 5 ) state : " the power confer on the Speaker by this order shall not be exercise by the Deputy Speaker save during the consideration of the estimate . " I have a concern that this have set a precedent . over 70 member across the House who have sign a new clause do not have the chance to put it to a vote last night . the Member who table the clause speak to it and outline the measure that it would bring into the legislation . I be worried that member from all party across the House who have sign amendment and new clause will not have the opportunity to put they to a vote just because the Chair decide they have the discretion to eradicate that question from be put in the proceeding of this House . I would be grateful for your clarification , Madam Deputy Speaker , and maybe you could offer a meeting with the Principal Clerk , so that I can discuss my concern about this issue . I thank the hon . member for advance notice of his point of order . I can assure he and the House that nothing irregular or , indeed , unusual take place last night . it be usual for the Speaker to give provisional advance notice of amendment and new clause that be expect to be select for separate decision . however , it be not infrequent for the Chair to make change base on new information that come to light during the course of the debate , particularly when the lead signatory to an amendment or new clause indicate that they do not wish to move it . only an amendment or new clause that have be move by a Member need to be withdraw with the leave of the House before the question be put . this only apply to the lead amendment or new clause in any group . in this instance , the Member have not be call to move the new clause , so there be nothing to withdraw . it be wholly appropriate and normal for the Chair to decide not to call a new clause or amendment for a separate decision when the lead signatory have indicate they do not wish to move it . ideally , this indication should have be make in the course of the debate by the Member who table the new clause . the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) know very well how to touch base with the Table Clerks and the staff in the Speaker ' s Office . Bill present British Indian Ocean Territory ( Sovereignty and Constitutional Arrangements ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Priti Patel , support by Andrew Rosindell , Wendy Morton , James Cartlidge , Mr Mark Francois , Helen Grant , Jesse Norman , Alex Burghart , Andrew Griffith , Sir Mel Stride , Mr Richard Holden and Mike Wood , present a Bill to make provision about sovereignty and constitutional arrangement in respect of the British Indian Ocean Territory , also know as the Chagos Archipelago ; to prohibit the making of payment of public fund to the government of another country in connection with the sovereignty or constitutional arrangement of the British Indian Ocean Territory , unless authorise by Parliament ; to require the Secretary of State to consult and engage with british Chagossians in relation to any propose change to the sovereignty and constitutional arrangement of the British Indian Ocean Territory ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 13 June , and to be print ( Bill 258 ) . freedom of Expression ( Religion or Belief System ) motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about freedom of expression in relation to religion or belief system ; and for connected purpose . I do not believe that Mohammed be a Prophet send by God . I do not accept the instruction he say he receive from the Archangel Gabriel . I do not accept that the Sunna , or body of islamic law , have any relevance to I . I respect the religious belief of other , but I do not mind if Mohammed be satirise , criticise or mock . I be not a Muslim , and I choose not to live by the moral code set out by Islam . I be a Christian , and I should make it clear that I do not think anybody should be prosecute for satirise , criticise or mock Jesus either . England and Wales abolish blasphemy law in 2008 , and Scotland abolish they in 2021 , but even then , those law have not be use for decade . the last blasphemy trial take place in 1977 , and the state have not bring a public prosecution for blasphemy in more than a century , but now , blasphemy law be back . I have be advise not to refer to two high - profile case of people be arrest , charge and prosecute for cause harassment , alarm or distress to Muslims or even , nonsensically , to Islam itself . while I will keep my speech to the conceptual , I invite the House to recall that there be real example of what I raise in the criminal justice system right now . the issue be the way that section 4 and 5 of the Public Order Act 1986 be be use — far beyond the intent of Parliament — to police what we can and can not say about Islam . I will come to the detail of section 4 and 5 , but first I want to say something about the intent of the Public Order Act . the long title of the Act make it clear that its purpose be to abolish some common law and statutory offence to make way for new offence relate to public order . nowhere in the second Reading debate from 1986 do anybody raise the need to protect religion or follower of religion from offence . the context of the Act be football hooliganism and the riot in Brixton and Broadwater Farm . it be true that part III of the Act create new offence relate to racial hatred , and this be amend to include religious hatred by the racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 . however , section 29j of the Public Order Act , to which we will return , say : " nothing in this part shall be read or give effect in a way which prohibit or restrict discussion , criticism or expression of antipathy , dislike , ridicule , insult or abuse of particular religion or the belief or practice of their adherent " . we can therefore be confident that the Public Order Act , even as amend , be never intend to become a blasphemy law . that obvious conclusion be reinforce by the fact that the controversy regard blasphemy and Islam in this country begin two year after its introduction , in 1988 , with the publication of " the Satanic Verses " . since that year , and the protest and fatwa against Sir Salman Rushdie , our public conversation about Islam have be limit through a mixture of self - censorship and more official restriction , such as the definition of Islamophobia accept by many public body . these restriction be motivate not by a desire to avoid offence — consider the criticism and mockery make of other religion — but by fear of a violent response by those who be offend . some say public order offence be not the same as a blasphemy law , and that it can be legitimate to prosecute somebody for say something that might cause wide disorder . perhaps in some circumstance that may be so , but we should interrogate this line of thinking . first , the Crown Prosecution Service give the game away by charge one man with cause " distress " to the " religious institution of Islam " , which be pretty much the dictionary definition of blasphemy . secondly , twist the law to make a protestor responsible for the violent reaction of those who will not tolerate the opinion of other be wrong ; it destroy our freedom of speech . some argue that although this may be regrettable , it be now an unavoidable consequence of the multicultural society in which we live today . by this logic , the state must police the boundary between different ethnic and religious group to avoid disorder , but we should be clear that that mean state intrusion and a loss of liberty on some occasion , and mob rule on other . this be the very essence of the two - tier policing row we have see recently : rough justice for those belong to identity group that play by the rule , and freedom from justice for those belong to group willing to take to the street and threaten violence . this be the logic of use the Public Order Act to prohibit we from say what we like about a religion . a person may be find guilty because of the violent reaction of those offend by their action . from Sir Salman Rushdie to the Batley teacher still in hiding with his family , the threat of violence be what lie behind these new blasphemy law . perhaps we should not be surprised . there be at least 14 muslim - majority country where the penalty for blasphemy or apostacy be death , and we have significant diaspora population from many of they . with the number of people here who come from those country grow and the increase assertiveness of organise political Islam in Britain , this be a problem that seem likely only to get more severe . but the answer be not to surrender to the mob ; it be to hold the line , and that be why today I bring forward this Bill . I say early that section 29j of the Public Order Act protect " criticism " , " insult " and even " abuse " of " religion or the belief or practice of their adherent " . however , that apply only to part iii of the legislation , because part III introduce offence relate to racial hatred , later amend to include religious hatred . nobody think section 4 and 5 , which in part I of the Act make it an offence to cause " harassment , alarm or distress " by use " threatening , abusive or insulting word or behaviour " would be use to criminalise the expression of opinion about religious belief . this Bill would therefore extend the scope of section 29j to the whole Public Order Act — thus prevent the use of section 4 and 5 as a de facto blasphemy law — and would apply section 29j also to section 127 of the Communications Act 2003 and section 1 of the Malicious Communications Act 1988 . in so do , this Bill would restore free speech as it apply to religion in England and Wales . it would stop the police , prosecutor and judge from create a blasphemy law from legislation that be never pass for that purpose . it would send the strong powerful message from this place , where political power legitimately and democratically reside , that this country will not tolerate intimidation , violence or censorship , that there will be no special treatment here for Islam , and that there will be no surrender to the thug who want to impose their belief and culture on the rest of we . question put and agree to . order , that Nick Timothy , John Cooper , Dr Luke Evans , Mr Richard Holden , Robert Jenrick , Rupert Lowe , Rebecca Paul , Jack Rankin , Sir Alec Shelbrooke , Bradley Thomas , Tom Tugendhat and Sir Gavin Williamson present the Bill . Nick Timothy accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July , and to be print ( Bill 257 ) . datum ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Lords message I inform the House that nothing in the Lords Message engage Commons financial privilege . before clause 138 - statement and bring forward of a draft bill : copyright infringement , AI model , and transparency over input I beg to move , that this House insist on its disagreement with the Lords in their amendment 49f and propose , in lieu of the Lords Amendment , amendment ( a ) to Commons amendment 45 , amendment ( b ) , ( c ) and ( d ) to Commons amendment 46 and amendment ( e ) to the Bill . I fear it be an inevitable aspect of ping - pong that there be a degree of repetitiveness about our proceeding . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) , say last week that it remind he of the film " Groundhog Day " , but that refer to the Pennsylvania Dutch superstition that if a groundhog emerge from its burrow on 2 February and see its own shadow , it will retreat to its den and winter will go on for six more week . well , I can see my shadow and I just hope that ping - pong be not go to continue for another six week . last week , I cover some misconception about the content of the Bill and what we be try to achieve separately in relation to artificial intelligence and copyright . I fear that some of those misconception persist . the Guardian carry the following sentence this weekend : " the AI Bill , which propose allow ‬ tech company to use copyright material , have suffer ‬ a fifth defeat in the Lords . " that be repeat by one of the presenter on the " Today " programme , who state that the Bill allow AI company to use copyright material . I be glad the " Today " programme have apologise and correct ‬ the record . let I reiterate : this be not an AI Bill and it do not propose change copyright in any regard whatsoever . if the Bill go forward in the way propose by the Government , there will be no diminution in the robustness of the UK copyright regime . sometimes I want to say , in the word of Richard II , " you have mistook we all this while . " ‬ ‬ I accept what he say at the start of his speech , but the industry be desperate : its intellectual property be be steal day by day , and the Minister do understand that it want a timeline and a vehicle . I hope he will confirm that the Government be go to bring one forward . the right hon . Gentleman know that I be not go to do that . he also know that the enforcement of copyright law be not a matter for government because it be not the Government who enforce it . I have the enforcement regulation in my hand . chapter VI of the copyright , Designs and Patents Act 1988 make it very clear that infringement be actionable by copyright owner . in common with many bit of the law and with statute law in the UK , enforcement be not normally by Government . it be by either the prosecute authority or by people take a civil action . those be the measure that exist in copyright law today and we be not change they in a single regard . have say all that , I acknowledge the strong feeling express in both Houses about the need to protect the intellectual property right of 2 . 4 million people who work in the creative industry in this country , include the significant proportion of the creative industry represent by the tech industry , which this week be celebrate London Tech Week . it must be say that their lordship have be persistent , so much so that they remind I of a poem by Robert Browning , " a Toccata of Galuppi ' s " , about the 18th century venetian composer Baldassare Galuppi . it use several musical term , such as the dominant , and include the line : " Hark , the dominant ' s persistence till it must be answer to ! " the Lords have be persistent , which be why we have not just listen to they ; we have hear they , and we be answer they . although the Bill , which be draft largely by the previous Government , do not originally refer to the matter of copyright at all , that be why at a previous stage we table specific requirement on the Government to produce an economic impact assessment of the option available to we and to report on key issue , include transparency , technical solution , access to datum and copyright licensing within 12 month . in response to their lordship , we be go several step far . first , we be add two further reporting requirement on approach to model train overseas and on how transparency and other requirement should be enforce . secondly , in response to the call for we to work fast — meet the point just make by the right hon . member for Skipton and Ripon ( Sir Julian Smith ) — we will deliver the economic impact assessment and report within nine month , rather than 12 month . thirdly , we be introduce a new requirement that the Secretary of State make a progress statement to Parliament about the document within six month of Royal Assent . the Minister be be generous , as always , in give way . I welcome the amendment — I think they be helpful and useful — but they miss out and exclude transparency , which be what this be all about . the Lords , the creative sector and artist around this country want a commitment that this Government will deal with issue of transparency . why will the Minister not sit down and compromise with the House of Lords and ensure that we get a solution that work for everybody ? in the end , the single most important compromise will be between the AI sector and the creative industry sector . that be the bit that we need to negotiate over the next few month . I disagree with the hon . Gentleman about the idea of simply put one part of the jigsaw into this Bill . the truth be that if we be go to get to a proper compromise solution , it will require all the bit of the jigsaw to be put together into a comprehensive picture . that mean that we need to go through a proper process . the last time we discuss these thing , the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) refer to the noble Lord Peter Mandelson and amendment that he think be table to deal with Napster in the Digital Economy Act 2010 . because I have some spare time over the weekend , I read all the debate on that Act in 2010 , and we go through a process to get to that Act : we produce a White Paper and then legislation , which go through both Houses . it be introduce in the House of Lords by Lord Mandelson and in the House of Commons by Ben Bradshaw . in fact , most of that Act be so controversial that in the end , it be never implement by the Government who take over in 2010 , and large chunk of the Act be take out when it collide with the 2010 general election . I be not sure that thing be quite as the hon . Gentleman think at the time , but the key point be that we need to go through a proper process of bring forward conciliation in this area . that mean introduce legislation once we have consider the response to the consultation , bring forward our economic impact assessment , consider all the different aspect that really matter to the creative industry and the tech company , and then consider legislation . I want to do that as fast as we possibly can , because I want to get to a solution for all of this problem . the Government have table amendment to put these commitment in the Bill . the amendment be initially table in the other place , but they be not vote on by peer , who instead insist on the amendment that we disagree to last Tuesday — in fact , as I understand it , the amendment be not move . they show our commitment to ensure consider and effective solution , as I have outline , and demonstrate that we have unequivocally hear the concern about timing and accountability . we need to do one other piece of work . the House already know that we will bring together work group to consider transparency and technical solution . they will have AI and creative industry representative on they and will be extra - parliamentary . I thank the Minister for be so generous with his time . on that point , will he outline how the Government will decide which parliamentarian will be on the advisory group and how they will be choose ? I be about to come to that — my hon . friend have a fast timeline than I have . there be of course expertise in Parliament , which be why I commit today that the Government will convene a series of meeting to keep interested parliamentarian inform on progress on this important issue , so that we can benefit from their input as we develop our thinking before any formal proposal be bring back to Parliament . the work group meeting will include a cross - party group of Members , make up of mp and peer . we hope that the group can act as an informal sounding board , but it be not intend to replicate or replace the normal scrutiny role of established body , such as Select Committees . I see that the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , be in her dutiful place as usual ; I would not dream of seek to tell her Committee what to do or how to conduct its business , but we would none the less like to be able to draw on its member and their expertise . will the Minister give way ? I think that might happen . late on Friday night — after hour and to an unmonitored inbox — email suggest that approach be send to the Chairs of the two relevant Select Committees : the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee and the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . that be the first that have be hear of it . an all - colleague email go round on Saturday morning . this seem to be rather hurried , breathless and not very courteous to the House . the Minister have write two very respected book about Parliament , and I be sure that he do not intend disrespect , but we need to be clear that scrutiny be do through Select Committees and that policymake be a separate thing . combine the two be not really appropriate . I completely agree with the last point that my hon . friend make . Scrutiny of Government legislation through the proper process in either this House or the other House — or through Select Committees , for that matter , which do it in a slightly different way — be one thing , and the business of develop policy be another . I completely apologise for the inadvertent send of the email to the wrong address and all the rest of it . we be simply try to engage as many member in this House and the other House as we possibly can , on a matter that clearly matter to a great number of member of Parliament because of their constituent . that include my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , who I know have a very large creative community in her own constituency . we want to involve as many people as we possibly can . we may be move fast on occasion than people want , but sometimes the demand be that we move fast . I apologise for the inadvertent discourtesy , but we be simply try to engage as many people in the future debate as we possibly can . will the Minister give way ? before I do , I will say that because my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch be the Chair of the Liaison Committee , I wonder if it would be useful if she and I meet in the next few day with the Chairs of the two most relevant Committees to discuss precisely what shape all that should take and what would be useful and informative , rather than do anything that might undermine the process . the Minister partly answer my question as he go along there . my thought on the group be that it be really important that we get creative voice into the room to have that conversation . once the group be form , will part of its remit be to invite member of the creative industry in to discuss their concern and how we can work together to solve they ? order . before the Minister respond , I remind he that we have only an hour for the whole debate . we have four Back Benchers wish to contribute . I feel tell off , Madam Deputy Speaker , but thank you very much . I have be tell off for talk too long , for talk too short , for go too fast and for go too slow . my point be that we be already commit to create two work group that will look at transparency and at technical solution to the problem that we face . both of they will have member of the creative industry and member of tech and AI company engage in they . in addition , we want to have a separate group of member of this House and the other House who be engage with and have an interest in the subject to help we to develop these policy area . I think it be good to keep those separate , and that be the plan . as we know , the Secretary of State have already write to the Chairs of the relevant Select Committees , but I hope that what I have just say be helpful . indicate assent . I see that I be get a slight nod from the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee about the prospect of our meeting to sort out a way forward on that . I will say a few word about ping - pong . some peer have suggest that different rule apply because the Bill start in the Lords . that be simply not true . double insistence would kill the Bill wherever the Bill have start , and I take people at their word when they say that they do not want to kill the Bill . it have important measure that will enable digital verification service , the national underground asset register and smart datum scheme to grow the economy ; that will save NHS time ; that will make vital amendment to our police law ; and that will support the completion of the EU ' s adequacy review . its provision have the support of all party in both Houses , which be why I urge this House to accept our amendment in lieu and urge the Lords not to insist on their amendment but to agree with we . it be worth point out that if their lordship do persist , they be not just delay and imperille a Bill that all party agree be an important and necessary piece of legislation ; they be imperille something of much great significance and importance economically : our data adequacy with the European Union . the successful renewal of our EU adequacy decision be predicate on we have settle law as soon as possible , and we will not have that until the Bill gain Royal Assent . I can not overemphasise how important this be , and I be absolutely mystify as to why the Liberal Democrats — of all party — would want to imperil that . I be equally mystify by the position of the conservative party . they table amendment in the Commons Committee and Report stage that be almost exactly mirror by what we have already add to the Bill and be add today . I very much hope therefore that the conservative party will agree to our motion . it be not as if it disagree with any of the measure in the Bill . I be grateful to the noble Baroness Kidron , who say in the Lords , " I want to make it absolutely clear that , whatever transpire today , I will accept the choice the Government make . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 4 June 2025 ; Vol . 846 , c . 755 . ] it be a point she reiterate later in the debate when she say , " if we " — that is , the Lords — " choose to vote on this and successfully pass it , I will accept anything that the Commons do … I will not stand in front of your Lordships again and press our case . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 4 June 2025 ; Vol . 846 , c . 773 . ] the noble Baroness be right . in the end , only one House be elect ; only one House constitute the Government of the day ; and , especially where a Bill be adumbrate in a general election as this one be , the unelected House tread carefully . that be all the more important when the govern party have barely a fifth of the member of the other House . we have listen to the other House and take action . there may be disagreement about the measure we have take , but it would be wrong to say that we have not listen . it be time for the Houses to agree that the Bill must go forward . I will say one final word about creativity . we live in an exceptional age . when our parent be young , they be lucky if their family have a television or a record player . they might occasionally go to a gig , concert or play . if they do have a television , they have a choice of just two or three channel . by contrast , today we be surround by human creativity in a way that no other generation be . technology have bring we multiple channel where we can pick and choose whatever we want , whenever we want to see it . we watch more drama than ever . we can listen to our own choice of music on the train , on the bus or in the car . we can play game online with friend on the other side of the world . More book be publish than ever . we can read or listen to they . almost twice as many people go to the theatre last year as go to a premier league match . there be many challenge , all of which we need to address , include that of the interaction of AI with human creativity , but creativity be a quintessence of our humanity . it require human - to - human connection , and I do not think for a single instant that that will change . I call the shadow Minister . it feel like we be go from " Groundhog Day " to " lose in translation " because the Government clearly be not get the message . today I will try something different and tell the House a story — the story of this debate : a story be read in the deep dark wood , AI see the book , and the book look good . " where be you head to , original tome ? come here with I , and I ' ll give you a home . " " that ' s awfully sweet of you , but no , I ' m meet my author , and they say where I go . now I like you , and I don ' t want to cause strife but they make I with love and word shape by life . so if we ' re to partner , please do ask they first , to not would be naughty , " he say with lip purse . perhaps I owe Julia Donaldson an apology , while also thank she for the national treasure that be " the Gruffalo " — I look forward to the third book in the series . we do not use AI , which be useless , to draft it , just the skill of one of my team member Jacqui Gracey — human skill , talent and transparency over source and work . transparency be fundamental to protect creative endeavour . no one can doubt that the Minister have do his good to demonstrate the endure nature of the creative spirit in the face of adversity and to avoid commit to a timescale and to legislate on transparency . this week , it be a new parliamentary working group . last week , it be review . next week , it may even be a citizen ' assembly , but the creative industry be not buy it . our noble colleague in the other place be not buy it . member of Opposition party , and indeed some member on his own Benches , be not buy it . they be not buy it because the Government have lose the confidence of their stakeholder that they would bring forward legislation to enact effective and proportionate transparency requirement for AI model in the use of their creative content — AI company need to buy it . it be this loss of confidence in the Government ' s will to take decisive action that mean that nothing short of a commitment to bring forward legislation will be enough to allay the fear of the creative industry . I thank the hon . member for his creativity in his speech . the heart of the debate be whether creative be ask before we steal their material or style , but also that they be remunerate for that . that be a commitment we have hear from the Minister and from the Secretary of State in his medium performance on the weekend . this problem predate this year . it date back to stuff be steal over a considerable number of year . why do the last Government not take any initiative to ensure that creative receive their just reward for their creativity ? what the last Government do not do be release a consultation that have a ministerial foreword to say that the position of copyright be uncertain . what they do not do be say their preferred option be opt - out , which spook the creative industry and cause all these problem in the first place . it be this Government ' s ham - fiste approach that cause so many of the problem that they be now try and fail to fix . the Government have play a large part in create this problem . I be not go to let the hon . Gentleman get away with that . the last Government do not do anything on this issue , basically because they do not understand what be go on , and the little they do understand about some of the threat from AI , they do not care . as he ask the Labour Benches to do yesterday , the hon . Gentleman should apologise for the last Government ' s inaction over the past few year because a lot of this be down to they . will the hon . member give way ? order . perhaps the hon . Lady should allow the hon . member to respond to the first intervention before he take a second . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . as I say , this be clearly a tricky area to legislate — I have say that at the Dispatch Box and in Committee many time — but what be not help be the uncertainty that have be create throughout the debate , whether it be the position of copyright law , preferred third option or the status of opt - out , which be how we get into this pickle in the first place . there seem to be mass amnesia break out across the Chamber because the last Government do do something on this : they set up a work group between AI company and the creative industry . they cancel it . no , the AI company walk away . we be almost at risk of recreate history by this Government want to set up exactly the same working group and think that by do the same thing again , the outcome will somehow be different . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee , who be also try to break we out of the groundhog day that we seem to have find ourselves in . the Lords amendment do not fetter the Government ' s policy option , nor do it prescribe how proportionate transparency should be achieve . it simply put a line in the sand for the Government to act on this hugely important issue . to return to the AI and the Gruffalo , so on go the story through the deep dark wood to be love by its reader , as a good book should . yet the AI ponder , as it want it now . " I ' ll simply just scrape it " , the AI do avow . when he be muse , he stumble across the author recline on a patch of green moss . they have glass and notebook and idea galore . they have print five book , but be work on more . their eye come to meet — they be in for a fight . both want the story , but who be right ? the answer be both , if reasonably seek for content , not steal , but license or buy . be clear what you ' re take , be transparent and true , and recognise the content and its real value . then there ' s no monster nor bad guy , just an allegorical rhyme and a plea to listen and take action in time . I hope that the shadow Minister seek permission to misappropriate Julia Donaldson ' s wonderful work . it be hardly an example that any of we should follow . we be back here again . I put on record my thank to Government Front Benchers for their engagement on this issue . it be particularly welcome to see the Secretary of State , in his appearance on " Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg " , take such a human approach to recognise the concern that exist in the creative industry and give a commitment to the nation about the seriousness of what come from this place . I also welcome the Minister ' s comment that the creative and tech sector will be involve in the next phase of this work , because that be essential . however , I would like to stress two further point . first , that involvement must reflect the breadth of the creative industry , from music and publishing to game , film and beyond — the necessary mix of expertise . that mean the creative sector right holder and business affair professional be involve , alongside the tech expert who understand the complexity of data flow , metadata structure , and the practicality of any opt - out system or tech solution that be to be develop , notwithstanding the Secretary of State ' s clarification that the Government no long have a prefer position . we look forward to the consultation and its finding be open and transparent , because while all the creative sector share in the value of copyright as a principle that be tech and sector neutral , the way that commercial licensing model develop in practice will differ , and it be not for the Government to second - guess that . that be not a problem ; in fact , it be a good thing . the emergence of bespoke commercial partnership be precisely how the Government can achieve their objective of drive effective licensing , but to get there , we need sector - specific insight and specialist input , not a one - size - fit - all approach . I welcome the commitment to include Back Benchers , stakeholder and leader of industry . crucially , the Government must consult and liaise with all of we on the formation of these group , include their term of reference — this can not be present again as a fait accompli . too often , we hear of official think or mull thing over , but not share what those thought be or what the implication of their late thought could be . with the good will in the world , they can not know the business as clearly as industry do . I believe that the prospect for both industry have improve as a result of this ping - pong process and the argument we have be have , both in this House and in the other place . my hon . Friend say that the prospect for both industry have improve . I have speak in this place about my previous role as a screenwriter — I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — and this week , the British Film Institute report that AI threaten the british film industry , with over 130 , 000 script have be plunder . do my hon . friend agree that if we fail to take this opportunity to deal with transparency and put power to legislate on the face of the Bill , we will be leave screenwriter and other creative high and dry until we legislate in the future ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention , which as ever be root in the first - hand experience and professional success that bring she to this place . she should be listen to , and her warning about the implication of not take transparency seriously should be heed . secondly , I will return to a subject that I have raise before , because it warrant more scrutiny . that be the recur suggestion that copyright be out of date . on the one hand , we have hear the Government talk about copyright be clear and well establish , and of course we agree with that . only this weekend , the Government clarify again that if no licence or permission be in place , that be theft or piracy . that clarity be precisely what give right holder the confidence , control and legal basis to license their work , which the Government also rightly want to encourage . however , in the same spirit , we sense that the Government still feel that copyright somehow need to be reform or ignore . I ask the Minister to take what I hope be the last opportunity during this process to indicate exactly what reform be be propose , and what it will achieve that copyright do not already do , because the creative industry believe copyright to be good in class as a respected and enforceable measure . if the answer be transparency , personality right , or anything that sit around copyright rather than within it , let we call that what it be , but can we please avoid vagueness , constructive ambiguity , and language that set hare run or undermine confidence in what be frankly a good - in - class system ? finally , if the Government be still entertain the idea that the stability of UK copyright law could be weaken in pursuit of an idea of innovation , many will feel that the shift in tone and position in recent week — which have be deeply welcome — have be counter - productive , and they will be leave concerned . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I would like to either disappoint or reassure the House that , sadly , I do not have a story for Members today . I will dive straight into the amendment that be before we . just three month . after all the discussion and the cry for fairness from the creative industry , which have see the daylight robbery of their life ' s work , the Government be send back an amendment that , in essence , change the economic assessment from 12 month to nine month , with a progress statement and some expansion . I understand that this be the datum Bill , and that this legislation contain many important element relate to the future of our datum , which we must secure . in response to the point make by the Minister , I absolutely understand the importance of secure datum adequacy with the European Union . however , the creative industry be at a critical juncture with AI . many feel that it be already too late , but they be do what they can , fight for transparency and fairness for a £ 126 billion UK industry . the Creators ’ Rights Alliance have already start to see the impact for creator . 58 % of member of the Association of Photographers have lose commission work to generative AI service , with an increase of 21 % in the past five month alone , total an average loss of £ 14 , 400 per professional photographer — approximately £ 43 million in total . some 32 % of illustrator report lose work to AI , with an average loss of £ 9 , 262 per affected UK creator . there be an uncomfortable truth that economic gain from AI — of which I be sure there will be many — will also be meet with economic loss that must be address . indeed , at Old Street tube station , there be sign everywhere at the moment say " stop hire human . " some 77 % of author do not know whether their work have be use to train AI , 71 % be concerned about AI mimic their style without consent , and 65 % of fiction writer and 57 % of non - fiction writer believe that AI will negatively impact their future earning . at this point , the creative industry feel betray , and be ask for solution . I also welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement this weekend . he talk about look comprehensively at the challenge creative will face into the future and about bring legislation in at the right time , but that time be now . last week ' s Lords amendment 49f highlight that the Lords understand the need for separate legislation and ask for a draft Bill look at copyright infringement , ai and transparency about input , which be something that creative have be clear about from the start . I have always highlight the positive impact of technology and innovation , and I have no doubt that creative will also use AI to aid their creativity . however , from musician to film maker and photographer to writer and painter , the work of this massive industry have be swallow up , and creative be leave wonder what that mean for they — especially as they be already start to see the impact . in my constituency of Harpenden and berkhamste I see the creative spirit everywhere . there be : open Door , a caring oasis with wall cover by local artist ; the Harpenden Photographic Society , establish more than 80 year ago , where generation have learn to capture light and moment through their lens ; the berkhamsted art society , where painter and craftspeople gather to nurture each other ' s artistic journey ; and the Berkhamsted Jazz group , who get we up and dance . these creator be the thread that weave the rich tapestry of british culture , and the creative industry permeate our town , include the filming of box office hit such as " Guardians of the Galaxy " and " Robin Hood : Prince of Thieves " at Ashridge . who will be the guardian of this creative galaxy ? why do this theft feel a little less heroic than Robin Hood ? what be more , AI be also a business opportunity . have speak to the UK industry and business actively seek to adopt AI solution , they be also look for transparency for their due diligence . BT serve around 1 million small business customer , and it see a big opportunity to well serve they with AI solution , but it say that transparency would help they do so with confidence . with the work group with creative and AI , we should also bring in the wide industry to unlock the opportunity . from business to creator , the Bill should be see as an opportunity for the economy . creator be ask for something reasonable : partnership , not appropriation . they want to be ask , not simply take from . as we all vote today , I urge member to keep that in mind . it be a bittersweet irony that this week in Parliament there be a display celebrate the art of Parliament . there be more than 10 , 000 piece of work in the archive , from Adebanji Alade to C é line Baumann . they tell the story of our democracy , culture and country . I be strike by one of the late acquisition , " the Magic Hour " by Katharine LiBretto . it be a bewitching screenprint that have the silhouette of Parliament . I hope that now be that magic hour , when the Government can find a way forward to value creative and set a new path for the future . I draw the attention of the House to my be the founder of labour : woman in Tech and the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on financial technology , and to my career in datum and technology prior to become an MP . I welcome the Government ' s new approach to innovate and expedite the process and to leverage the expertise of both Houses and key stakeholder . I thank they for their work on that . just under a month ago , the UK host FinTech Week and the global fintech forum , where business and Government leader from around the world come to participate in critical conversation about the importance of the trust global financial service ecosystem for the physical and digital world . Attendance be so senior and strong because after the global financial crisis the UK have to move quickly to a new model , and hence fintech be bear . a lot of great work be do in this space by the Conservatives when they be in government , even if they could not get their act together over AI and keep the attention of AI company . government regulator , incumbent , entrepreneur and investor work together with alacrity to create an ecosystem that lead the world into fintech . we create ten of thousand of new job , bring in ten of million in inward investment and create more than 20 billion - dollar company . we be in the middle of London Tech Week , which be happen a few mile away at Olympia and be attend by the Prime Minister . there be a technology challenge in the creative industry that need address now , which be why it be great to hear the news today . this be an emergency , and the emergence of AI in recent time have create opportunity and new threat for creative , who rightly worry that their work be often appropriate by AI without reward or recognition . however , we can be a pioneer in this field , develop trust solution that protect creative and set the standard that other will follow . we have demonstrate our ability to do that in the past with fintech , in which the UK hold a 10 % global market share . the UK ' s secret sauce be a unique blend of not just our brilliant talent , light - touch regulation , common business language and soft power , but our common law , which be use by other country . we be an exemplar . other country look to we to lead the way . a crisis be at the door , but we have an opportunity to be on the front foot , ahead of other country experience the same challenge and watch we closely . this country always step up in time of crisis . the UK can and must take a lead position on the fair use of AI in the creative industry and help to protect our creative and their work , which be rightly celebrate across the world . engagement with global player in the ecosystem be important , but we should also be far more focused on the UK ' s home - grow talent and inventive mindset to solve the big puzzle . we can move quickly when we need to , and my message to the Secretary of State and to this House be that we really need to , and have to . I call the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . first , I thank the Secretary of State for send our Committee a letter on Friday evening set out the Government ' s intention for AI and copyright . reflect what the Chair of the Liaison Committee , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , say , both the nature of the letter and the method with which it be receive be almost symbolic of how this whole process have be conduct from begin to end . it be fairly haphazard and chaotic , and it be not entirely clear what the Secretary of State or the Minister intend to happen next , but I be grateful to the Minister for his offer to have a chat to talk we through it . specifically , the Secretary of State and the Minister set out their amendment to the Bill and a plan to set up this parliamentary working group , and we would like to know a lot more about that . I understand exactly what the Government be try to do : they be try to placate peer and bring the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill to a conclusion , as the Minister say . the problem be that they be still not engage with the fundamental existential issue , which be the concern express by people across the creative industry . the Government ' s amendment would expedite the economic impact assessment of the option in the AI copyright consultation . the Culture , Media and Sport Committee and the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee jointly write about that in February . another amendment would expand the scope of the report to include training outside the UK and enforcement , which obviously should have happen from the start . the amendment be all welcome , but they miss the point of the creative industry ' concern that their work and intellectual property be be exploit wholesale , without permission , without payment and without practical mean of recourse and redress . I note that the Minister tell the House on 14 May : " I do not think that what be on the amendment paper today would deliver anything now . " — [ Official Report , 14 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 417 . ] the Government give themselves nine month rather than 12 to conclude what we already know — that their favoured consultation option be completely unworkable — be much less likely to deliver quickly the kind of transparency and enforcement for creator than the amendment propose in the other place . the Secretary of State ' s letter also mention that the Government intend to set up a parliamentary working group to ensure that " Parliament have a voice directly into DSIT throughout this process " . the big fear be that this working group will simply be a channel through which the Government will report back on their own engagement with AI developer and right holder . the Government instead need to be listen to the concern of Parliament and industry stakeholder . maybe then they will realise that this stakeholder engagement exercise between right holder and AI developer have be try before , as I say early , include in the last Parliament . it be scrutinise at the time by the Committee I chair , and each time thing have get nowhere . talk have collapse because the status quo suit rogue developer act in bad faith . they think they have nothing to lose by loot the work and value of our creator and our right holder . if the Government press on with this working group , we will of course engage and do what we can to support , but let we call it what it be : a distraction technique to divert attention away from the fact that the Government have get themselves into a terrible pickle over this legislation . they start a consultation on AI and copyright when they already have state a preferred outcome , and they have be cloth - eare to the legitimate concern of the world - lead creative industry for month after month . they have be virtually drag kick and scream to this position now , where they bring forward a couple of tiny amendment . they have be gaslighte member of all party and at both end of this building who have attempt to draw attention to the situation . they have be somehow pit our world - lead creative industry against AI , almost present they as luddite who be allergic to innovation and technology , when actually these be some of the most groundbreaking and innovative sector out there . they be use AI every single day to produce world - beat piece of creative content . the very nature of how the Government have conduct this legislation pit our creative industry against AI , and that be deeply unfair . it be all not good enough . this be simply a thinly veil attempt to kick the can down the road — and if kick the can down the road be an olympic sport , the Minister would have to add " sport " to his portfolio . if he think that any of we be fool by this , or that it will quieten those who want to stand up for our world - lead creative industry and against the existential threat that they face , he have another think come . rise — order . we have a hard stop at 2 . 56 pm , and I know that the Minister will wish , with the leave of the House , to respond to some of the question that have be ask . Mr Wishart , you have several minute , but please do not go all the way to 2 . 56 pm . I be extremely grateful , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I will not detain the House , as I have just a few comment to make . let I begin by say that it be an absolute pleasure to follow the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) . I have my criticism of the previous Government , but they do not extend to she . she be someone who understand the issue , and someone who be prepared to try to find a solution . whereas the previous Government be appal in the way they deal with these matter , she at least make every effort , through the work of her Committee , to get to the heart of the debate . this have be an extraordinary episode , and I can not believe that we be back here for the fifth time . the issue be usually resolve and deal with in circumstance such as this , and a meaningful compromise be reach between the Lords and the Commons , but that have fail to materialise during what have be a remarkable session of ping - pong . the whole episode have be as interesting and dynamic as it have be entertaining . the Minister and I be elect at the same time — I think we celebrate our 24th year of continuous membership of the House over the weekend . I be sure he will agree that he have never see anything quite like the way in which we have reach this stage , but if he can give an example to the contrary , I shall be keen to hear it — I know that , give his almost photographic memory , he would be able to provide the detail . what disturb I be the Government ' s failure to attempt to secure some sort of meaningful compromise . their inability to do that be quite baffle . I be try to think of a few way in which we might get round this . it might be an idea to get the Secretary of State and Elton John in the same room and lock the door : perhaps when the two of they emerge , we might be able to come up with some sort of solution . we be in the realm of try to find a way forward , and that might be one way in which we could do so . by refuse to listen to the strong view of the Lords and respect the convention that ping - pong be a process at the end of which a workable compromise generally appear , the Government risk undermine their own legislative process . have look at the Lords amendment again , and have listen carefully to the debate the other day , I can not see anything wrong with an amendment that simply ask for a draft Bill contain provision " to provide transparency to copyright owner regard the use of their copyright work as datum input for AI model " . I think that be what we be all try to achieve , and I be surprised at the Government ' s intransigent resistance to a fairly modest attempt to find solution . I have look at the Government amendment as well , and I welcome they . as I have say to the Minister , the one that excite I most involve this House , parliamentary resource and the ability to play a meaningful part in these matter . I hope that he will be able to extend that to all party across the House . even to you . I be thrilled and excite by the prospect of be part of that work , and I look forward to join the Minister , but I think that it must be as open as possible so that every single aspect of this can be harness and use as part of the Government ' s work . what the Government amendment do not do , however — and this be a key issue — be pay attention to the transparency issue . the peer have reject amendment that the Government have table previously . as the Chair of the Select Committee say , the Government be bring these amendment back to try to distract we and give we the impression that they listen to the House of Lords and be near to reach a compromise , but nothing of the sort be the case , because the key issue be the transparency that the House of Lords , the creative sector and artist across the UK want to see . the exist law should be enforce to protect the wage of 2 . 4 million creative worker , and the Government must produce a " meaningful compromise " amendment . it be also entirely possible for the Government to take power to introduce transparency via regulation , recognise the urgent need to prevent mass theft by AI firm at the early opportunity , and I do not know why they have not explore that option . the wage of those 2 . 4 million UK creator be at stake , as be the principle of the rule of law . the creative industry have make it clear that inaction on the Government ' s part be give " big tech " the freedom to break our law and destroy job . copyright be not an abstract concept ; it be what secure our creative success . the Government will win in this House today , and they will probably win the whole debate — they will get their way . however , they have lose the battle . one good thing that have come out of this be the fact that people now understand that our copyright law — our gold - standard copyright regime — underpin the success of the UK ' s creative industry across the board . some of the great artist in the world be from these island , and they have achieve their success because of intellectual property right and our copyright law . to muck about with those as we have over the past few month undermine all that , and undermine the ability of those artist to continue to lead in their sector . I hope that , even at this late stage , some sort of compromise can be find with transparency at the heart of it , and I appeal to the Minister to consider that seriously . with the leave of the House , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall make a few comment , because it be important to respond to some of the question that have be ask . two of my hon . friend refer to the report that the BFI publish yesterday . I warmly commend it to all member , not least because it make point that other have make about AI , but also because it make the point that if film and high - end television in the UK be to be successful in the future , we can not have this critical shortfall in AI education , which be entirely piecemeal at the moment . we know about that in the Department , and it be one of the thing that we want to change . several member have ask who will be involve in the various different group . I want to draw on all the expertise in both Houses to ensure that we can find the right answer . I do not want to undermine anything that the Select Committees might do , jointly or separately , and like my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) , I be keen for all the part of the creative industry to engage in this process . the difficulty be that we might end up with a very large roundtable , and people might have to bear with we when it come to how we structure that . will the Minister give way ? okay , although my hon . friend be not here early . I apologise for not be here early . I commend the Government for engage in a cross - party discussion about AI , which be what the country need to do , but the key issue be ensure from the beginning that the tech company understand that transparency in copyright and AI be not a " nice to have " but an absolute requirement , and that if they will not deliver it , the Minister will . we have say from the very beginning that transparency be absolutely key to our ability to deliver the package that we would like to put together , and I do not resile from that , but it be only one part of the jigsaw that we need to join up . I point out to the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) that some of the item on the amendment paper be thing that the two Select Committees ask we to do . she be normally more generous to I , and to other , than she have be today . she have clearly forget that the last Government introduce plan that would have produce a text and datum mining exemption for commercial exploitation of copyright material without any additional protection for the creative industry . that seem to have slip her mind . we have move a great deal since the introduction of the Bill . the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology — who be sit beside I — and I have move . we have listen to their lordship , and , more importantly , we have listen to what the creative industry have have to say . the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) ask I whether I have ever know anything like this situation . other bill have go to five round of ping - pong , but in the past the row have always be about what be in the Bill , not what be not in the Bill . this be not an AI Bill , and it will not change the copyright regime in this country . I want that regime to be as robust as it ever have be , so that those in the creative industry can be remunerate and earn a living , as they deserve to . that be precisely what we intend to achieve , but we want to get the Bill on the statute book as soon as possible . that be why I need the House to vote with we this afternoon , and I hope that their lordship will agree with we tomorrow . question put . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Lloyd Hatton Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Gerald Jones Anna McMorrin Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard John Martin McDonnell James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Liz Saville - Roberts Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young will Forster Tessa Munt the House divide : Ayes 304 , Noes 189 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that this House insist on its disagreement with the Lords in their amendment 49f and propose , in lieu of the Lords amendment , amendment ( a ) to Commons amendment 45 , amendment ( b ) , ( c ) and ( d ) to Commons amendment 46 and amendment ( e ) to the Bill . planning and Infrastructure Bill [ 2nd Allocated Day ] further consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee on 29 April , on the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , HC 855 . ] New Clause 22 - use of compulsory purchase power for active travel route " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , issue or update guidance on what be to be consider a compelling case in the public interest in relation to the use of compulsory purchase power . ( 2 ) the guidance must make clear that — ( a ) the use of compulsory purchase power for the purpose of develop or facilitate active travel route be to be consider in the public interest ; ( b ) when propose the use of compulsory purchase power for the purpose of develop or facilitate active travel route , local planning authority be — ( i ) require to demonstrate that good effort have be make to consider alternative route option , but ( ii ) be not require to demonstrate that the propose route be the only or good route . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , ' active travel ' mean mode of travel which involve a level of activity on the part of the traveller . " — ( Freddie van Mierlo . ) this new clause require the Secretary of State to update guidance on the use of compulsory purchase order for active travel route . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 42 — alignment of basic and occupi ' s loss payment — " ( 1 ) the Land Compensation Act 1973 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 33b ( occupier ' s loss payment : agricultural land ) , in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) omit ' 2 . 5 % ' and insert ' 7 . 5 % ' . ( 3 ) in section 33c ( occupier ' s loss payment : other land ) , in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) omit ' 2 . 5 % ' and insert ' 7 . 5 % ' . " this new clause , be an amendment of the Land Compensation Act 1973 , would align the occupier ' s loss payment with the basic loss payment at 7 . 5 % of the value of the party ' s interest . new clause 85 — compensation payment — " ( 1 ) the Land Compensation Act 1973 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 30 ( amount of home loss payment in England and Wales ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) — ( i ) omit ' 10 per cent of ' ; ( ii ) omit ' subject to a maximum of £ 15 , 000 and a minimum of £ 1 , 500 . ' ( b ) omit subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) . ( 3 ) in section 33a ( 2 ) ( basic loss payment ) , omit from ' payment of ' to the end of subsection ( 2 ) and insert ' the market value of his interest in the dwelling ' . ( 4 ) in section 33b ( occupier ' s loss payment : agricultural land ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) , omit from ' payment of ' to the end of subsection ( 3 ) and insert ' the market value of his interest in the dwelling ' ; ( b ) omit subsection ( 3 ) . " new clause 107 — Disposal of land hold by public body — " ( 1 ) section 209 of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 ( power to direct body to dispose of land ) be amend as set out in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 2 ) , at end insert — ' ( c1 ) step take in response to a direction under subsection ( A1 ) must — ( a ) include a duty to consider disposal of land for the public good , and ( b ) provide that the difference between the unrestricted value of the land to be dispose of and the consideration for the disposal do not exceed £ 3 , 000 , 000 or 40 % of unrestricted market value , whichever be great . ' ( 3 ) section 209 of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 come into force at the end of the period of two month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . ( 4 ) the Local Government Act 1972 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) . ( 5 ) in section 123 ( disposal of land by principal council ) , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 2za ) but the Secretary of State must give consent if the disposal be in accordance with subsection ( 7 ) of section [ Disposal of land hold by public body ] of the Planning and Infrastructure Act 2025 . ' ( 6 ) in section 127 ( 3 ) ( disposal of land hold by parish and community ) , after ' ( 2A ) ' insert ' , ( 2za ) ' . ( 7 ) subject to subsection ( 9 ) , a disposal of land under be in accordance with this section if it be in accordance with the Local Government Act 1972 General Disposal Consent ( England ) 2003 publish in Department for Communities and Local Government Circular 06 / 03 , as amend by subsection ( 8 ) . ( 8 ) those amendment to the Local Government Act 1972 General Disposal Consent ( England ) 2003 be — ( a ) in paragraph 2 ( a ) ( iii ) , leave out ' and ' and insert , at end — ' ( iv ) the development and availability of affordable housing , and ' ( b ) in paragraph 2 ( b ) , for ' £ 2 , 000 , 000 ( two million pound ) ' substitute ' £ 3 , 000 , 000 ( three million pound ) or 40 % of the unrestricted market value , whichever be great ' ; ( c ) after paragraph 3 ( 1 ) ( xii ) insert — ' ( xiii ) a combine authority ; ( xiv ) a mayoral combine authority ; ( xv ) the Greater London Authority ; ( xvi ) any successor body establish by or under an Act of Parliament to any body list in this subparagraph . ' ( 9 ) the Secretary of State may , to reflect inflation , far amend the cash value that the difference between the unrestricted value of the land to be dispose of and the consideration for the disposal must not exceed . " new clause 114 — development corporation to provide green space — " a development corporation must provide or facilitate the provision of — ( a ) green space , include private garden , balcony , and community garden ; ( b ) the care and maintenance of the green space provide for under this section . " this new clause would ensure development corporation include provision for green space in new development . new clause 127 — repeal of section 14a of the Land Compensation Act 1961 — " in the Land Compensation Act 1961 , omit section 14a . " new clause 128 — community benefit scheme for compulsory purchase — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation establish a scheme for the purpose of provide member of a local community with certain benefit when a compulsory purchase order have be grant within the relevant area . ( 2 ) regulation under this section must — ( a ) require that , where a compulsory purchase have take place , the equivalent of 20 % of the amount for which the compulsory purchase be make must be pay into a community benefit fund ; ( b ) describe the — ( i ) governance of , and ( ii ) purpose for which sum may be payable from the fund ; ( c ) specify the meaning of — ( i ) ' local community ' , and ( ii ) ' relevant area ' for the purpose of a scheme establish under this section ; ( d ) specify the circumstance of compulsory purchase to which the scheme should apply ; and ( e ) specify the proportion of the sum to be payable into the fund by each party to the relevant compulsory purchase . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to establish a community benefit scheme in relation to compulsory purchase . the scheme would require the equivalent of 20 % of the sum for which a compulsory purchase be make to be pay into a community benefit fund by party to the compulsory purchase . Amendment 151 , in clause 93 , page 122 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must , as soon as be practicable after a period of twelve month from the passing of this Act have elapse , publish a report assess the impact of this clause on — ( a ) the achievement of sustainable development , and ( b ) the mitigation of , and adaptation to , climate change . " this amendment would ensure the Secretary of State must publish a report into the success of development corporation in achieve their duty to have regard for sustainable development and climate change . amendment 153 , page 145 , line 10 , leave out clause 104 . amendment 68 , in clause 104 , page 145 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( za ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — ' ( 1A ) subsection ( 2 ) also apply if an acquire authority submit a compulsory purchase order in relation to further the purpose of deliver housing target set out in a local plan . ' " this amendment would provide that , where a compulsory purchase order be apply for to acquire land or property for the purpose of deliver housing target set out in local plan , the prospect of planning permission be grant can be disregard when calculate compensation ( also know as " hope value " ) . amendment 88 , page 145 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( za ) in subsection ( 2 ) , at end insert ' unless the acquire authority state that the whole of the land be be acquire for the purpose ( or for the main purpose ) of provision of sporting or recreational facility in which case subsection ( 5 ) shall not apply . ' " this amendment would enable hope value to be disregard in calculate the compulsory purchase value of land , where it be be purchase for recreational facility . amendment 89 , line 23 , at end insert — " ( ab ) in subsection ( 5 ) , at end insert ' unless the acquire authority state that the whole of the land be be acquire for the purpose ( or for the main purpose ) of provision of sporting or recreational facility in which case this provision shall not apply . ' " this amendment be link to Amendment 88 above . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak to new clause 22 . active travel — cycling , walk and wheeling — be hugely beneficial for health and happiness , and I know there be wide agreement on that point in this House . I welcome the investment be make by this Government in active travel through increase to the budget for Active Travel England , but even when there be willingness and funding to progress a scheme , it can be hard to get a plan off the ground , because landowner can refuse to co - operate . compulsory purchase order be regularly use for road transport project , but when it come to active travel , local authority be reticent . I be grateful to the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , for respond to my write parliamentary question on this matter . on 15 May , he inform I : " the Department for Transport have not make an assessment of the effectiveness of compulsory purchase order power in progress active travel scheme " . that be somewhat surprising give the scope of this Bill , which aim to speed up infrastructure project delivery , but he do reassure I that local authority can use cpo for active travel . however , there be a difference between what be theoretically possible and the reality . in Committee , this issue be raise by my hon . friend and constituency neighbour the Member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) , who be a powerful advocate for cycling . we be inform then by the Minister for Housing and Planning that update guidance be publish in October last year , and that it will be update follow the passage of the Bill . I have be through that guidance , and I can tell the House that nothing in it refer to active travel ; it be cover only in so far as it fall under the umbrella term " highway " . the problem be that those rule work fine for road , but be insufficiently adapt for the challenge of an active travel project . furthermore , this guidance be non - statutory and be an interpretation of current law . the Minister also signpost I to upcoming guidance from Active Travel England . this will support local authority in the design and delivery of active travel route , but it do not include consideration of cpo . again and again when the Minister state that there be already guidance , we see that it be insufficient and do not cover cpo . it be welcome news that , in response to another of my write question , the Government have share that future Active Travel England guidance will include case study of the use of compulsory purchase order for active travel route . however , this be not enough . active Travel England do good work , but it be not the government and will never carry the same weight as statutory guidance . that be why new clause 22 , which specifically require such guidance to be publish by Ministers , should be part of the Bill . all other option have be exhaust . before go far , let I make it clear that I do not believe that cpo should be wield lightly . it be far well to have a constructive relationship with landowner . cpo should be a last resort , but without the threat of one in the back pocket , we be send local authority into negotiation with both hand tie behind their back . my county of Oxfordshire be hugely ambitious in its desire to reduce car journey and roll out a county - wide strategic active travel network link town and village together . in my own corner of the county , there be a clear case for the Thame to Haddenham greenway , which would link the town of Thame with the train station in Haddenham , and allow villager in Haddenham to get safely to Thame and enjoy the town . there be widespread cross - party support for it , and I be pleased that Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire be work closely together to progress the project . I thank the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , another of my constituency neighbour , for his support . when I be a councillor , resident of the beautiful small town of Watlington tell I just how valuable a cycleway between Watlington and the village of Lewknor would be . Lewknor sit just off junction 6 of the M40 , and it enjoy good bus connection to London and Oxford through the Oxford tube and airport bus . an informal park and ride work well enough , but would it not be so much well if there be a cycle route cover those 2 . 5 mile ? yet I learn early on that the landowner have no intention of co - operate , even though an old railway would be a perfect route , and the project be stop dead in its track . it may surprise member that the issue this new clause seek to address have already be consider closely by our colleague in Wales . in 2019 , the Welsh Assembly , as it be still call , look in detail at the issue . the Economy , Infrastructure and Skills Committee make some observation within the context of the Active Travel ( Wales ) Act 2013 that I think be relevant to build the case for well guidance . the committee be cross - party and chair by an am for the Welsh Conservatives . it receive evidence from Sustrans that : " without effective support to ensure that land be make available , key section of route which could make everyday journey viable could take year to be deliver , or not be deliver at all . " Sustrans suggest that the CPO process be a block on active travel route , as objection to cpo may be make on the ground that there be one or more alternative — albeit low - grade — route option , leave local authority vulnerable to challenge . as a result , local authority be discourage from begin a lengthy and costly CPO process . the committee receive further evidence from Sustrans that : " great guidance and support be need for local authority " . it conclude with a recommendation that the Welsh Government should work with local authority and other stakeholder to find way to " unblock " the process of use CPOs to develop cycle route . perhaps recognise this problem , in response to another write question , the Minister yesterday point I in the direction of public path construction under the Highways Act 1980 for the creation of active travel route . although I be grateful for his response , it raise more question than answer , and I be sure he will be pleased to hear that I will be submit those question through MemberHub . I have previously work with local group who want to get right of way register , and it be simply not possible for the highway authority to create public path where none already exist . the application process require statement from multiple people show continuous use over at least 20 year , which do not work for a route that already can not be use due to private ownership . before I wrap up , let I give another shout - out to the work of the Welsh Government , who have recognise that funding for active travel can be hard to find and be often assemble piecemeal . this give rise to a chicken - and - egg situation : why seek a CPO if there be no funding , and why get fund if there be no viable route assemble ? in Wales , guidance therefore require a compelling public interest in acquisition , but not immediate financial readiness ; in contrast , in England , guidance emphasise the importance of demonstrate financial readiness . will the Minister therefore consider follow in Wales ' s footstep ? I ask the Government not to dismiss my concern around the inadequacy of the current guidance or the good work of their colleague in Wales . a government serious about active travel would engage with these issue , as I be sure this Government will want to do follow this debate . finally , I will spend a few moment on other new clause and amendment , include those table by my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) . the Bill remove hope value to improve the use of cpo for some project , but there be further project that would benefit from a similar policy . amendment 88 and 89 would ensure that hope value be not add to the cost of recreational facility such as play field when an authority purchase the land with the intention of keep it as a playing field . remove hope value be particularly important in an area like Oxfordshire , where any whiff of development massively increase cost . in fact , it be one reason that so many small and medium - sized farm will be catch by the Government ' s change to agricultural property relief . if this House accept the principle of disregard hope value , that should also apply to the value of land for the purpose of inheritance tax for farm that remain farm . I also support new clause 107 , which would create a duty for any public body to consider the public good when sell land or property . I be aware of local organisation and good cause in my constituency that be look for space to support their activity where land be dispose of by local authority . it be right that local organisation benefit when public body sell land or property , such as the man ' s shed movement , which seek to improve mental health by offer practical hobby in a space where people can meet and share skill . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to speak to these new clause and amendment . I humbly ask Members across the House to support new clause 22 . it be fantastic to speak in the Chamber on a subject that have be part of my career for the well part of 20 year . I start work in the construction sector as a civil engineer and finish my time work on major programme around the world . planning , and particularly plan in respect of national programme and major infrastructure , have be a headache for I for a long time . the prolong wasteful consultation that happen on major programme , which stop the urgency and prevent an outcome - focus approach to deliver the major infrastructure that we need , be almost like death by a thousand cut for a lot of community . it be death by consultation and fatigue ; it mean that people do not engage in the process , and it drive a culture of nimbyism rather than a culture of want to deliver the home and school — the civil and social infrastructure — that we desperately need , and that everyone across this House call out for in their constituency . I be excited that the Bill have generate so much interest in the subject of planning and infrastructure . I be amazed to read through all the fantastic amendment that be table , many of which I suggest sit outside the core scope of the Bill , which be about speed up delivery and deliver on the key mission of the Government , but it be fantastic none the less to see so much debate on the nuance , whether it be swift brick , active travel or those other matter that be critical to create last community that people want to live in . I look forward to the continued activism from those across the House who have table amendment and speak so passionately about planning — I be sure it be not just for clip for social medium . I recognise what the hon . member for Henley and Thame ( Freddie van Mierlo ) say about new clause 22 . my big concern be that force change — compulsory purchase be one such example — do not change behaviour . that be something we have see before . as the subject of conservative leaflet that say I be go to run ULEZ in Northampton during the election , I know it be something that can become weaponise when we try to force it through , rather than bring community along with we . I do not think the approach that have be set out today be the right one , but I look forward to hear further debate on that . I want to talk a bit about development corporation . have work around the world in a variety of different scenario and see how different country set up delivery vehicle to deliver major programme for housing and new city — the infrastructure that we need — I be really pleased to see the introduction of additional power to enable we to deliver more quickly and to put urgency back into delivery , whether we be develop new home or town . the increase power in the Bill will be critical to ensure that we have flexibility in the way we deliver those home , so that they reflect the local community , and that we have sustainability at the heart of a development , so that local community and body can work together to ensure that the place we deliver through the new town programme in particular be green and sustainable in the long term . those power will also ensure that we can incorporate local need — I be particularly excited to see the transport provision in the Bill . often , even in Northampton , I see too many small community disconnect by the lack of transport , because of a lack of thinking about how people be go to get from place to place , which be so critical when we create new town . ultimately , that be about create place , because we be not just create new town ; we need to create place where people want to live , work and stay . we can not do that without development corporation . I have see the power for good that such corporation can be in place like east London . I spend a small amount of time live in Newham , where I see the power that the London Legacy Development Corporation have post the Olympics to transform a deprived area of London , which be fantastic . I wonder now what more it could have do with the additional power introduce in the Bill . for I , it be critical to create that local ownership and that drive to deliver , and it can not just come from the top down . the change in the development corporation arrangement be one of the most undersold part of the Bill , and will enable we to deliver the home that be desperately need by the hundred of thousand of people live in temporary accommodation in hotel right across every single one of our constituency . I do not think this be the end , but I would just reflect that there be plenty more to do on this subject — I have have this conversation privately with the Minister . there be a whole host of thing we can do around digital planning , for instance . I be pleased and surprised to see that we be already trialle AI in the planning process in the UK , which could radically improve the way that we deliver project across the UK . it could mean that community be not live in uncertainty for week and even month as overstretch , under - resource planning authority try to work through the backlog that have be leave after austerity and the many cut the Conservatives make to local government . there be also work to do on building regulation . it be great to hear swift brick debate yesterday , but there be well way to deliver on that . on the delivery of major programme , there be definitely further work to do around consent and how that be deliver through nationally significant infrastructure project . this be a fantastic Bill , but the next stage really be about delivery . the Government must now move from policy focus to delivery focus . we need to look at how we make Natural England and the nature restoration fund work . how we ensure that we work with partner from across the sector , from non - governmental organisation through to development organisation , will be critical in make the Bill work . I look forward to work with the Minister and the Department to ensure that it come to fruition . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) . he be very generous in congratulate many member on their amendment and very constructive when he outline his position on this piece of legislation . I know that member across the Chamber will be devastate to hear that this will be my last contribution on the Bill before the shadow Secretary of State make his Third reading speech . [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] I know ! I wish to thank the Minister for his hard work , all the member who contribute to our discussion , and the Clerks and the staff who give we such amazing support throughout what I think be a long , challenging and often frustrating Bill Committee . as a Committee , we all live through the emotional journey of whether Charlton — a team that the Minister passionately support — would be promote . as I say to he during the Committee , he be welcome down to the Den for Charlton ' s next match against Millwall . I will even let he sit on our side of the stadium . as I have say , I wish to thank all member of the Bill Committee for their contribution . I also congratulate those , such as the hon . member for Northampton South , who have table amendment to the Bill — we have have a weird , wonderful and varied number of new clause and amendment . as the hon . Member say , find they to be in scope of the legislation be quite challenging at time , but I trust the Clerks to make the right decision and therefore most of they stand . I look forward to briefly outline the position of the Opposition on some of the new clause and amendment before the House this afternoon . only a small part of the Bill will be discuss this afternoon . the majority of mainstream clause that we be oppose to be in the frustrating and rather emotive session last night . I look forward to challenge the Minister , who might , I think , look slightly less grumpy than he do last night , and to plead with he to accept some of our amendment . then again , Madam Deputy Speaker , I may be dream in that regard . it be clear that the Minister and the Government have a drive mission in this legislation . the opposition recognise that , but he know that we have many disagreement on how to achieve the ambition he have outline . we have be very clear throughout the passage of the Bill — through the Bill Committee , Second Reading , Report and , later this afternoon , Third Reading — that we have many core , fundamental and principled disagreement with some of the measure the Minister have propose . although we agree that we need to build more house , that we need to see an infrastructure - first approach and that we need to unlock some development , we have a fundamental disagreement with the centralising zeal of both the Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister to get we to where they want we to go . we also believe that the Minister could have look more favourably on some of the new clause and amendment that be table not just by my party , but by other party in the House and by some of his own Back Benchers , who have propose well - intentione and well - mean measure . like other , I sit in the Chamber yesterday listen to the Government vote down so many amendment . we have an opportunity to do something really good with this Bill , and we have miss it . do the shadow Minister agree that , if we be not careful , we will end up with a piece of legislation that will drive a coach and horse through our community and our green belt and that do nothing for nature , for farmer , for community and for the very people who want those thing ? my right hon . friend , not uncharacterist - ically , have make an excellent point and I entirely agree with she . as I say yesterday , the Minister have have a unique opportunity with this Bill — a detailed and potentially groundbreake Bill — to fundamentally change the planning process in this country for the well . he tell we many time on the Bill Committee that he be reflect on some of the genuine point and key concern that member from across the House bring to he . however , those reflection amount to nothing . he consistently say that he would reflect on the genuine principle that we bring forward , but we have see no change in the legislation . we have see no acceptance of our thought and no effort to change this legislation to reflect the genuine concern that so many of we bring to this place . the Liberal Democrats table many amendment and new clause . as the Minister know , I very rarely praise the Liberal Democrats on the Floor of the House or in my constituency of Hamble Valley , and I be not likely to do so go forward . however , what I would say be that the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) and his colleague , the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) , table some really good and principled amendment that would have this improve this legislation , particularly on chalk stream and on some of our other concern . my hon . friend will be aware that government of all stripe tend not to accept amendment in this House , enormously to the frustration of colleague from across the Chamber who put they forward . will he join I in encourage the Minister and his ministerial colleague to take the opportunity to think again on some of the amendment if the Bill be delay in the other place ? all of we want to see more house build , but in a way that work with community . as my hon . Friend say , there be an opportunity here to do something historic , so let we make sure that when the Bill go to the House of Lords — if that be what be require — the Government listen and act . I have put it on the record , both here and in the Public Bill Committee , that I think this be a principled Minister who know his stuff . therefore , he should not be afraid to open his arm and embrace collective responsibility across the House to make sure that this legislation be well , and that it serve everybody in this country . he need to make sure that the key principle that he want to achieve be actually achievable . I say very strongly , as I do yesterday , that the key thing that he want to achieve , such as these housing number , will not be achieve through this legislation . he still have the opportunity to work with member of all party to make sure that this be a really important piece of legislation . Emeritus Professor Sarah Nield , the chairman of the New Forest Association , write : " the current planning and environmental framework have play a crucial role in protect the New Forest ' s special quality . however , the propose change in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , particularly those aim at streamline planning approval , accelerate infrastructure project and weaken environmental safeguard , would seriously undermine those protection . " this be not a political statement ; it be a statement of concern for our most delicate and valuable rural area . I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . the expert he quote be from Hampshire , so as a Hampshire MP I be bind to say that she be spot on . my right hon . friend be spot on too . many member make contribution yesterday in which they raise concern about the Minister ' s response to some of the environmental concern that be raise , particularly by the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) , but also by the Liberal Democrats and Conservative Back Benchers . there be concern that environmental protection will be diminish under this legislation . the Minister seem , quite frankly , to not take those seriously . the quote my right hon . friend read out be a very good example of why there be many people who be expert through their profession and who day to day live their ambition to ensure that the environment be improve . I note that the Minister ' s parliamentary Private Secretary , the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) , have say , " when do you start care about the environment ? " . [ interruption . ] she can intervene on I if she want to , or if she want to contribute to the debate she might want to bob . as I say , member across the House have make very well - intentione appeal to the Minister . I hope that between now and when he wind up he will open up his arm and ensure that he look seriously at the amendment , not just from my party but from all party , that seek to strengthen this legislation . today we turn to part 4 and 5 of the Bill . the Minister will know that we have long - stand concern over cpo . the Conservatives have always stand against what seem to be a sustained campaign against the right and working practice of our agricultural and farming community . through this sustained campaign against farmer , the Government have remove of their subsidy and raise inheritance tax for our farming community , who already do not make huge profit and who struggle in their day - to - day life . the Government have also make their working practice hard . yesterday the Government vote against our amendment to improve protection against solar farm on agricultural land , and I suspect that later today the Minister will speak against our very sensible amendment that would make the life of our citizen who work in the agricultural sector easy . look at the record of this Government , there have be a sustained attack on the agricultural community , and we see that carry on through the Bill . under this Bill , the right of that community be be remove or harm far . we have try to put that right through our amendment , some of which my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) will speak to in his role as shadow Minister for farming . he have do an admirable job in this role of raise the plight of our farming community across the whole of the United Kingdom in the face of what I would say be detrimental impact from this Bill and other action of Government . do my hon . friend agree that where CPO power already exist , there be a massive lack of trust between landowner and the acquire authority ? all too often a proposal will be put on the table , and an agreement will be reach , but then the legal agreement that actually come along be totally different . do he agree that there need to be a CPO code of practice that give landowner much great protection ? my hon . friend be right . I would also say that there need to be a code of practice for our tenant farmer . two of our amendment , which I will speak to shortly , seek to meet the challenge that our farming and agricultural community face with CPO . I will elaborate on that later , and my hon . friend be welcome to intervene on I then if he do not find my explanation satisfactory . I totally agree with what my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) have just say . so many of our constituent , particularly those in the farming community , be already feel totally let down by this government , and they feel that this be a further steamroller on their asset . do my hon . friend agree that the Government might want to show our farming community , who they be already put under immense pressure , that they be on their side on some of these issue , and probably for the first time in a very long time ? so much have already be do to this community — and it do feel like thing be be do to they rather than that they be be listen to as part of any process ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . I plead with the Minister at the beginning of my remark to meet the concern of not only Conservative Members or the Green party or Liberal Democrats but key people who have communicate through consultation on this legislation that this will harm their livelihood and make their life bad . new clause 85 , table by the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , would deliver a fair , more just system of compensation for individual who be force to give up their home or land through compulsory purchase . the current framework under the Land Compensation Act 1973 set arbitrary cap and percentage on home loss and occupi ' s loss payment , which often fail to reflect the true value of what be be lose . by align compensation more closely with the full market value of a person ' s interest in their property , the new clause acknowledge the deep emotional , financial and practical disruption that compulsory purchase can cause . it would ensure that those displace by development be not leave bad off or unfairly penalise . in do so , it would uphold the principle that the burden of public interest project should not fall disproportionately on individual homeowner or landowner , help to maintain trust and fairness in the planning system . the Minister could easily get behind that , as could other party . give some of the real challenge we have talk about that cpo bring to people , the Minister should be slightly more open to amendment to the Bill that would make their life easy . I turn briefly to new clause 42 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , which would align compensation payment more fairly and transparently for occupier affect by compulsory purchase by amend the Land Compensation Act 1973 . it would increase occupi ' s loss payment for agricultural and other land from 2 . 5 % to 7 . 5 % , bring they more in line with basic loss payment . additionally , it would remove arbitrary cap and fix percentage on home loss payment and instead base compensation on the full market value of the interest in the dwelling . the change would ensure that those displace or impact by compulsory purchase would receive equitable and just compensation reflect the true value of their property and loss . by modernise and standardise compensation provision , we would argue that the new clause would support fairness for land - owner and occupier , make the compulsory purchase process more balanced and respectful of individual right , as my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) rightly mention in his intervention . I turn briefly to other new clause . new clause 114 , table by the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington , would require development corporation to provide or facilitate the provision of green space in their development , include a variety of green area such as " private garden , balcony , and community garden " . furthermore , it would impose a duty on development corporation to ensure the ongoing care and maintenance of such green space . I hope that the hon . member realise that I be do he a favour by read out his new clause . the opposition recognise the well - intentione motivation behind the new clause , but I gently say to the Lib Dem spokesman , who yesterday rightly — this be no criticism — make a big play about the role of local authority , elect councillor and local plan , that we believe that this area should be deal with purely by our local government colleague , councillor and planning committee . we should continue to give they the power to serve and react to our constituent ' wish . we be keen that local authority such as mine in Fareham and Eastleigh as well as those across the whole of the country have the power to do that for the people they serve . that be a key disagreement between we and the Government — the Liberal Democrats agree with we — on that provision in the legislation . the opposition believe that new clause 114 be not require in the legislation because local authority can provide for that themselves . I turn briefly to new clause 22 table by the hon . member for Henley and Thame ( Freddie van Mierlo ) . although it be a well - intentione new clause to promote active travel infrastructure , it risk weaken the careful balance that compulsory purchase power must maintain between public benefit and individual property right . by pre - emptively deeming such project to be in the public interest and lower the evidential threshold for route justification , the new clause could enable the use of compulsory purchase order without sufficient scrutiny or community consent , which raise legitimate concern about fairness , proportionality and transparency , particularly in case where landowner could lose property without rigorous demonstration that the choose route be necessary and the good option available . give the Conservatives ' long - hold position on CPOs and the overreach power that the Secretary of State and the Minister want to award themselves in term of cpo , we do not think it would be right to give those same power to local authority or some of the new authority outline in the legislation . be the shadow Minister in favour of use CPOs for road project ? the new clause would simply equalise the opportunity to use cpo to deliver active travel with their use for road project . I understand , and I say this with respect to the hon . gentleman : I think the new clause be well intentione , but road be absolutely necessary . sometimes , on the CPO power currently allocate in exist legislation , even though we disagree with some of the overreach that the Minister want to put forward , we believe fundamentally in the right and responsibility of local government to decide how they want to allocate route in locality . we agree that in some case , as in my constituency , which cover half of Fareham and half of Eastleigh , there need to be well co - ordination between local authority . however , we fundamentally disagree with the extension and provision of power , which we do not believe should be allocate , in new clause 22 . will the shadow Minister explain why the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 create vast new power for development corporation , if he believe that all such power should be discharge by local authority ? I know that be come from the hon . Gentleman . the last government put forward many thing in legislation that we be look at again . we have be very clear about that , and I have be clear about what this new conservative party stand for . we say throughout the Committee stage that we do not support the extension of power within CPOs . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be aware that you be look at I to move on . I will do so and restrict the number of intervention I take , as I be about to wind up . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I know I would bring universal acclaim once again , include from my Deputy Chief Whip , my hon . friend the Member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) . I thank he . we have have a robust debate in this House on this groundbreaking piece of legislation . as I have say repeatedly , much to the Minister ' s embarrassment — I hope he take this in the genuine spirit in which it be say — even though we have fundamental disagreement on the measure that he be take to get what he want later on , we know that he have a well - intentione and principled approach . the Labour party win the election and we know that . however , that will not stop we have principle and robust argument around our disagreement with the method by which he want to get there . as my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) indicate in her intervention , the Minister have — and still have — a chance to listen to some of the well - intentione , educate and intellectual amendment and new clause that have be propose by all party to strengthen the legislation and make it well . will the shadow Minister give way ? I will briefly , but he will let I finish this point . the proposal have be put forward by all party to ensure that the legislation be well and more efficient , but fundamentally serve the people who send we here and who want to see difference in the way in which their country be run . we argue that this legislation do not do that , we argue that this be a massive centralise overreach advocate by the Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister , and we stand fundamentally against it . rise — I will give way to the hon . member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) first because he be a spar partner from the Public Bill Committee — I hope he do not have another quote — and then I will give way to the hon . Lady . unfortunately , I have another quote , which be from yesterday . with regard to the Opposition ' s amendment , can the shadow Minister point to a single measure that would increase the number of home ? all the change direct at the Bill seem to be design to impede development . I also want to ask he what he mean yesterday in his opening remark , when he say , " the last Government build the large number of house in history . " — [ Official Report , 9 June 2025 ; Vol . 768 , c . 693 . ] order . it might be helpful if I emphasise that we be not here to relitigate yesterday ' s debate ; we be here to debate the amendment that have be table today . I be sure the hon . Member will restrict his comment to that . I be expect so much from the hon . Gentleman , give how he intervene on I consistently in Committee with an encyclopaedic knowledge of my previous quote . I do not know that he take such an interest in my career up until this point . I know , as a county neighbour , that he be a dedicated and assiduous Member of Parliament who genuinely stand up for his constituent . I will say to he that my comment yesterday be absolutely accurate . over 1 million home be approve , and many more first - time buyer be give the chance of own a home , under the last government . now , for the first time in history , there be no incentivisation in our housing system for first - time buyer , because measure include the stamp duty relief and some of our help to buy measure be scrap by this Government . this be the first time that we have have that situation . we could have do more , but I be very proud of the last government ' s record on housing . the Minister and the Government need to look at our record on first - time buyer and private buyer , because if they emulate some of our incentivisation method , we would have a well success rate than the just over half of those 1 . 5 million home that independent expert be now claim they will be able to deliver . I thank the hon . gentleman for the entertainment he provide throughout the Bill Committee ' s proceeding , and for his generosity in the Tea Room . talk about reflection , however , would he agree that when one look in the mirror , one do not always like what one see ? the Minister have reflect on many of the proposal that be bring forward in Committee and he have clearly decide that those thing would be well leave in the national planning policy framework , as oppose to be in this legislation . would the hon . Gentleman also agree that we do not have more young people buy and own their own home now than we do in 2010 , and that the reason for that is — order . the hon . Lady will have the opportunity to contribute later . intervention really do need to be short than this . I know that many of my hon . friend be concern to hear about my generosity in the Tea Room . it be simply that we be very tired and I buy an espresso for the Minister , just once . I do offer one to the Lib Dem spokesman , but I have not deliver on that promise — shocking . I expect to see a " Focus " leaflet — or whatever the Lib Dems put out in Hamble Valley — say that be a Tory break promise , but when do we ever take notice of the accuracy of Lib Dem literature ? but I will buy he one , I promise . with regard to look in the mirror and not like what we see , I wake up daily basis and consider how much weight I have gain in this House over the past four year . what I will say to the hon . member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) be that in Committee the Minister consistently say that he would reflect , so she be right ; she have accept the premise of my argument on this . however , not once in this legislation have the Minister make any attempt to take into account our serious concern . he have not change this piece of legislation once . this be a parliamentary democracy and there be not a monopoly on brilliant idea , despite the fact that the Minister like to think he have one . if the Minister want to make the Bill well , he could look openly at some of our amendment and accept they . I know that when he stand up to make his wind - up remark , he will not accept they and that this legislation will therefore not be able to be support by all party in this House . if he have make some change that could have deliver to the people of this country , we would have be able to support it . this be a shame , because some of his genuine and well - intentione attempt to change the housing market in this country will now not be achievable because of the Labour Government ' s intransigence . as I have say , the Minister could have make some decent change to the Bill . we and the Green party and the Lib Dems have serious concern on environmental standard — [ interruption . ] I be a parliamentary private Secretary for a very long time , and I think that pps be suppose to sit and ferry note for their Minister , and not to contribute to the debate . I be have real difficulty with this consistent heckling from the two pps . they be aspire to high office and I really do not think they should be carry on in this way ; I never do — then again , I be never a Minister , so there we go . I be a big fan of they both , of course . I shall finish on this point . the Greens , the Liberal Democrats and the conservative party have a real disagreement on environment standard , and it be still our contention that environment standard will not be improve under this legislation . the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) table a number of amendment because expert have clearly state their concern that environmental standard would be reduce under this legislation . the Minister do not make any concession . on the centralisation and erosion of local power for plan committee , we table a number of sensible amendment — order . the shadow Minister will know that we be debate the amendment that have be select today , on development corporation and compulsory purchase . perhaps his final minute could be restrict to those subject . I hee your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker . development corporation be an over - centralisation of the measure that the Minister be propose , and plan committee will lose some of their power to they . the Minister have not move once on that . the Bill will do more harm than good to the power of local council and our constituent , and it will diminish environmental standard . we stand against the legislation because of the Government ' s intransigence . we will continue to stand up for environmental standard and for local authority ; it be a shame that the Minister have not do so . that be why we will not support the legislation . I be delighted to speak to this monumental piece of legislation , which be so necessary and so important . I can not help but notice that many time in the debate a false dichotomy have be present of a choice between nature and biodiversity net gain on the one hand and planning , infrastructure , housing and development on the other . as someone who come from the most beautiful constituency and county in England — [ interruption . ] you all know it ' s true . I stress that that natural beauty be vital , but that the people of North Northumberland also want more development . too often the debate have be about nature versus development . I note , for example , that amendment 151 assume that development corporation will come into conflict with the need to tackle climate change . I believe that the Bill will be good for our natural world in so far as it unlock the " little and often " development that will help northumbrian to revitalise their rural community and protect natural landscape . as the MP for a constituency with a natural landscape , include a dozen site of special scientific interest and half a national park , I can not help but be awe by that beauty . as amendment 151 acknowledge , our natural world face an uncertain future , with climate change and other pressure . organisation such as the Northumberland National Park Authority and the Northumberland Wildlife Trust do excellent work in stewarde Northumberland ' s unique ecological inheritance . I encourage the Government to continue have a genuine dialogue with environmental group as the Bill progress and be implement in due course . our language and approach must honour our commitment to environmental stewardship , and we need to thread the needle of sustainable development together . perhaps the great threat to the ecological treasure trove that be my constituency be more straightforward : dwindle rural community and the challenge that the next generation face in build a future for themselves in rural Britain . North Northumberland , for example , be age . only 16 % of its resident be child , while 30 % be over 65 — 10 % more than the national average . to bring the hon . member back to the compulsory purchase measure in part 5 of the Bill , which we be discuss today , many resident along the A1 corridor have be severely impact by the Government ' s decision not to continue the development of the A1 . will he consider support our new clause 42 , which would increase the occupier ' s loss payment from 2 . 4 % to 7 . 5 % ? that would help many of his constituent along the A1 corridor . with the new clause in place , they would receive big payment for compulsory purchase order along the A1 corridor . all I can say be simply that I have be work with constituent who have be affect by the compulsory purchase order , and I will continue to do so . the hon . Gentleman and I may disagree about whether that project should ever have go ahead under the previous Government . on rural development , where be the future ranger , conservationist and gamekeeper ? where be the next generation of farm hand to deliver environmental land management scheme ? order . I will keep reiterate the point : we be not go to relitigate yesterday ' s debate , and we should be discuss the amendment that have be table on compulsory purchase order , development corporation and extraterritorial environmental concern . the hon . Gentleman might like to think of a way to weave those topic into his remark , rather than rehash either yesterday ' s debate or a second read speech . I be simply try to make the point that many of the amendment propose seem to set up a false dichotomy between the ability to develop our country , include with housing , and to protect the natural environment . I will give one example of that . Norham parish council in my constituency be try to open up a plot of land for a small development , because it see the value of young family move into the village . that development would go some way towards secure the future of the first school and the community at large . it be not helpful for the parish council to be catch up in red tape , which diminish the possibility of that development happen . a recent local report say that nearly one in two business in rural Northumberland cite a shortage of affordable local housing for staff as a key barrier to business . do my hon . friend recognise the value that development corporation have bring to new town such as Harlow ? new town be a great example of where we can have affordable housing but also the environmental aspect , with green finger and green wedge . absolutely . there need not be this false dichotomy between what development corporation can do and the protection of our natural environment . Rural Great Britain be cry out for " little and often " development . we can get this right , and the Bill be try to deliver that by cut through labyrinthine planning rule so that we can have more home and more infrastructure . if there be no one leave in rural community , the natural world will be without the steward and protector that it require . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I reiterate my thank to all member of the Bill Committee and to the Clerks and official , who I know have plenty to be get on with during our sitting . I be grateful for the support of my colleague for the amendment I have table . the Liberal Democrats ' new clause 22 on active travel , and new clause 114 on open space in new town and other development corporation development , and our amendment 88 and 89 on recreational land , form our key proposal for this part of the Bill . all of they urge the Government to go far when it come to release land value for infrastructure that meet community and environmental need . on part 5 of the Bill generally , our compulsory purchase proposal include that where major permission of over 100 home be not build out , great power to acquire that land for housing would be give to council in a new " use it or lose it " planning permission . I be delighted to hear in the news that the Government be take up that idea — although I gain a slightly different impression in Committee — even if the promise of more conditionally approve compulsory purchase order will not give council the same strong " use it or lose it " power that our amendment would have . wary of your stricture to stay on topic , Madam Deputy Speaker , I hope you will briefly allow I to add my welcome to that of my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) of the fact that , follow the introduction of his private Member ' s Bill , the Government , to their credit , have agree that all new home will be fit with solar panel as standard — his sunshine Bill really be " win here " — bring zero emission a step close , after all the hard work of Liberal Democrat and Labour Ministers on zero - carbon home , before the Conservatives cancel the programme in 2015 . I turn to our amendment on compulsory purchase and development corporation . our community - lead approach be about the essential infrastructure people want to see be put in place ahead of the building of new home . clause 104 could support that by help the building of council and social home . it would reward landowner with a fair value , rather than inflated price from an imaginary planning permission no one have ever apply for , as set out in section 14a of the Land Compensation Act 1961 . our manifesto support that for the delivery of council house , and we be supportive of step that ensure that landowner be award fair compensation , rather than inflated price , for specific type of development scheme . however , at my meeting with farmer in North Curry on Friday , there be concern about the idea — possibly as a result of rumour — that under the clause , farmer would lose land to Natural England so that it could carry out its environmental delivery plan , and in return would get only a reduced payment . I be not convince that be what the clause do , but family farm have have a tough time recently . they provide food for our table , and they have be hit hard by risky trade deal with Australia and New Zealand under the last government , follow by a new inheritance tax on small family farm , the underspend of the agricultural budget , and the closing of the sustainable farming initiative . give all that background , I hope that the Minister will be able to confirm that the compensation proposal in clause 104 , which remove hope value , will extend no more widely than the public interest category , such as social housing , that be insert into the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 and into schedule 2A of the Land Compensation Act 1961 by the last Government . I be happy to write to the Minister on the detail , but in the light of the rumour that be circulate , I hope that he will give that reassurance to those run small farm in Taunton and Wellington , and across the country . I respect the experience of the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , in this area , so we have review his propose new clause 107 , which would remove cap on the payment for compulsory purchase . however , our reading of it be that it relate not to the amount pay for the value of the land or property be compulsorily acquire , which under law must be a fair value , but to payment make on top of the land value . home loss payment , for example , be make , quite rightly , in addition to the property value to reflect the upset involve , but the propose new clause would remove all cap and upper limit on how much would have to be pay for that by taxpayer . under new clause 107 , basic and occupier ' loss payment , which be make to recognise inconvenience , would be increase to the market value of the property , with the result that landowner would be pay the market value twice over for their property , under provision intend only to recompense inconvenience . we can not support the new clause because it would result in a reduction in the number of new social home that it would be possible to provide , as hard - press council , include town and parish council , would have to pay so much money for these over - the - odd compulsory purchase , and taxpayer would effectively be clobber to make sky - high extra payment to those with land interest . the hon . Gentleman just say that CPO power be , to the landlord , an inconvenience . I would say that have a home , farm or business take be absolute devastation , not an inconvenience . the hon . Gentleman know he be talk absolute rubbish because those be not the word I say at all . what I say be that the occupier ' loss payment " be make to recognise inconvenience " . he may have misheard I . I do not say that farmer be an inconvenience or anything of the kind , and Hansard will reflect that . as the propose payment would clobber the taxpayer by make they pay double the land ' s value , we can not support the new clause . on the contrary , we say that people be feed up with money go to private developer , leave local people with little to show for the sacrifice that they be make for new construction project . there be further area where the maximum commercial value of land should not have to be pay by public and community body . under amendment 88 and 89 , propose by my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , hope value would not have to be pay in CPO case where land be be acquire for sport or recreation . her new clause 107 , relate to disposal of land by public body , would ensure that top dollar do not have to be pay where the Secretary of State certify that the disposal be for " public good " ; in those case , a discount price could be pay . as we have hear , another Liberal Democrat amendment , new clause 22 propose by my hon . friend the Member for Henley and Thame ( Freddie van Mierlo ) , would provide a " compelling case " justification for compulsorily purchase land for new footpath and cycle path . know the location of Haddenham and Thame parkway station as I do , I congratulate he on this key proposal , which would really help his constituent . local authority could really do with compulsory purchase power for cycling and walking path . the Devon local cycling and walk infrastructure plan that come out last December say that " certain private sector development … may come forward soon , or later , than anticipate " . local authority do not have any control over when they can put in walk and cycling path . would my hon . friend ' s amendment correct that ? the amendment of my hon . friend the Member for Henley and Thame would definitely provide a much strong justification for a CPO that enable footpath and cycle path to be make . as he say , it would create a more level playing field with the compulsory purchase power already in use for highway . I certainly agree with my hon . friend the Member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) . new clause 22 be a very logical amendment , and there be no logical reason why Ministers should reject it , although that have not stop they so far ; I hope that they break the habit of a lifetime . we be clear in our amendment that community should lead , and should be in the drive seat , when it come to development and land . when people see the infrastructure for which they have be call , it drive more community consent for the home we need and the community that we want to build . we need infrastructure for nature as well . good place to live have garden , open space , park and meadow , so our new clause 114 would charge development corporation with ensure those thing . I remind the shadow Minister that development corporation discharge plan power under conservative government , just as under Labour and coalition government . it be not always local authority that deliver development . it be therefore right to ensure that development corporation discharge their duty as effectively as possible . if and when they build new town and major development , as the Government want they to , they must ensure open space for nature — space that work for people and our environment . amendment 151 would require they to report regularly on their environmental and climate duty . the first garden city be support by a Liberal Government and build without fell a single tree , as the hon . member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) confirm yesterday . their success be emulate , and they be still emulate in the good development , right up until today . the vision be a radical one of bring people and the environment , town and country , and nature and humanity close together . those pioneer ensure healthy place to live in , an objective that our new clause 6 , promote by the Town and Country Planning Association , would insert in the planning objective . today , however , we face the much great challenge of save nature , as well as community cohesion and consent , before it be too late . these amendment may not pass , but make no mistake : there be no great threat to our way of life than the breakdown of trust , which risk destroy community , and the breakdown of our environment , which be destroy nature . those be the challenge that our amendment would tackle head - on , and I humbly urge member to support they . once more unto the breach . I rise to speak in favour of amendment 68 in my name , and I hope to find as much common ground with Ministers as possible . I fully agree with the Government that we need bold reform of the planning system to tackle the housing crisis , and that be what even strong reform of cpo would deliver . we have substantially more home per capita than we do 50 year ago , yet over that time , house price in the UK have rise by 3 , 878 % . the Minister for Housing and Planning be right to argue that housing supply be not a panacea for affordability . there have be 724 , 000 more net additional dwelling than new household in England since 2015 , so the Deputy Prime Minister be right to argue that there be plenty of housing already , but not enough for the people who desperately need it . the fundamental planning reform we need be an end to the developer - lead model , which shelter estimate be on track to deliver just 5 , 190 social rent home per year , despite those be the very property that we need to reduce waiting list and get family out of temporary accommodation . the housing crisis be one of inequality . we must move away from reliance on the vested interest of private developer , whose priority will never align with the public good . amendment 68 be intend to ensure just that . half of England be own by less than 1 % of its population . between 1995 and 2022 , land value rise by more than 600 % to £ 7 . 2 trillion , which amount to more than 60 % of the UK ' s net worth . the amendment would build on Government proposal to give council the land assembly power necessary to acquire site to meet local housing need at current use value , and so would do away with speculative hope value price , which put taxpayer ' money into wealthy landowner ' pocket . that would finally make it affordable for local authority to deliver the new generation of council home that be the true solution to this nation ' s housing crisis . if we couple strengthen compulsory purchase power with a more strategic approach to site identification and acquisition , we could not only increase the amount of affordable housing build , but achieve genuinely sustainable development , and would no long be beholden to whatever ill - suit proposal developer choose to bring forward . the failing of our developer - lead planning system be writ large across my constituency . in the 10 year from 2014 to 2024 , North Hertfordshire and East Hertfordshire deliver a significant expansion of housing supply — 3 , 973 and 7 , 948 net additional dwelling respectively . what happen to local authority housing waiting list over the same period ? they rise from 1 , 612 to 2 , 449 in North Hertfordshire and from 2 , 005 to 2 , 201 in East Hertfordshire . there have be more than enough new home in my area to clear housing waiting list , but the affordable home we need be simply not deliver by a profit - drive model . a further fact stand out : over that decade , during which housing supply and waiting list grow simultaneously in North and East Hertfordshire , not a single council house be build in either authority . it be time for a genuine alternative to this farce . I urge the Government to look closely at the amendment , and to push onwards to create a planning system that once again put people before profit . I will speak to the amendment relate to compulsory purchase power , and to my new clause 128 . I note that much of the Bill and most of the clause will not affect Scotland , but , unusually for a planning Bill , there be component that do affect it . before I talk about the detail of my concern about compulsory purchase power , I want to set out a little of the context , and say why the issue be exercise so many of my constituent . I be privileged to represent the Scottish Borders — the place I call home . it be undoubtedly one of the most beautiful part of the United Kingdom , but it be under attack . the net - zero - at - all - cost agenda of this UK Labour Government , back by the SNP in Edinburgh , be cause huge concern to my constituent . massive pylon , solar farm , wind farm and battery storage unit be ruin the Scottish Borders as we know they , and compulsory purchase power be a key part of deliver many of those project . when it come to infrastructure , such as battery energy storage system , it be not just the Scottish Borders that be affect , but area like mine , Aldridge - Brownhills in the west midland . I support what my hon . Friend say about this feeling like encroachment , and about increase compulsory purchase power . where will it end ? I share my right hon . friend ' s concern . ultimately , this be about choice . the choice that this Government and the Scottish Government be make be whether we protect our natural environment , and the rural community that have sustain food production for many year , or turn they into an industrial wasteland . the compulsory purchase power in the Bill that affect my constituency in Scotland will affect many similar community in England . my constituent in the Scottish Borders have have their fair share of new development . in the Scottish Borders , the countryside be where we live . it be not some distant , remote area that be occasionally visit by tourist from Edinburgh or London ; it be the place we call home . compulsory purchase power must be exercise with appropriate check and balance in order to protect our community , whether in Scotland or in other part of the UK . I now turn specifically to the amendment that stand in my name , new clause 128 , which deal with compulsory purchase and the community benefit relate to it . we all know that when compulsory purchase take place , it be difficult and often devastating for those who be directly affect . too often , though , we fail to recognise the impact on the wide community , especially when it come to new energy infrastructure . we have to improve the relationship between those affect and those acquire the land . compulsory purchase can be a complex and intimidating process . new clause 128 would have require the Secretary of State to establish a community benefit scheme in relation to compulsory purchase , so that the equivalent of 20 % of the sum for which a compulsory purchase be make would be pay into a community benefit fund . I be conscious of time , so will not detain the House for much long . I know that there will not be a vote on my new clause tonight , but if there be any way in which the Government could improve the support provide to community affect by these sort of development through a community benefit scheme , the Bill would be significantly improve . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech about choice , but this be also about fairness . the compulsory purchase power contain in part 5 of the Bill disregard any hope value over and above agricultural value , which be not fair at all for those landowner who be have their land compulsorily acquire . if my hon . friend ' s new clause be accept , the 20 % to which he refer would be 20 % of the agricultural value rather than the market value , as the Government have stipulate , so less money would be go into the benefit scheme . would it not be well if the Government be advocate market value for compulsory purchase , rather than disregard it in favour of agricultural value ? my hon . friend make an excellent point , and I agree with he . I be sure he will speak to those point far when he contribute later . we should be protect the market value and not do anything to interfere with the market — not least because if my new clause be accept , it would improve the community benefit fund , which in turn would benefit the local resident who be directly affect by these type of project . if the Bill could be improve in this way , it would be well for the people who live in rural community , such as those in the Scottish Borders . as we see again yesterday , this UK Labour Government have U - turn a lot over the past few month . I hope they will take this opportunity to listen to right hon . and hon . member from across the House so that we can protect our beautiful environment , protect nature , and do well for rural community . it be an honour to speak in this important debate . I will address three amendment that stand in my name : amendment 88 and 89 , which go together and relate to hope value , and new clause 107 , which relate to the disposal of public land . amendment 88 and 89 be link and represent a simple yet important change to the Bill . they would extend the circumstance in which hope value may be disregard in the event of a compulsory purchase order to include play field and recreational facility . I and my liberal Democrat colleague warmly welcome the important change in the Bill . minister have bring forward measure to reform the CPO process for the purpose of build more affordable home , so that hope value no long over - inflate land price for acquire authority . however , I believe that a prime opportunity have be miss . as such , my amendment seek to include recreational facility such as play field in these provision when an acquire authority — for instance , a local authority — be use a compulsory purchase order to acquire land for use as a sport or recreational facility . they would ensure that hope value would not be apply , thus make the cost more affordable and help to boost grassroots sport provision in community up and down the country . we in Twickenham , Teddington , the Hamptons , St Margarets and Whitton be incredibly fortunate to have a thrive grassroots sport scene , from football to cricket , rugby , hockey , tennis and much more . girl ' and woman ' s football be just one example of the continue growth in grassroots sport in my constituency ; my own daughter play with the grow number of girl ' team at Whitton Wanderers , and Twickenham Cygnets now boast over 300 girl and have 40 woman — Twickenham Swans — on its book . however , they be at the point of turn more away because they simply can not get the pitch space to train and play match . this problem affect many club across the country , and certainly right across the London borough of Richmond upon Thames . at the same time , we have the absolute scandal of Udney Park playing field in Teddington lie derelict for more than a decade , with successive developer pay over the odd for the site , only to be rightly prevent from develop it ; that precious site have numerous protection attach to it . the brilliant Udney Park Community Fields Foundation — a community group in my constituency lead by Jonathan Dunn , who have be a tireless campaigner for grassroots sport — have repeatedly bid for the site to bring the playing field back into community use . the current owner have give notice that he want to sell the playing field , but have not engage with the foundation at a realistic playing field valuation . try to recoup a high purchase price for this precious and well - protect site do not look feasible . extend the Bill ' s provision to play field to allow hope value to be disregard for a compulsory purchase order could allow such site to be acquire by the local authority or another public body . Richmond council , like many other local authority , be hardly awash with cash , but simply have that provision in law would provide leverage for community group when they have to negotiate with developer , as we have see in the case of Udney Park . I be certain that Udney Park be not the only example where this be happen . I be therefore extremely disappointed by the Minister ' s response to these amendment in Committee , which , with all due respect , be contradictory . he reject they on the following basis : " affordable housing , education and health be type of public sector - lead development where the public benefit facilitate through the non - payment of hope value can be directly demonstrable to local community . the Government have concern that the provision would be less compelling for sporting and recreational facility . " – – [ Official Report , Planning and Infrastructure Public Bill Committee , 20 May 2025 ; c . 489 . ] I say that sport and physical activity be critical to physical and mental health , and he say that health be an important public benefit for the purpose of disregard hope value . just yesterday , Ministers in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport state that the Government " be commit to support the growth of grassroots sport across the UK . " the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport make a brilliant speech last night at an event attend by many member in this place to launch the inspirational Lionesses ' campaign to defend their european crown . she be passionate about the importance of grassroots sport and extend opportunity to every community . she have announce £ 100 million of investment in grassroots sport facility , which be extremely welcome . the change propose through my amendment would help Ministers to achieve the important objective of expand sport and recreation ground without cost they a penny . it would not encroach on the principle that the use of CPO power must be proportionate and justify in the public interest , give that Ministers have so strongly and correctly champion the growth of grassroots sport across the UK as be in the public interest . the amendment would apply solely to land that be already sport field or recreational land , where there be local need for that sport and recreational facility and it be at risk of loss to speculative development . it be entirely proportionate and justify in the public interest that CPO power and the removal of hope value should apply in such circumstance , so it defy all logic that minister have not embrace this change and that they continue to oppose it . I look forward to hear an explanation from the Minister . I hope he will at least commit to engage far on this issue as the Bill move to the other place . perhaps he will meet I to discuss it , rather than dismiss it completely . let I turn to new clause 107 , which be also in my name . there be cross - party consensus on the dire need for more housing across our country . the Liberal Democrats have a strong commitment to deliver desperately need social housing , so it be disappointing to see Labour Members vote against our amendment 15 last night to write a social housing target into law . one important way to secure site for social and affordable housing be when public body dispose of land and building . in constituency such as mine , with its royal park , a river and other important protect park and space , site be few and far between , yet week in , week out I see case in my inbox and at my constituency surgery of family on the social housing waiting list for year , with little hope of get out of desperately overcrowded and unsuitable accommodation . I be incredibly proud that Liberal Democrat - run Richmond council have consistently seek to repurpose , and sell below market value , site that it own but no long need to provide for more social home from which family in my constituency can benefit . the council have do this despite the immense pressure on local government funding , but sadly other public body do not feel able to do the same , whether they be national Government Departments such as the Ministry of Defence , key public service such as the Metropolitan police , or arm ' s length body such as NHS England . they all want to achieve as high a price as they can when sell asset that they no long need in order to be able to invest in frontline public service . that be a laudable and important aim , but it price social housing provider , and other public service provider , out of the market , while lose asset from the public sector balance sheet at the same time . new clause 107 would fill the gap in the exist patchwork of legislation and regulation that be somewhat piecemeal in the public body include and be not properly use to allow all public sector body to sell asset below market value for public benefit , whether that be for social housing or for much - need community infrastructure like health facility or a community centre . not only would it extend that provision to all public body ; it would go far still by impose a duty on all public body to at least consider dispose of asset for public good . this wide - range new clause build on my successful campaign in the last Parliament , when I work with a succession of Conservative Housing Ministers to secure a change in the then Bill , which become the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 , that include police authority under exist provision to sell public asset below market value for public good . my campaign be bear of frustration about the fact that the disuse Teddington police station lie derelict in my constituency . a local housing association and the Park Road GP surgery be desperate to obtain the site to expand and provide state - of - the - art gp facility on the ground floor , as well as much - need social housing on the floor above . this Government think that all member of the public be blocker , but I can tell the Minister that the Teddington community be right behind my campaign , and we will fight tooth and nail to ensure that when the Met put the site on the market we can obtain the GP surgery and housing that our community desperately need at a reasonable price , which will almost certainly not be as high as private developer can offer . I secure the legislative basis to achieve that ambition in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , but in many other case the provision be not there or be not use . furthermore , the amount below market value for which some public sector body can dispose of their asset have not be update since 2003 . new clause 107 seek to address that anomaly , although I note that the Conservative Government make a commitment to consult on and review the amount — something that do not happen before they leave office , and something that the present Government have not implement since they take power last year . the Chancellor herself have previously say that surplus Government land be a " huge untapped resource that could create opportunity for the next generation of homeowner . " I warmly welcome the news in March that Network Rail would set up a property company to use surplus land for house building . there be so much more than just Network Rail land , but we need both the legislative basis for public sector disposal below market value and the incentive to achieve those sale . I do not blame the Metropolitan Police Commissioner for want to get top dollar for Teddington police station , especially when I read about the cut that he be have to make to frontline policing and the intransigence of the Treasury when it come to proper funding for the community police that the Government have promise . I say to Ministers that this be rob Peter to pay Paul . we need a duty on all public body , and financial incentive from the Treasury for they to repurpose or sell their asset for community good . we can achieve the home and public service that our country desperately need , not by rip up our green belt and precious open space but by think creatively about how we repurpose exist site , include those already own by the taxpayer . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s response . I rise to speak about new clause 127 and amendment 153 , both of which be in my name . compulsory purchase be a highly emotive and highly controversial subject . indeed , much of yesterday ' s debate be take up by discussion of precisely the new CPO power that the Bill will grant to Natural England and local authority . the fact that under the Bill a farmer in Keighley can be tell how to use his land , on pain of a CPO , as a result of a development in Kent be complete and utter madness , but that be exactly the intention of the Bill . no matter where someone own land , they may be put at detriment by a scheme that be take place elsewhere . that be exactly what the Government intend to do through the additional CPO power : to give Natural England — an organisation with which I have huge frustration and which , dare I say it , be not accountable robustly to a Minister — more power to use compulsory purchase order . I share my hon . friend ' s frustration with Natural England . do he agree that it be a bit strange that we have a Government who say they want to reduce the number of quango , but who have reduce it by one and introduce 27 ? in this Bill , they be give more power to an unelected quango , which risk do far untold damage to our green field , our open space and our farmland . that be exactly why I be so frustrated by the intent of the Government ' s Bill . it give Natural England more compulsory purchase power , more fund through environmental delivery plan , and an ability to scrutinise and , indeed , to dictate to landowner how their land or farm may be utilise . that be wrong , especially when , as I say , a farmer farming in my constituency of Keighley could be subject to a CPO as a result of a development elsewhere in the country . the Government and I absolutely disagree on the right to use CPO , and I really struggle with the expansion of section 14a order , which will allow an acquire authority to discount the hope value of a seize property . property right matter , because they be the foundation of our society . if the state choose to use its power to confiscate the property of a law - abide person , stipulate how that land must be use , and then tell the landowner how much they be entitle to receive , that be wrong — in my view , it be an absolute theft of private property . so - call hope value be not a capitalist trick , a racket or unfair ; it be simply the true market value of the property . that be why I fundamentally disagree with the purpose of the Bill , which entail the Government ' s stipulate that hope value must be disregard over and above the agricultural value that be to be pay . it should not be the law that decide the value of something ; it should be down to negotiation and the market . that bring I to fairness . although I admire the Government ' s aspiration to increase development , the Bill be fundamentally flawed on the issue of fairness , because it take away the property right of landowner — the very landowner who will have be encourage by their local authority to put forward their land to be zone as part of a local plan , and encourage through a service level agreement process to have their land zone for housing , employment or whatever it may be . as a result of this piece of legislation , the local authority , or indeed Natural England , will have the ability to compulsorily acquire the land not at market value , but at agricultural value . the power to which the hon . Gentleman refer , and which his amendment seek to remove — I will come on to speak about it in more detail — be set out in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act . do the hon . Gentleman realise that he vote for that Act ? he vote for these power . but the Government be go way beyond that and give more power to local authority and , indeed , Natural England . if the Minister have go out and speak to anyone in the agricultural world , he will realise that trust in Natural England be shoot , yet the Government be give it more power to compulsorily acquire land and then effectively dictate to our farmer and landowner how their land be to be manage . I be not in favour of that . that be why I urge the Government to consider my new clause 127 and amendment 153 . it be frustrating that , despite this issue be raise in Committee , the Government have not give it due consideration , and I therefore urge they to rethink their position . section 14a order represent an attempt to run roughshod over our landowner . we can debate the merit of that approach , but we must start by call it out for what it be . this Bill extend the section 14a power to parish council and Natural England , and apply the cut valuation of occupier ' s loss , which be a separate payment mean to reflect the disruption to the occupier , not the loss of an asset . that be exactly why I wholeheartedly support Opposition new clause 42 , which would increase the occupier ' s loss payment from 2 . 5 % to 7 . 5 % of what be pay for the land . it add to my frustration that the valuation will be base on the agricultural value , not the market value . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do he agree that one of the flaw of the Bill , which his amendment attempt to address , be that it overreach not only in attack property right in this country and interfere with the market , but in take away key aspect of democratic accountability ? that be why so many of our constituent across the United Kingdom be so concerned about what the Bill attempt to do . that be exactly why I urge the Government , as I have throughout the passage of the Bill — I know this point be also raise in Committee — to realise the huge level of disenfranchisement it represent for landowner . this Bill be not introduce fairness into the system , because it do not enable the state to pay the market value that should be attribute to anything that be compulsorily acquire . that be why I do not support the Bill , and I will be proud to vote against it on Third Reading . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way during his speech against all the thing he vote for under the last government , but I be confuse by Opposition Members . be there no limit to the amount of taxpayer ' money they would give to landowner , rather than to council so that they can build social housing , road and the other public facility we need ? here we have the Liberal Democrats set out their position , and it be a good that they be do so because I fundamentally believe that if a farmer own land and the state seize control of it through compulsory purchase power , it be absolutely right that that farmer should be reward with the market value , not the agricultural value . I know the Liberal Democrats have set out their position that they fully support just agricultural value be pay , not what the land be really worth at market value , and I hope all farmer across the country understand the liberal Democrat position , which be to disregard that hope value . I want to know whether the Government have undertake an impact assessment on the Valuation Office Agency . as we go through the compulsory purchase process , there will be many a challenge — quite rightly — by land agent or valuer act on behalf of those many landowner to understand the true value of their land . I fear that the Valuation Office Agency will not be able to cope with the level of scrutiny there will rightly be of the Government ' s position . my hon . friend have set out some of the challenge the Bill present for the farming community . part 5 provide authority with significant compulsory purchase power , but with no definition or limit whatsoever . for our farming community , this all come on top of the change to agricultural property relief , business property relief and inheritance tax , and the increase national insurance for employer . what be it about the farming community that this government do not like ? the farming community face so much uncertainty not only as a result of the Bill , but because of all the additional pressure , whether it be the family farm tax or the increase in overhead , that be hit cash flow this year . that be why my new clause 127 and amendment 153 — and , indeed , opposition new clause 42 — be so important . it be frustrating that the Government be just throw out these amendment and be not willing to consider they , because they have be put forward in the good interest of our farming community and our landowner , so that the state do not have the control that this Government be willing to give it . I urge the Government to consider these very practical , sensible amendment to the Bill . I be happy to speak today in support of amendment 151 , which be table by my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) . our planning system need reform , but the approach the Government be take in the Bill be sadly all wrong and desperately need to be amend . amendment 151 would compel the Secretary of State to produce a report that address a key principle of my concern with the current house building regime , which be good design . I be pleased that in draft clause 93 , the Government have recognise that good design go hand in hand with sustainable development , but we need to see evidence that the house we be get be actually be design and build well if we be to be confident that we be not just get more of the same from the big developer . no one have ever tell I that they want more energy - inefficient chocolate box home , bury deep in rabbit warren estate and build to maximise developer profit . what we see too often in North Norfolk be home that people do not like and can not afford , but which they must queue up to buy because there be no other option . I be horrify recently to find that developer have put covenant on an entire estate to ban brand vehicle from parking on private driveway — they might as well have market those home as for rich second home owner only . that be not how we want to design our community of the future . the Government be already take step towards good design by accept the provision of the sunshine Bill , introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , which mandate solar panel on new build . it can sometimes seem that politician ignore good idea if they come from opposition party , so I be particularly pleased that the Government have come to share the Liberal Democrats ' view that have solar panel on new build be just common sense . it be not just about the home themselves ; good design be also about how and where we build new house . People be grow tired , rightly , of estate that be design around car use , rather than put public transport or walk and cycling at the heart of design . we can encourage more people to walk or use public transport if we design development in a way that make it easy and attractive to do just that . when we use scheme design to encourage walk and cycle rather than car use , access to public transport rather than car park , and route that take people to town centre rather than bypass , we see the benefit right across society : in reduce pressure on health service , in well natural environment and in more cohesive , resilient community . good design will also support the second key aim that amendment 151 seek to have the Government report on , which be tackle the climate emergency . it be simple : a development that mean few fossil fuel - power car be require to be on the road will be well for the planet than one that do not . I do not think that people in North Norfolk be unreasonable in ask for development to be affordable to buy or rent and sustainable and low cost to heat and power , and to feel connected to community and not a burden on they . my constituent want to end the housing crisis , but they do not want it do through unaccountable , top - down target . they want a design - lead approach to planning and infrastructure development . I hope the Government hear our proposal to achieve that and support they today . in my constituency , we have see the consequence of house building without the infrastructure to match . this Bill be such a miss opportunity : the Government be repeat the same top - down , developer - lead approach that have already fail , sideline community , undermine local plan and cut local councillor out of key decision . that be why I rise today to speak in support of some amendment . the current system often see vital infrastructure lagging or not be deliver for year after house have be occupy because the delivery of infrastructure be leave to developer that submit viability study and variation of condition . we need a planning system that put people and place first , and that include high - quality active travel infrastructure . we be lucky in Stratford - on - Avon to have the much cherished Greenway , a traffic - free five - mile cycle path and bridleway , but we also need cycling and pedestrian infrastructure in high - volume street in our town so that child and young people can travel to school safely and family can access service , while reduce car journey and keep people fit and healthy . in the rural area of my constituency , the two Shires Greenway group be campaign for an ambitious cycling route along a disuse railway . these will link village to the town of Stratford and Alcester in my constituency and then far afield to Evesham . but beyond the feasibility study , the fragmentation of land ownership be an issue . that be why I support new clause 22 , propose by my hon . friend the Member for Henley and Thame ( Freddie van Mierlo ) , which strengthen power to compulsorily purchase land for active travel route . that sound similar to the Otter Trail in my patch , which would link Feniton to King ' s School at Ottery St Mary . do my hon . friend agree that these new active travel path will enable young people to get to school safely ? yes , absolutely . we need to ensure that our new generation of young people be fit and healthy and able to cycle . that would also reduce carbon emission in our town . we need high - quality cycling infrastructure to ensure that all this happen . the hon . Lady be make a principled speech . can she explain to the House why she do not think the current local plan regime be adequate to ensure that we have sustainable travel route ? bring cpo into such area would be regressive to people ' s right and responsibility . I thank the shadow Minister for his question . let I take the case of the disuse railway in my constituency . it be not in public ownership any more , and it be fragment . we can fund as many feasibility study as we want to invest in cycling infrastructure , but an incidental green space be not use by landowner at all . if we compulsorily purchase such land — obviously we would offer compensation — we could have high - quality cycling infrastructure that would link up village to the major town , so that people can attend GP appointment , school and so on . the path be also off - road — away from our gridlocke road . development must come with green and wild space , not just tarmac and brick . that be why I strongly support new clause 114 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) , which would ensure that development corporation include green space provision in all new development . green space be not a luxury ; they be essential for mental health , biodiversity , wildlife , flood prevention and community cohesion . like green space , play field and recreational facility be fundamental for the development of grassroots sport and for youth opportunity , and therefore I support amendment 88 and 89 of my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) . we also need serious , measurable action on climate . development corporation be be hand significant power , yet the Bill fail to guarantee that they be deliver in line with the UK ' s climate target . that be why amendment 151 be so important . it would ensure that the Secretary of State publish a report on whether development corporation be meet their legal duty on sustainable development and climate change . with so much at stake , we need transparency and accountability build into the system . finally , we need new home that be genuinely affordable , warm and build to high standard . in Stratford , many family and young people be price out of their own community . it be not enough to build house ; we must build the right home in the right place with the right infrastructure , green space and recreational and sport facility that create community . I urge the Government to back these amendment and take this opportunity to deliver a planning system that be fair , sustainable and community lead . it be a pleasure to respond to what have be a thoughtful and , largely , well - inform debate about a piece of legislation that be , to quote the shadow Minister , " groundbreake " . I thank all hon . member for their contribution this afternoon . can I take the opportunity to thank the shadow Minister and the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) , for their robust but civil and fair approach to scrutiny in Committee ? I want to respond to the key amendment and the argument that have be make this afternoon . among other reform and intervention , the Government be clear that significantly boost our housing supply require a renew focus on build large - scale new community across England . development corporation be vital vehicle for deliver large - scale and complex regeneration and development project . the Bill create a clear , more flexible and more robust framework to ensure that they can operate effectively . while there be clearly widespread support across the House for the effective use of development corporation where appropriate , a number of amendment have be table that seek to impose specific requirement on they . new clause 114 in the name of the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington would ensure that development corporation include provision for green space in new development . the Government absolutely agree that delivery of large - scale development and regeneration project must include the provision and stewardship of green space , which have a wide range of benefit , include support health and wellbeing , climate mitigation and adaptation , and biodiversity and wildlife . we do not believe that the new clause be necessary to deliver on these objection . first , development corporation have a strong track record of provide suitable green space . ebbsfleet development corporation , for example , have a target for the delivery of park , open space and recreation area , provide almost 15 hectare of park in recent year , and this year aim to provide around 10 hectare of new park and open space . secondly , development corporation that take on local plan - make power be already subject to national planning policy , include those concern green infrastructure . this mean that where development corporation take on local planning authority power , any planning decision make should be inform by the national planning policy framework , which , as hon . member will be aware , be a material consideration when determine planning application . as the House will know , the NPPF set out policy to encourage the provision of green infrastructure and outline that plan should set out an overall strategy for the pattern , scale and design quality of place , make sufficient provision for the conservation and enhancement of the natural environment , include green infrastructure . the NPPF also set out that planning policy should be base on robust and up - to - date assessment of the need for open space , sport and recreation facility and opportunity for new provision that plan should seek to accommodate . it be the Government ' s view that the duty propose in this new clause may unhelpfully constrain some development corporation — for example , where development corporation be designate specifically for the redevelopment of small commercial space . on the stewardship of green space , each development corporation have a designate oversight authority , which be either the Secretary of State , a mayor , or local authority , and it be for they to set specific framework for stewardship arrangement . although I commend the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington for once again highlight this important issue , I hope that with the explanation I have provide he will agree to withdraw his amendment . I turn to the reform to compulsory purchase in the Bill , which be design to improve the CPO process and land compensation rule to enable more effective land assembly through public sector - lead scheme . new clause 127 and amendment 153 table by the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) would repeal section 14a of the Land Compensation Act 1961 . let we be clear : the amendment propose to repeal a power introduce by the last Conservative Government , in which the hon . Member serve and in which he vote for the specific piece of legislation contain the power . the power allow acquire authority to take forward certain type of scheme by compulsory purchase and to pay a reduce value for land where it will deliver clear and significant benefit and be justify in the public interest . the hon . member ' s amendment do not seek , as propose in the Bill , to limit the extension of the power to parish and county council or to the use of compulsory purchase power as they apply to Natural England . the amendment seek to repeal a power contain in a piece of legislation that he vote for , and it be frankly embarrassing to listen to he try to explain that sharp u - turn . to support the delivery of the housing and infrastructure that this country desperately need , we must make well use of underutilise land across the country . we know that many local authority share this objective , but their plan be often frustrate by unrealistic compensation expectation on the part of landowner . this can result in significant amount of developable land remain unused and overpriced , with the result that the building of home , transport link and school become prohibitively high . in the debate today , Conservative Members have robustly defend the principle of pay landowner the uplift from the current - use value to the value that land would have with planning permission . give how Winston Churchill say such unearned increment in land be " positively detrimental " to the general public , be they not attack their own good tradition ? I agree with my hon . friend . it be a shame that the conservative party have seemingly change its view . [ interruption . ] the shadow Secretary of State say , " yes , that ' s right . we ' ve change our view . it be a bad piece of legislation . " many provision in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 be some of the well introduce by the previous Government . there be lot in the previous Government ' s record that Conservative Members should rightly feel embarrassed about ; these power be not among that . far from remove that power , we want acquire authority to use the power . for that reason , we can not possibly accept the hon . member ' s amendment . the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) suggest that market value would not be pay for such land in compulsory purchase . will the Minister confirm that the amount pay in compulsory purchase be the market value for the exist use of that land ? the Liberal Democrat spokesman tempt I to stray beyond the specific measure in the Bill and how that power can be use . we be clear and have recently issue guidance about how that power can be use . that lead I helpfully to amendment 68 , 88 and 89 , which would expand the LURA power in question . sympathetic as I be to the more frequent removal of hope value from the assessment of compensation , the use of the relevant power must be proportionate and justify in the public interest so that it do not fall foul of article 1 of the first protocol to the european convention on human right . seek to expand the use of the power beyond that test and apply it much more widely be problematic for that reason . I can not accept the amendment on that basis . however , I want to make it clear to the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) that use of the direction power can be seek on mixed use scheme that include sport or recreational use , but within those scheme there must be education provision , health provision or affordable housing provision to justify the use of the power in the public interest . on that specific point , and to respond to the Liberal Democrat spokesman , I confirm that clause 104 do not extend the LURA power to other use or social objective ; it merely enable parish and town council to make use of the exist power . will the Minister give way ? I will not give away any more . I want to bring our remark to a close because , as hon . member be aware , there be a statement to follow our proceeding on the Bill . I turn to new clause 85 , which would change the lost payment regime under the Land Compensation Act 1973 . to be clear , lost payment be an amount of compensation pay to eligible claimant to reflect and recognise the inconvenience and disruption cause by cpo . they be an additional payment to compensation claimable under the Land Compensation Act 1961 for the market value of land or property take by compulsory purchase . the new clause would allow claimant to claim compensation for the market value of their interest twice , and result in over - compensation be pay . that would be disproportionate . it would also run counter to the establish , overriding principle of equivalence in compensation law where a person subject to compulsory purchase should be leave no well or bad off in financial term after an acquisition than they be before . on that basis , we can not accept the new clause . I will touch briefly on new clause 42 in the name of the other shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , regard loss payment . it would introduce a change to the loss payment compensation regime under the Land Compensation Act 1973 , increase the amount that occupier of building or land subject to a CPO would be entitle to and place they on an equal footing with owner . as we discuss at some length in Committee , the Bill already achieve in part what the hon . Gentleman be seek in the new clause as it increase the loss payment compensation due to occupier of building and land . the purpose of loss payment be to reflect the inconvenience cause by compulsory purchase . it be occupier , rather than investor - owner , who bear the great burden in that respect : they be the one who will need to close or relocate their business . loss payment be a separate head of claim from compensation pay for land take under compulsory purchase . the Bill rebalance loss payment compensation to allow occupier to claim a high amount and landowner to claim a low amount . we believe that the rebalancing of loss payment compensation in favour of occupier be the right approach and will benefit , for example , group such as tenant farmer , for which Opposition Members have make a case in this afternoon ' s debate . on that basis , I be afraid that we can not accept the amendment and I request that the hon . member do not press it . lastly , the hon . member for Henley and Thame ( Freddie van Mierlo ) make a case for great support for active travel scheme that be to be consider in the public interest for the purpose of CPO . we be extremely keen to support local authority to use their CPO power in the public interest and have already publish guidance on the compulsory purchase process , include advice on how local authority can demonstrate the compelling case , in the public interest , for use of their CPO power . we will also publish update guidance to reflect the reform be implement through the Bill . in addition , CPO power can already be use , as the hon . Gentleman make clear , for active travel route and can be execute by local authority as part of their wide statutory function . to assist authority in deploy those power more effectively , Active Travel England , which as he know be an executive agency sponsor by the Department for Transport , be develop guidance to support local authority in the design and delivery of active travel route . that will be publish in consultation with local authority in due course . even though the hon . member for Henley and Thame seem to suggest that he know the content of that publication , let we examine the detail in due course when it be bring forward and publish . give that the guidance on the CPO process already exist and , as I have say , further guidance be set to be publish by Active Travel England , I believe the amendment be unnecessary and I can not accept it . to conclude , the amendment propose today be , in the Government ' s view , either unnecessary or detrimental to the objective of the Bill . more widely , on other part of the Bill and area on which we have receive fair challenge , we will of course continue to reflect on whether the legislation can be far strengthen and improve . when it come to development corporation and compulsory purchase order reform , we think that the Bill , as amend in Committee , be robust and effective . on that basis , I hope the whole House can get behind the Bill this afternoon . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann Davies Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Tim Farron Richard Foord z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Paul Kohler Ben Lake Carla Lockhart James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Gavin Robinson Anna Sabine Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Luke Taylor Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young will Forster Tessa Munt Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Alex Easton Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sammy Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 73 , Noes 312 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 85 - compensation payment " ( 1 ) the Land Compensation Act 1973 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 30 ( amount of home loss payment in England and Wales ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) — ( i ) omit ' 10 per cent of ' ; ( ii ) omit ' subject to a maximum of £ 15 , 000 and a minimum of £ 1 , 500 . ' ( b ) omit subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) . ( 3 ) in section 33a ( 2 ) ( basic loss payment ) , omit from ' payment of ' to the end of subsection ( 2 ) and insert ' the market value of his interest in the dwelling . ( 4 ) in section 33b ( occupier ' s loss payment : agricultural land ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) , omit from ' payment of ' to the end of subsection ( 3 ) and insert ' the market value of his interest in the dwelling ' ; ( b ) omit subsection ( 3 ) . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Caroline Dinenage iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright James Wild Richard Holden Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Lloyd Hatton Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 107 , Noes 314 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 114 - development corporation to provide green space " a development corporation must provide or facilitate the provision of — ( a ) green space , include private garden , balcony , and community garden ; ( b ) the care and maintenance of the green space provide for under this section . " — ( Gideon Amos . ) this new clause would ensure development corporation include provision for green space in new development . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . the House proceed to a Division . could the Serjeant at arm investigate the cause for delay in the No Lobby ? Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann Davies Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Alex Easton Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Liz Jarvis Paul Kohler Ben Lake Carla Lockhart James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Adrian Ramsay Gavin Robinson Anna Sabine Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Robin Swann Luke Taylor Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young will Forster Tessa Munt Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy Daniel Francis Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Gerald Jones the House have divide : Ayes 78 , Noes 309 . question accordingly negative . clause 109 Commencement and transitional provision Amendments make : 120 , page 148 , line 31 , leave out " 7 " and insert " ( examination of application for development consent ) " . this amendment provide that the new clause insert by Amendment NC69 come into force by regulation . amendment 121 , page 150 , line 24 , leave out " section 49 come " and insert " section 48 and 49 come " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amendment provide that section 48 ( which enable regulation to be make impose a surcharge on planning fee ) come into force two month after Royal Assent . third read King ' s and Prince of Wales ' s consent signify . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it have be a real privilege to take this crucial piece of legislation through the House — " groundbreake legislation " , as the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) , describe it early . I thank everyone who have play a role in get the Bill to this stage . I thank my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister for her unwavering support throughout the Bill ' s passage ; I thank the Department ' s Bill team , lead by Alex Bush , for their prodigious effort over many month ; I thank my consistently excellent private office , include its head , Grace Doody , and my brilliant private secretary Gabe Allason ; I thank the Clerks , Chairs and parliamentary counsel for facilitate the Bill ' s progress ; I thank the witness who give evidence to the Committee ; and I thank the hon . member on both side of the House who provide valuable input and challenge , today and at early stage . this landmark Bill will get Britain build again , unleash economic growth , and deliver on the promise of national renewal . it be critical in help the Government to achieve their ambitious plan for change milestone of build 1 . 5 million safe and decent home in England during the current Parliament , to make planning decision on at least 150 major economic infrastructure project , and to support the clean power 2030 target and transform Britain into a clean energy superpower . as the House will know , the Bill will deliver five key objective . first , it will deliver a fast and more certain consenting process for nationally significant infrastructure project . this be a crucial part of the Bill . upgrade our country ' s economic infrastructure — electricity network , clean energy source and public transport link — be essential to basic service and a grow economy . the Bill make a number of change . it will ensure that national policy statement be keep up to date by provide for a reflective amendment process so that the Government can quickly make minor policy change or factor in legal impact . secondly , the Bill adopt a more strategic approach to nature recovery that will unlock a win - win for development and the environment . as we discuss at length yesterday , the status quo be not work . it be not work for development , and — let I be clear — that be because constraint such as nutrient neutrality be stifle development and disincentivise planning application across the country , which be have an impact on house builder , particularly small and medium - sized house builder . we need to remove those constraint . the status quo be also not work for the environment : all too often , the site - by - site process of assessment and meeting obligation be not drive nature recovery . instead of retain that suboptimal status quo , we want to take forward a new strategic approach across wide geography , ensure that Natural England present plan that go beyond offset harm to drive nature recovery as well as unlock development . thirdly , the Bill will improve certainty and decision making in the planning system . there have be widespread support for the measure on mandatory training for local councillor and on fee localisation . local planning authority , which we know have be hard - pressed in recent year , will be able to set their own fee and ensure that more of the burden that they face in processing application can be cover by those fee . the House have welcome that . we have take the decision to introduce a national scheme of delegation . I appreciate that that be controversial , but we think it be an absolutely necessary mean of introduce more certainty and clarity into the decision - make process . we have launch a technical consultation on the measure , and I urge hon . member from across the House to engage with the detail of that consultation . I think that when they do so , they will understand that a category of planning application should be delegate to expert local planning officer . however , with the agreement of the relevant chair of the committee and the lead plan officer in the authority , it will always be possible for the most serious and controversial application to come before elect member , just as it should be the case that they take decision on the most significant application . fourthly , we be unlock land and secure public value for large - scale investment . today we have debate change to development corporation , which will play an essential role in drive the delivery of more large - scale community across this country , and we have discuss CPO power . we want to see those CPO power , include the very important CPO reform pass by the previous Government , which I be sad to hear the Conservatives regret they pass — the shadow Secretary of State say very clearly from the Dispatch Box that it be a mistake . we think those power be useful , and we want to see their application take forward . the Bill make target change to those power to ensure that they can be use by parish and county council and , when it come to nature recovery and the production of environmental delivery plan , by Natural England in certain circumstance . fifthly , the Bill introduce effective new mechanism for cross - boundary strategic planning . we must do plan on a large than local scale if we be to get the good outcome , and the Bill introduce new spatial development strategy . these be not big local plan ; they be high - level strategy for different sub - region of the country to come together and decide , in co - operation , the most appropriate place for housing growth and the good way for infrastructure to be deliver across those area . in response to feedback , we make a series of target change in Committee : we be remove the statutory pre - consultation requirement from the NSIP regime , which we know be drive perverse outcome , and we have introduce target improvement to the nature restoration fund and a new funding mechanism for statutory consultee . when it come to deliver new home and critical infrastructure , the status quo be patently fail the country and the british people . we can and must do thing differently , and this Bill will enable we to do so . it be transformative . it will fundamentally change how we build thing in this country and , in do so , help we to tackle the housing crisis and raise living standard in every part of the country . this Labour Government be elect on the promise of change , and we be determined to deliver it . through the measure introduce by this Bill , we will do just that . I wish Baroness Taylor and Lord Khan all the good with progress the Bill in the other place , and I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I thank the Minister for all his hard work ? he be an incredibly decent and polite man . he may be misguide at time , but we can not agree on everything . I thank he and his team for all their work , and I thank my shadow ministerial team who do a fantastic job of subject the Bill to line - by - line scrutiny , the other Front - Bench team , the Committee and the Clerks . I also thank hon . and right hon . member from across the House for their contribution . we be tell that this Bill be about accelerate house building , unleash growth and meet a national target of 1 . 5 million home in England alone in this Parliament . on the face of it , those aim be worthy , but what price be we prepared to pay for the Deputy Prime Minister ' s ambition ? make no mistake : what be be propose could fundamentally and irrevocably alter the character of our town , our village , and the green and pleasant land that make Britain what it be . this be not an attack on new home — I be unashamedly pro - business and pro - development . unlike the Secretary of State , the Minister and half the Cabinet , I have never object to a housing development in my constituency . let I be clear : we need home . we need home for first - time buyer , for young family , for key worker and for the next generation , but we need the right home in the right place , shape by the right principle . instead , we be be offer a top - down model drive by arbitrary target and central diktat . the result be soulless settlement , identikit development and row of uninspire concrete box that bear no relation to the history , the heritage or the hope of the community they be build in . crucially , in the Government ' s " centralise zeal " — as the excellent shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) , call it — local voice be be sideline . local councillor , and those who live in , love and understand their community well , be be cut out of the process , with their role reduce and their judgment overlook . the individual have be subordinate to be a cog in the machine . the Bill in its current form be not just flawed , but dangerous . it risk erode trust in the planning system and widen the gulf between the Government and the governed . the Bill must be consider in conjunction with the change to the national planning policy framework . the Government ' s approach of shift housing target from urban area to rural area be cynical and economically illiterate . while I welcome the restoration of mandatory target in principle , raise target by up to 400 % in rural area while simultaneously reduce they by over 11 % in London , 30 % in Birmingham and Newcastle , and over 50 % in Coventry be unfair and wrong - headed . their grey belt policy — present as a few disuse garage forecourt and wasteland in green belt — be a con . what they have actually do be remove important protection that prevent village from merge into nearby village and town . of course , there be also the matter of the environment . anyone who care about our natural world know that once a habitat be destroy , a woodland tear up or a biodiverse landscape bulldoze , no cheque can bring it back . there be zero confidence on this side of the House that Natural England can successfully mitigate the significant environmental harm that will ensue through the environmental delivery plan . that be why we propose that they be deliver locally through local or strategic plan . the truth be that we can not concrete our way to community , we can not meet our housing need by override the very people we be build for , and we can not call it progress if the Bill leave our countryside degrade and our community disempowere . resident in Bexley village in my constituency — it be one of London ' s outer village — be particularly concerned about the erosion of their green area around the village . do my hon . friend share my concern and surprise that , when the outer London green belt issue be discuss in the London Assembly last week , Reform back Mayor Khan in build over the green belt ? reform back Khan against the interest of Bexley resident . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , and the failure of the London Mayor to build more house be well document . what be perhaps not a surprise be that Reform would take the further step of support the London Mayor in the pursuit of Labour vote . we have grave concern about the enhance compulsory purchase order power for council , mayor and even Natural England , without hope value or market value . this undermine one of the most important principle of our economy : property right . not only be this unfair , but it will face legal challenge after legal challenge in the court . during the passage of the Bill , we attempt to work with the Government to make sensible change to make it fit for purpose , but to no avail . let we not be seduce by false choice . we do not have to choose between development and democracy , between home and heritage , or between ambition and accountability . we can build and we must build , but we must do so in a way that listen , respect and safeguard . I urge the Government , yes , to be ambitious , but also to think again . they should rethink the Bill , and restore the local voice and reinstate environmental protection . let we chart a path to progress that honour our need for home , our obligation to community and to the environment , and our duty to future generation . in its current form , we can not support this Bill . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it have be an honour and a privilege to represent the Liberal Democrats at the pleasure of my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) on the Planning and Infrastructure Bill in Committee and at all stage of the Bill . I thank my staff team for their work and my colleague on the liberal Democrat Benches for their spirited amendment across all topic ; in fact , we put forward 78 amendment in Committee , which I can only imagine be an absolute joy for the Minister and his official to respond to . I pay tribute to member across the House for their work on this Bill . it have stimulate amendment from all corner of the House , as well as great debate , include my hon . friend the Member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) work with the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) on their amendment on rural housing exception site , to give just one example of the cross - party approach from different corner of the House towards improve the Bill . on Second Reading , where the Liberal Democrats be the only party — except Plaid Cymru — to vote against the Bill because of our principle concern about it , we set out to address our concern about people ' s right , community and fairness , and the effect the Bill will have on nature . we seek to address all those topic with our amendment . first , on right for people and individual , as the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , point out yesterday , what great right could there be than the right to a decent , affordable home to bring up one ' s family ? we champion our proposal for 150 , 000 social home a year to be build as a key target for this Government , and continue to encourage they through all mean , include vote in this place , to move towards a target for build social home , rather than simply a target for build million of home ; without that , the target will be lead by private market housing , which , on its own , be no solution to the problem we face . we seek to address community and fairness by seek to remove the power that the Government will grant themselves , and all future government , to interfere in the running of council and to give decision to employee and planning consultant over and above the head of the councillor who employ they , and who be mean to be accountable for those decision . for the first time , decision could be make by council officer and consultant , and , though every single elect councillor of that authority may disagree , those decision will stand in their name , and councillor will not have the power to do anything to change they . that can not be right . it will undermine community ' trust in politic and our planning system — a system in which people engage more at a local level than perhaps any other aspect of local government . the more people see the centralisation of plan power , the standard method and guidance write by Whitehall , the appeal process dominate by Whitehall , and now even their own councillor not allow to make decision , the more we will damage community ' trust in politic and their belief in the planning system and the system of local democracy , which be so important to our country . that be the principal reason that we object so strongly to the removal of power from councillor in the Bill . we support a number of the measure in the Bill ; there be many good measure . in pass , I pay tribute to the Minister for his work on bring back strategic planning , on which he have work for a number of year . however , we be gravely concerned about its effect on nature . the National Trust have call the Bill a " licence to kill nature " . it be right , of course , to bring in a system for phosphate , for instance , which could be mitigate at a strategic level through environmental delivery plan , but it be wrong to completely remove from that process the principle of " first do no harm " on the site on which we be develop . we should enshrine the mitigation hierarchy in this new system in the Bill , so that , first , we seek to avoid harm to the site , then to mitigate it and , finally , to offset it , but only where that be absolutely necessary . our new clause 1 would have put that protection of nature into this new system . I be sure my hon . friend know his legislation very well , but the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 state that Ministers have a duty to further the purpose of protect landscape such as national landscape . do he think that we have miss an opportunity in this Bill by not give national landscape a seat at the table as statutory consultee , like , for instance , Chichester harbour in my constituency ? I be grateful to my hon . friend who have do so much work to champion national landscape and the need for they to have a seat at the planning table . in my own national landscape , the mellow and beautiful Blackdown hill of Somerset also deserve a seat at the planning table . we do not believe that cut out consultee , consultation and voice such as Sport England from the planning process be the way to deliver more home or well community . we need to bring in voice such as those who support our national landscape , and we would dearly like to put forward amendment to achieve that . on the right of people to genuinely affordable home , the right of community to fairness in the process , and right to nature , we do not believe that the Government have go far enough and we can not support the Bill as it stand . fear not , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall keep my comment very , very brief . I can not let this Planning and Infrastructure Bill go without say that it be an opportunity to create the home that we need , to support our community , to support our farmer and farming , to support the environment , and to ensure that good development be support by good infrastructure . I have sit in this Chamber for two day listen to amendment and debate amendment , include my own on battery energy storage system . time and again , the Government have just reject they . what we have end up with be legislation that drive a coach and horse through accountability . it seek to steamroll over local people and to concrete over our precious green belt . it give local people no right , no voice and no say over how their community be shape for the future . on that basis , I will be vote against the Bill on Third Reading . I , too , will keep my remark brief , but I wish to put it on the record that Devon , which be rightly celebrate across Britain for its rugged coastline , its rolling farmland , its spectacular moorland and its ancient woodland , be subject to the digger of developer who be encourage by this Government . although we all need house and we all need the protection that they afford , this Bill , if enact , will only damage nature . nature in Devon be part of who we be and we face a nature crossroad . the Devon Local Nature Partnership tell we that the loss and decline of Devon ' s wildlife have accelerate rapidly over the past 50 year . the woode valley of the Blackdown hill and the wildflower meadow of East Devon be priceless , but once they be go , they can not be bring back . yesterday in the Tea Room , we be talk about the darken cloud of the international system and how this government be have to deal with such grave matter of state . somebody then point out that , never mind grapple with war and conflict , we can not even create a system where a £ 44 swift brick be put in a new house to encourage nature in our rural area . healthy natural system underpin our economy and our community , but unless we restore nature , we will have nothing leave . build home do not need to come at the cost of nature . we must build in the right place with nature embed at the heart of planning . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Gerald Jones Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young James Wild Rebecca Smith the House divide : Ayes 306 , Noes 174 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . the two - state solution be in peril . there be catastrophic conflict in Gaza and a shocking deterioration in the west bank . this be an affront to the right of Palestinians , but it be also against the interest of Israelis ; against their long - term security and their democracy . today I will update the House on new action we be take to uphold human right and defend the vision and viability of two state live side by side in peace . in 2024 we see the bad settler violence against Palestinians in the west bank in the last two decade , and 2025 be on track to be just as violent . between 1996 and 2023 , an average of seven illegal settler outpost be establish annually . in 2024 , settler erect 59 . these outpost be illegal under both israeli and international law . two week ago , the israeli Government themselves announce 22 new settlement in the west bank . every outpost and every building the settler erect be a flagrant breach of international law and disregard the view of Israel ' s international partner . there be now in excess of 500 , 000 settler live in the west bank and over 100 , 000 in East Jerusalem , the territory that must form the heart of a sovereign , viable and free Palestine . the sharp growth in settlement alone be dangerous enough , but it have be accompany by a steep rise in settler violence and extremist rhetoric . Itamar Ben - Gvir have lead seven provocative intrusion into Haram al - Sharif since 2022 . in 2023 , settler rampage through the village of Huwara , in what Israel ' s own west bank military commander describe as a " pogrom do by outlaw " . last month , the villager of Mughayyir al - Deir flee their home in fear after the construction of an illegal outpost 100 metre away . this month , settler attack the town of Deir Dibwan . they set fire to house and injure resident . this violence and rhetoric be deeply concern . they be an assault not just on palestinian community but on the very fundamental of a two - state solution . this be an attempt to entrench a one - state reality where there be no equal right . the two - state solution remain the only viable framework for a just and last peace — and I know that it be support on every side of this House — with Israelis live in secure border , recognise and at peace with their neighbour , and free from the threat of terrorism ; and with Palestinians live in their own state , with dignity and security , free of occupation . we be steadfastly commit to defend that vision , not just with word but with action . that be why we have pledge £ 101 million in additional support to the palestinian people this year , and why we be work to strengthen and reform the Palestinian Authority . it be why my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary sign a landmark agreement with Prime Minister Mustafa , and why my right hon . friend the Prime Minister welcome he to Downing Street . it be why we be clear that Hamas must release the hostage immediately and unconditionally , and that Hamas can have no role in palestinian governance . it be also why we be commit to work with civil society , israeli and palestinian , to support those who believe in peace and coexistence . however , the gravity of the situation demand further action . the reality be that these human right abuse , the incitement to violence and the extremist rhetoric come not just from an uncontrolled fringe but from individual who be Ministers in this israeli Government . we must hold they to account and protect the viability of the two - state solution . so today we be sanction Bezalel Smotrich and Itamar Ben - Gvir . we be act alongside Australia , Canada , New Zealand and Norway , which have also announce their own measure today . these two man be responsible for incite settler violence against palestinian community in the west bank — violence that have lead to the death of palestinian civilian and the displacement of whole town and village . that violence constitute an abuse of Palestinians ' human right . it be cruel , it be degrade , and it be completely unacceptable . we have tell the israeli Government repeatedly that we would take tough action if this do not stop . it still do not stop : the appalling rhetoric have continue unchecked ; and violent perpetrator continue to act with impunity and encouragement . let I tell the House that when we say something , we mean it . today we and our partner have show extremist that we will not sit by while they wreck the prospect of future peace . our action today do not diminish our support for the security of Israel and the israeli people . the agenda of those two man be not even support by the majority of Israelis , who recognise that those individual be not work in their interest . as the Foreign Secretary say to this House last month , we want a strong friendship with Israel base on share value and our many close tie . our condemnation of Hamas — a proscribe organisation — and of the appalling attack of 7 October be unequivocal . our commitment to the security of Israelis and the future of Israel be unwavering . we will continue to press for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , for the release of the hostage still hold so cruelly by Hamas , and for a ramping up of aid to those Gazans in desperate need . the repeat threat by Hamas to the life of the hostage be grotesque and prolong the agony of their family and love one . Hamas should release all the hostage immediately and unconditionally . the situation in the west bank can not be see in isolation from event in Gaza . extremist rhetoric advocate the forced displacement of Palestinians , the denial of essential aid , and the creation of new israeli settlement in the strip , be equally appalling and dangerous . this government will never accept the unlawful transfer of Gazans from or within Gaza , or any reduction in the territory of the Gaza strip . the humanitarian situation in Gaza remain catastrophic . as Israel ' s ground and air operation expand , Gazans have now be push into less than 20 % of the territory . hospital have be damage and destroy . the entire population of Gaza be now at risk of famine . meanwhile , Israel ' s newly introduce measure for aid endanger civilian and foster desperation . they be inhumane . the Red Cross field hospital in Rafah report last week that it have respond to an unprecedented five mass - casualty incident in the two week prior . in each case , Palestinians have be kill or injure try to access aid in Gaza . desperate civilian who have endure 20 month of war should never face the risk of death or injury simply to feed themselves and their family . we need further action from the israeli Government now to lift all restriction on aid , to enable the UN and aid partner to do their work , and to ensure that food and other critical supply can reach people safely wherever they be . we will continue to support the UN and other trust non - governmental organisation as the most effective and principled partner for aid delivery . our support have mean that over 465 , 000 people have receive essential healthcare , 640 , 000 have receive food , and 275 , 000 have improve access to water , sanitation and hygiene service . we of course support the effort lead by the United States , Qatar and Egypt to secure an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . we welcome the initiative of France and Saudi Arabia to chair an international conference next week to advance a two - state solution . a two - state solution be the only way to bring the long - last peace that Israelis and Palestinians deserve , but it can not remain an empty slogan repeat by generation of diplomat and politician while increasingly divorce from the reality on the ground . Mr Smotrich have say there be no such thing as a palestinian nation . Mr Ben - Gvir have speak of his right in the west bank — a territory that his Government be occupy — as be more important than the right of million of Palestinians . their own word condemn they . to defend those Palestinians ’ right , to protect the two - state solution and to see Israelis and Palestinians live side by side in safety and security , this Government be take action . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be grateful to the Minister for advance sight of his statement . as he say , the situation in the middle east and the suffering we see be serious and completely intolerable , and I reiterate what I say in response to the statement last week about this desperation and suffering be completely unacceptable . we continue to see violence , death and casualty , include near aid distribution centre , which be incomprehensible and should simply never happen . Britain have continue to leverage its influence with Israel and our international ally at every opportunity to change the course of the event that the world be witness — to ensure that the remain hostage be release , that aid reach those who need it and that a sustainable end to this conflict be achieve . we all want a well future for the israeli and palestinian people , and the UK must continue to play a lead role in achieve that . to do so , the UK need to have constructive channel of communication open with all our partner in the region , as we work towards peace and an end to this conflict , and that include dialogue with Israel . the sanctioning of individual be always under review , which be the right policy , and in the case of Israel , that be previously consider by Lord Cameron , who speak about it in the last government . will the Minister explain the timing of this decision , and can he give an assessment of the impact that the sanction will have ? I have read the Foreign Office statement on asset freeze , travel ban and director disqualification , and these measure will have the right effect only if we work with ally . the statement refer to action be take with Australia , Canada , New Zealand and Norway . can the Minister tell we what discussion he have have on this issue with other partner , include the United States of America , and their response ? give this decision and other that be be take , can the Minister give his honest assessment of the UK Government ' s relationship with Israel ? what direct communication have he and the Foreign Secretary have with Israel on secure the delivery of vital , lifesave humanitarian aid to people in desperate need of help ? as the Minister hear last week , the opposition have be clear that settler violence be not helpful at all ; it be take thing backwards when it come to deliver the two - state solution . we again urge Israel not to take step that could make the two - state solution even more difficult . we have consistently be commit to a two - state solution , deliver in the right way and at the right time , and we will work constructively to support every effort to achieve this . can the Minister provide an update on the progress be make with the Palestinian Authority on reform , follow the memorandum of understanding that be sign in April ? the House will understand that credible governance be need for long - term stability in the west bank and Gaza , and of course , that mean no future role for Hamas . more widely , the report on the late round of negotiation on hostage release and bring an end to the conflict be frustrating for we all ; there have not be the progress that we all desperately want to see . can the Minister provide an update on the direct discussion he be involve in , include with Saudi Arabia , Jordan , Egypt , Qatar and other ally in the region ? the remain hostage , hold in captivity by the Iranian - back terrorist , have face over 600 day of suffering in horrific condition , and secure their release continue to be critical to seek an end to this conflict . we all want to see aid get into Gaza , to the innocent Palestinians who be suffer . we have discuss the need for vital food , medicine and shelter in previous statement , and I completely recognise and understand the difficulty associate with get aid in . can the Minister provide an update on the amount and type of aid that the UK continue to support and fund directly through partner , where that aid be , and the effort to get it in ? the House will know , as I say in response to the Minister ' s statement last week , that my noble friend Lord Cameron previously work with the israeli Government and with ally to secure aid , and to open up crossing and port , and so increase the number of truck and the volume of aid enter Gaza . will the Minister confirm that , work with our partner , he have speak to or present a clear plan to Israel that support more aid go in , and an increase in the volume of aid ? will we make use of our long - stand experience ? obviously , Britain lead the world on get aid ; we have expertise and a strong track record . finally , will the Minister give an update on the action be take to restart dialogue and discussion on the viability of the Abraham accord , and on progress in deliver the Cairo plan ? as the House know , the Cairo plan be important because it be back by local and regional ally , and it give the egyptian Government a pivotal and vital role in secure peace in the region . those be essential condition that we need to meet to create peace , stability and a well future for Israel and Palestine . I thank the right hon . Lady for her question . she raise important point about work with ally . let I address what she say about Egypt , which be vital . the Egyptians have conduct important work , and I be pleased that I will be with they next week at the two - state solution conference to discuss the reconstruction of Gaza . she be absolutely right that we need to focus on work with partner in the region and beyond to ensure that vital building block be put in place for a reform Palestinian Authority and a rebuilt Gaza . we can all see how acute that need be . I be grateful to the Speaker and to colleague for their flexibility this evening , as we deliver this statement in a slightly unusual way . we have seek to work with partner , and to co - ordinate closely with those who be part of this statement . we be also co - ordinating with other . we have have direct discussion with a range of partner , include the United States , about some of these question . we have speak to the israeli Government directly today . the right hon . Lady invite I to comment on the state of the relationship between the UK and Israel . the state of disagreement be clear . I regret the tone of some of our exchange most recently . we do not wish to have such a profound disagreement with the israeli Government , but when we disagree as profoundly as we do , then I be afraid that as Minister for the middle east , I have to say so both publicly and privately , and that be what I have do . I have long call for comprehensive sanction on Israel in response to its crime against the palestinian people , so the sanction against two far - right Ministers be a step in the right direction , but Israel ' s war crime be about far more than a couple of bad apple , so much , much more need to be do . when Russia invade Ukraine , over 2 , 500 sanction be rightfully impose on Russia , so I say to the Minister , be it not time for Russia - style sanction on Israel to help stop the genocide ? I want to be really clear that the two man against whom we have announce sanction today do not represent the majority of Israelis . there be so many connection between the UK and Israel , and we hear about the extent to which the decision , rhetoric and language of those two Ministers cause concern in Israel as well . we be take action on extremist rhetoric and extremist action that threaten the human right of Palestinians , and that continue to be the threshold for these sanction , which we will keep under review . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I also thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . I welcome the step take by the Government to sanction the extremist Ministers Ben - Gvir and Smotrich . it be only right that they face consequence for their relentless call for the forced dispossession of Palestinians , which have so egregiously undermine prospect for secure a just and sustainable peace in the region . my party leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , be the first to call for these sanction last February , when the Ministers ' extremist view be already clear . my only disappointment be that the Conservatives refuse to act when they have the chance to do so , and that it have take this Government nearly a year to take this important step . it be essential that the Government keep take step towards a just resolution of the conflict . that must include get aid in , get the hostage out , and agree an endure ceasefire . in the last week , we have see the product of the extremism advance by Ben - Gvir and Smotrich : the death of more Palestinians , who be queue in desperation for food from the so - call Gaza Humanitarian Foundation . call for palestinian displacement can no long be tolerate , so will the Government build on today ' s progress by urgently consider sanction on other extremist Ministers who continue to call for the blockade of Gaza and for expand military action in the strip , start with Israel Katz ? the time have come to listen to member in all part of this House and officially recognise the independent state of Palestine . will the Government commit to take that vital step at next week ' s summit in New York ? Recognition will demonstrate the UK ' s commitment to self - determination , and will make it clear that , build on today ' s announcement , the UK will do all it can to wrest control away from the extreme and give both Israelis and Palestinians hope of a last peace . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . the two - state solution conference next week be an important moment . we be discuss with our friend and ally our approach to that conference , and no doubt I will return to this House next week — with your permission , Mr Speaker — to discuss that far . I will not speculate on further sanction from the Dispatch Box . we have take these step because of the extremist rhetoric and the damage that these two man have do to palestinian human right , and we will keep further sanction under review . I very much welcome the statement from the Minister . it be absolutely right to target the enemy of peace in the Netanyahu Government ; their will be entirely separate and different from the will of the israeli people . I very much welcome the Minister ' s reference to support civilised society in Israel and Palestine , and it be true that there can be no top - down two - state solution without build those community . will the Minister update the House on the UK ' s proposal for an international fund for israeli and palestinian peace ? I thank my hon . friend from the east midland . he have long be commit to these issue , and particularly to the difficult but vital work of ensure that civil society in Israel and Palestine work on peace - building project . I know that he be in the region recently , and I commend he for his approach . we hope to set out our approach to the international fund in due course , follow the announcement of the Prime Minister . we want to make as full a contribution as we can to bring peacemaker on both side of this conflict together . as you know , Mr Speaker , I have try for two day to raise this issue through an urgent question . when the Minister come to the Dispatch Box , I expect to hear something constructive ; what we have actually hear about be the sanctioning of two people . the United Kingdom Government could unilaterally recognise Palestine and show the world that they be take the lead . above all , they could , as an absolute priority , negotiate the delivery of food , water and medicine to woman and child in Palestine who be starve through the route from Larnaca directly into Gaza . I ask the Minister last week , and I will ask he again : when be the Government go to do something ? in this House , we have to be focus on what the real option be for get aid at volume into Gaza . the truth be that it must be do via land route , and even when aid get into Gaza by land , that be still incredibly dangerous for aid worker . ultimately , deconfliction mechanism for aid worker in Gaza will be vital , should a full aid operation be again allow in the strip . I meet this week with the bereaved family of the victim from the World Central Kitchen operation . there be three british veteran lose while try to deliver aid to the people of Gaza , and three british family be still mourn the loss of their love one at the hand of the Israel Defence Forces . if there be some other option to get aid into Gaza safely , we would take it . no such option exist . we have to negotiate access with the israeli Government , and that be what we seek to do . I welcome the sanction announce today , which be long overdue and signify an important step forward . I thank the Minister for his hard work and strong statement on the issue . my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) and I be deny entry by Israel into the occupy Palestinian Territories precisely because we speak out against war crime in Gaza and against annexation in the west bank . Annexation be real — it be happen . partner in the region be call for recognition before it be too late . today the US ambassador to Israel reiterate what many fear : that the US will not prioritise a palestinian state become a reality in our lifetime . do the Minister agree that we must not throw recognition into the long grass , that failure to recognise next week at the UN conference imply that Israel do have a veto , and that the israeli Government will continue to annex and terrorise Palestinians in the west bank ? if we do not recognise now , there will be no palestinian state to recognise . do the Minister agree that we must recognise a palestinian state at the UN conference next week ? I thank my hon . friend for her commitment to these issue . clearly , recognition be right at the centre of any discussion of a two - state solution . the action we have announce today be part of the UK ' s effort to ensure that the reality of a two - state solution remain in play . it be clear from the rhetoric of the two Ministers we have sanction , as well as other in the israeli Government , that there be limited commitment on the side of the israeli Government to advance that cause . the UK be commit to advance that cause , and we will talk to our friend and ally in the run - up to the conference next week . I have absolutely no sympathy with the comment and rhetoric of the two israeli Ministers that the Minister have announce sanction on . in his statement , the Minister say clearly , " we will not sit by while extremist wreck the prospect of future peace " . if the action he have just announce be not to be see as a double standard , where be the sanction against Ministers within the Palestinian Authority who have incite violence and make vile comment of hatred against Jews and Israelis ? as I be afraid I say with regularity , I will not speculate on further sanction on either side of the conflict from the Dispatch Box , but the hon . Gentleman be right that the threshold and test be the same . we condemn antisemitic rhetoric , we condemn incitement to violence , and we will keep all sanction under review . the sanction impose on the two israeli Ministers be long overdue , but a welcome first step . I continue to ask the Minister and the Foreign Secretary : why be we still arm Israel , when will we impose an arm embargo and when will we ban good from settlement ? finally — the Minister have already allude to this — the conference on the two - state solution in New York next week be a crucial moment in the recognition of a palestinian state . the Minister have the opportunity at this Dispatch Box to share with the House that the UK Government be commit to recognise palestinian statehood . will he do so ? I feel that I need to take issue with the idea that this be the first step that this Government have take in relation to these issue . I have be at this — in relation to sanction . it be not the first step in relation to sanction either ; this be the third set of sanction we have announce in relation to settlement in the west bank . on the two - state solution conference next week , we be talk with our friend and ally . I be sure that — with your permission , Mr Speaker — I will be back in this House next week to talk about that . the president of the International Committee of the Red Cross have say that in Gaza , " humanity be fail " . what be happen in Gaza surpass any acceptable legal , moral or humane standard . Palestinians be be strip of their dignity . when will the Minister pronounce that they have a state , and give that Israel continue to blockade Gaza , what more will he do ? he talk about first step — he need to run . it be not I who talk about first step . we have take a sequence of measure , and we will continue to take measure . the blockade of aid into Gaza be reprehensible , and I have talk about the famine that face the whole of the strip . the step we have take today will not unlock aid into Gaza . we will continue to advocate , to press , and to take further measure until aid into Gaza be unlocked . I stand with my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) . she and I be deny entry to Israel only two month ago , and one of the reason give be our advocacy for the sanction that the Government have introduce today . I stand by my comment and by the Government ' s decisive action today . as the Minister have mention , it be important that this action have be take to uphold the right of Palestinians . the UK , along with its international ally , can take further action by recognise the state of Palestine . what more can the Minister do — and what more can all of we in this House do — to press our international ally to come to that decision collectively ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s contribution . she go to the region to see with her own eye , as she do repeatedly as a much - respect journalist and author before she come to this House . I know her commitment to these issue , and I can assure she that we be talk with the full range of our friend and ally about the approach to the two - state solution conference next week . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , but can he tell the House whether he think these sanction will save a single palestinian life ? if he will forgive I , ahead of the palestinian recognition summit — rather than the two - state solution summit ; maybe that be a slip of the tongue by the Minister — next week in New York , some observer look at today ' s statement might be suspicious that there be a cynical coincidence in its timing . can he reassure the House , and all those who be very concerned about this issue , that the United Kingdom Government have not do some grubby deal behind the scene with the American Administration , trade today ' s set of sanction for say no to recognition in New York next week ? I call next week ' s conference what it be call by the french and saudi arabian authority . I can confirm to the right hon . Gentleman that I have do no deal , grubby or otherwise ; we take sovereign step on this issue . the right hon . Gentleman have ask about timing . as I know many member will appreciate , work in concert with our ally and make a joint announcement of this kind require some co - ordination . I be in the Chamber last Wednesday , when I be understandably ask by many member when I would be in a position to announce further step . I would have like to have be in a position to announce further step early than I have be , but we have always take the view that it be most powerful to act with our ally . as such , we take the time to enable we to work in concert with they . many of we have be consistent in our call for sanction against those who commit war crime in Gaza , so the sanction place on these two far - right Ministers today be a step in the right direction . but let we be clear : this be nowhere near enough . Palestinians starve and aid be block in flagrant violation of international law while the UK continue to allow arm export to Israel . we can not condemn the humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza while continue to arm those who contribute to it . the Government must act now and end all arm sale to Israel . anything less be not just a failure of diplomacy ; it be an absolute failure of moral leadership in the face of a genocide . let I be really clear for the House : we be not sell arm — not bomb , not bullet — for use by Israel in Gaza . we have a carve - out in the F - 35 programme in order to maintain the programme , which we and so many of our ally benefit from , but where F - 35 part be directly be sell to Israel , that trade be suspend . we be not provide the weaponry that be be use in Gaza . I reassure my hon . friend that I and the Government do not think that the action we have take today will be the golden answer to get aid into Gaza . they will not be the golden answer for secure a ceasefire . we will continue to work on all those front until we achieve progress . although we welcome the sanctioning of Ben - Gvir and Smotrich , that should have happen a long time ago , and we now need to go much , much far . far to the previous question , today ' s announcement highlight the absurdity of the Government ' s position . the Foreign Secretary recently describe those Ministers ' view as " repellent " and " monstrous " and today ' s statement accept that Israel be guilty of human right abuse and be in flagrant breach of international law . on what basis — legal or moral — can the Government continue to supply F - 35 component , know that the end user will be a regime that they themselves have condemn for espouse repellent and monstrous view , and which they now accept be guilty of human right violation and be in flagrant breach of international law ? for the purpose of time , I will not address the legal question , not least give that they be be consider by a judicial review . we be confident that the limited carve - out we have do to maintain the functioning of the F - 35 programme , which be vital to our national security and that of so many of our ally , be legal , proportionate and moral , and we will continue to fight that case in court . I welcome today ' s announcement . it be a huge and significant step that send a clear message to the israeli Government . however , million of people in Gaza go to bed every night , if they can even find a bed to sleep on , unsure whether they will wake up in the morning and whether their family member , who might have survive so far , will wake up with they . do the Minister agree that we must take the next vital step towards the two - state solution , which be for the UK to recognise the state of Palestine next week at the conference that France and Saudi Arabia be lead on ? I will not repeat my answer about the conference next week , but my hon . friend have be commit to these issue for a long time , and she be absolutely right when she say that million of people be in an abject position , face famine and terrible shortage of all essential supply , and they weigh very much on the mind of this Government each and every day . the two israeli Ministers that the Minister have announce be be sanction be no friend of the israeli people or the Palestinians . I have no truck with they and nor should any of we . the reality be , though , be that there be two aspect to the situation . there be Hamas ' s continued control of Gaza , and their refusal to release the hostage or agree to a hostage exchange , or indeed to allow aid in and let it reach the palestinian people . there be also the challenge of release those hostage , which we all want to see happen . Hamas have refuse the ceasefire deal . what action will the Minister take to ensure that Hamas come to the negotiating table and actually negotiate a ceasefire , so that international aid can get in ? and while I be on my foot , what be the Government ' s attitude towards those who attempt to break the blockade , such as the Madleen ship ? I call on Hamas to return to ceasefire talk when report reach we that they be not do so . I hope that those ceasefire talk be successful , and I of course repeat my call for hostage to be release . we have be clear about the blockade of aid , but I must once again reiterate that it be the land route on which we must be completely focus ; the land route from Egypt , from Jordan and from Israel itself must be open at the scale require to get the aid in . I thank the Minister for his statement , and I thank the Government for the sanction that they have impose . I appreciate that ally must work together and that it take time to hold negotiation and put out joint statement — which be , I agree , more powerful — but I would find it helpful to be able to tell my constituent and the country what the Government ' s position will be as they go into the negotiation in America next week . will their offer be , " yes , we should recognise Palestine immediately , " and if not , why not ? I recognise the strength of feeling among constituent throughout the country , include those in the city of Lincoln . we go into the two - state solution conference clear in our commitment to the Palestinians ' inalienable right to a state that be safe and secure , alongside Israel , and we be talk to our friend and ally about the good method of secure that . the Government ' s decision to sanction two israeli Ministers be certainly welcome , but do the Minister acknowledge that every limb of the israeli state be carry out a genocide against the palestinian people of Gaza ? sanction must be extend to the entire state of Israel — not tomorrow , not in a week ' s time , not in another 18 month ' time — alongside a full arm embargo and the expulsion of the israeli ambassador . the hon . Gentleman be aware of the long - stand position on determination in respect breach of international law and crime . I want to make it clear that our sanction do not target the entirety of the israeli people . they target two individual who have be promulgate extremist rhetoric and action and have breach the right of the Palestinians , and it be on that breach of right that we be focused . we have be here nearly every week talk about these issue . the sanction be welcome , but every speaker be send the Minister the clear message that we should recognise the state of Palestine . if we do not recognise the state of Palestine , there will be no Palestine to recognise . my question be this : what be prevent that recognition from happen , especially give that the UK be among 50 country that do not recognise Palestine ? do we need the permission of Netanyahu or any member of his Government to recognise it ? if not , and if we be independent in make this decision , it should have be make long ago . I can confirm that we do not need any permission to make policy decision . I think that if we do , the israeli Government would have a rather different attitude towards Britain ' s Minister for the Middle East . the position in relation to recognition be that we wish to provide a state in which Palestinians can live safe and secure , side by side with the Israelis . that look distant at the moment , for the reason that my hon . friend have give . those reason need to be address . we want to see progress , and we will consider our own position as part of the well possible way in which we can make a contribution . sanction be no remedy when it come to the imperilled two - state solution . be the Minister go to the conference with a plan ? the right hon . Gentleman always ask succinct and clear question . as he will recall , I be a diplomat for a long time . sanction be no remedy ; they be an expression of a failure in the international system . as my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hall Green and Moseley ( Tahir Ali ) say , we have hear week after week about the agony . we do go to the conference with a plan , but it be a conference call by our friend and ally , and we be discuss our approach closely with they . I congratulate the Minister , and his team and official , on all that they have do . I do not underestimate the amount of work that have be put in , especially the work with our international ally that have bring we to where we be . as the Minister can see , however , there be always a demand for more , as there should be give what we know be go on . may I add my voice to those of all who have say that hopefully this be the lead - up a successful announcement next week , with our ally , about recognition of the palestinian state ? I thank my hon . friend for her kind word about both I and official in the diplomatic service , who have work tirelessly . as I say in response to another hon . member , I have hope that we could make this announcement even soon , but it be through no fault of those in the hard - work british diplomatic service , who have do everything they can to ensure that we make the most impactful sanction announcement possible . the two sanction Ministers have be enable by Prime Minister Netanyahu , who be himself subject to an International Criminal Court arrest warrant , and I wonder what the Government will do to make sure that that be properly pursue . when I be in the west bank only a week after the two Labour Members be shamefully deport , it be very clear that the settlement be take over . what sanction will the Government take to ensure that there be no trade with those settlement ? the settlement be not bind by the trade preference between the UK and Israel , and product must be properly label . they attract different tariff and should be trade as such . where there be breach of those regulation , they should be investigate . I welcome the sanction announce today by the Minister , which have be take in conjunction with our ally , and his commitment to a palestinian state . however , people in Gaza be starve . I want to update the Minister on one such person : Dr Radi , the elderly and frail father of my constituent Mo Radi . a few week ago , Dr Radi seek shelter in Al - Awda hospital with over 100 medical staff and patient , as he be a former practise doctor there . no food be allow in , and the IDF destroy the main water tank . the hospital be bomb , and when Dr Radi leave the hospital , he be strip and humiliate by the IDF . he be now hungry , ill and alone , as the rest of his family in Gaza have be kill . what be we do to protect the most vulnerable from die ? we need to increase aid and evacuation , and to end the killing in Gaza . my hon . friend describe the heartbreaking case of her constituent ' s family member , which she have raise with I on a number of occasion . member from across the House have do the same , and I be usually not in a position to discuss such case on the Floor of the House . where constituent and their family be affect , we will do everything that we can to try to support they . we have hear a great deal about the restriction on aid , and it be candidly not easy to support people to leave Gaza , but where there be a UK connection , I be always keen to do what I can to try to secure people ' s safety . I wholeheartedly welcome the Minister ' s statement and the sanction , but I fear that those who have just be sanction will either shrug their shoulder and say , " so what ? " , or , bad , wear they as a badge of honour among their cohort . cast forward to next week ' s conference , be the Minister alert to and seize of what be a very significant development in this place , which be the near - unanimous support for a positive declaration from his Majesty ' s Government on move towards a two - state solution and the recognition of Palestine ? that would be a very big step forward , and I hope the nuance of the comment make by my right hon . friend the shadow Foreign Secretary be not lose on the Minister . he will know that my right hon . and hon . friend from across the spectrum of the conservative party have write twice to the Prime Minister to urge that course of action , and to pledge that we will give wholehearte and full - throate support to such an initiative . I just hope the Minister know that when he and official go to the conference , he be arm with the good will of this place to give some dynamism and impetus to the process , to recognise Palestine , to show leadership , and to use our good office among our ally in the region to bring this utter torture to an end as quickly as possible . I be a proud son of the Labour party and I have mostly attend to development in my own party , but the many forceful intervention from the Opposition Benches on these question have not escape I . the many powerful speech , particularly from those who previously hold other view , be important contribution . I know they be watch widely by our friend and ally across the world , and indeed by many in Israel , and I take full and sober note of they . I be grateful to the Minister for his statement , and for the work he have do and continue to do on this issue . the people of Pembrokeshire watch in despair the event unfold on their tv screen — the death , the horror , the humanitarian catastrophe . I add my voice and my constituent ' voice to those urge the Minister that we need two state for a two - state solution , so when will the Government recognise the state of Palestine ? I thank my hon . friend for the question , and I recognise the strength of feeling in Pembrokeshire , Lincoln and so many other place . I will not repeat for he the manifesto commitment on which we be both elect . I be sure his interest , like that of so many in this House , will be on the conference next week , and we be of course talk with our friend and ally about our approach to it . an 11 - year - old constituent write to I , and simply say , " why be we not do more ? " that sum up the outrage in Yeovil at the crisis in Gaza . can the Minister tell my constituent what step he have take with ally to ensure that all aid route to Gaza be reopen , and what consequence there will be if they be not ? the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent ask a perfectly reasonable question . I often feel frustrated in this House by my inability to say what we be do diplomatically with our ally and partner , which I can not always advertise on the Floor of the House as we be do it . I be sure it be obvious to many member during the statement last week that work be ongoing on this package of sanction , and I understand the frustration of so many member , which I be sure be share by his 11 - year - old constituent , that I could not say more then . I would like to reassure they and the House that , whenever we be not in this place , we be work with our friend and ally behind the scene to try to reopen aid route , secure the release of hostage and ensure a two - state solution . the sanctioning of Smotrich and Ben - Gvir be welcome news , not least because theirs be the loud voice call for annexation of the west bank . the settlement building and force displacement of Palestinians be accelerate , and surely it be time to recognise palestinian sovereignty over the 22 % of mandate Palestine that remain to they , before that too be entirely eat away . as ever , my hon . friend make an important and powerful contribution . I will not repeat the position on recognition , but we recognise the force of what he say , which be that the situation have deteriorate , settlement have increase very significantly over the last year , as have settlement violence , and it be unacceptable . it be a sad day when the UK Government and the government of New Zealand , Australia , Canada and Norway feel it necessary to sanction Government Ministers in the state of Israel , one of our close ally , but it be the right thing to do . can I , however , counsel the Minister , if I may be so presumptuous , against performative politic , and ask he how many mouth will be feed , how much violence against Palestinians in the west bank will be avoid or avert , and how much close be we to achieve the two - state solution that we all want to see as a result of the action he have announce today ? as my predecessor , the right hon . Gentleman can , of course , counsel I , and I be grateful for his support on the measure we have take . as I say to another of my predecessor , the right hon . member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) , I recognise that sanction be not a remedy : this will feed no Palestinians . I hope it will deter , but we have no guarantee that it will save any palestinian life . however , we think these be important statement of principle and action that demonstrate not just to the two individual , but to israeli society , where we stand on these question . many of we have urge this course of action on the Government for some time now , and the imposition of sanction on these two individual and other in the israeli Government be something that be , perhaps , over time . however , I very much welcome the Minister ' s statement this evening and the hard work that have go into get we to this point . I understand the importance of work in concert with our ally , but if the co - operation of our ally be not forthcoming , will the UK Government , give the strength of feeling across the Chamber , unilaterally recognise the state of Palestine ? I will not speculate too far on hypothetical , but I be , of course , a british Minister ; I take decision on behalf of the British Government . we will act alone where we have to , but we act whenever we can with our friend and ally , as that be the way we have the great impact . the Minister have lay out with some passion the dystopian hell that Gaza have become and the unfolding and ongoing disaster in the west bank . why , then , as many member have ask , have he do the absolute bare minimum ? we all know in this House , after the previous round of sanction , that there will be absolutely no difference on the ground for the Palestinians . I say last week — I be sorry to be cynical about it — that I think the House be be play . my confident prediction now , give this announcement , be that recognition , which be be advertise for the conference next week , be off the table . can the Minister tell I that I be wrong ? I recognise that the right hon . Gentleman have make these point with some force for the past year , but I would caution he against be quite as cynical as he be . we be do everything we can . we recognise that what we have announce today will not be a remedy to the situation we find ourselves in , as I have just say to one of my predecessor , the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) . however , I encourage the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) not to cast such cynicism around the Government ' s motive . this Government care deeply about what be happen in Gaza . we be so incredibly frustrated by the scene that meet we and everyone on the Benches behind I . I say gently to the right hon . Gentleman that he have no monopoly on the morality of the situation . I be grateful to the Minister for come to the House tonight and for the step that have be take , give the despicable action of the two israeli Ministers cite throughout the statement . of course , more must be do . do the Minister recognise the UN special rapporteur ' s characterisation of Israel ' s approach to aid delivery as " brutal humanitarian camouflage " ? what further measure will the Government take to challenge grotesque attempt to use aid as a cover for ongoing violence towards Palestinians , include further sanction and , critically , the recognition of a palestinian state ? we have be very clear about the nature of the new aid arrangement involve the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation . it have prove deadly and incapable of supply aid at the level so desperately need . I have say so repeatedly , and we will continue to make these point with force . regardless of what one may think of the view express by the two Ministers who be subject to sanction today , the fact be that this be nothing new — they have be say it for a long time without sanction . the question that must be ask today be : why now ? the Minister must know that this will not bring peace to Gaza , and it will not stop Israel pursue the terrorist it be bind to pursue in order to free the hostage and release its grip on Gaza , with the danger that present to Israel . be this a case of the Minister pander to the increasingly loud anti - Israel voice on his Back Benches , and do he not know that this will only encourage Hamas not to release the hostage and not to agree to a ceasefire ? I have speak about the perilous decline of the situation in the west bank and , indeed , the event of the past two week . I have also speak about the importance of co - ordinating with ally , so I do not think that I have anything further to say about the timing of the announcement . the Government be right to sanction these israeli Ministers whose encouragement of mass atrocity crime be an outrage . far , such action must follow quickly . also an outrage be the news of starve Palestinians be shoot and kill by israeli soldier and foreign mercenary as they try to access aid in Gaza . let I ask the Minister this : as the fabric of palestinian life be be destroy by the israeli military , and if the two - state solution be not to be an empty slogan , as he say , then be this not the time for our country to unconditionally and immediately recognise the state of Palestine ? if this be not the time , when be ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for her work as the chief executive of Medical aid for Palestinians . I recognise that there be almost nobody in this House who have more live experience of what this crisis look like . I will not add to my answer on recognition or on the conference next week , but I pay tribute to her work , which be brave , courageous and important . restriction on aid , fuel , food and even water in Gaza be inhumane and unacceptable . if the Minister can not get a decision next week to recognise the state of Palestine , will he at least ask for a collective message to be send to our ally , the Israelis , that these restriction be unacceptable and that , unless they be reverse , serious consequence will follow ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . we have deliver that message with our 26 partner on aid and we have be clear that , unless the situation change , further action with the leader of France and Canada will flow . I will not repeat my answer about the conference next week , but I thank he for the important focus that he put on the humanitarian situation . I warmly welcome today ' s decision by the UK Government to work with other international ally to sanction these extremist israeli Ministers . just to remind ourselves how extremist they be , Finance Minister Smotrich promise that " not even a grain of wheat " will enter the Gaza strip . this be a man whose extremism and disregard for the israeli hostage be match only by his absolute contempt for palestinian life . he say that it be " good " that the war have begin but " unfortunate " that it start the way that it do . " Unfortunate " — that be how he describe 7 October . in the spirit of today ' s international alliance with other country , will the Government now seize the moment to recognise the state of Palestine next week in New York ? my hon . friend be very committed to these issue . he rightly point to some of the rhetoric and extremist language that have be use by these two man . I will not repeat my answer in relation to the conference next week . we will work with our friend and ally on our approach . the Foreign Secretary summon the israeli ambassador to meet the Minister two week ago and we be ask to " wait and see " what positive step would come from the meeting . since then , we have see violence and attack on vulnerable people increase by the state of Israel . the ambassador have repeatedly reject a two - state solution . give that 200 , 000 people have now sign a petition to expel she from this country , have the Minister give any consideration to further action on the ambassador ? I summon the israeli ambassador and set out the strength of view to the israeli Government that the british Government feel on these question . it be of vital importance that we have an israeli ambassador . whatever the view of this House , it be important that we maintain relation . we also have an ambassador from Iran in London , and that be important , too . we need to be able to deliver message to friend , to ally and to those with whom we do not enjoy good relation . we will continue to host ambassador because of the importance of maintain those diplomatic relation . the Minister be absolutely right : our dispute and anger be not with the israeli people but with their leader , who use their murderous force to inflict this annihilation on the palestinian people . the Minister have say that sanction be not remedy , and that they be an expression of our opinion , but the acid test will be whether the measure actually have an impact and bring about the end to the killing . I also have to respectfully disagree with the Minister , because as a state party to the genocide , Geneva and Vienna convention , the UK have a binding obligation to : prevent genocide ; refrain from recognise , aid or assistance an illegal situation arise from serious breach of peremptory norm of international law ; and avoid trade , funding or co - operation that enable or legitimise these violation . will my hon . friend the Minister give an undertaking to this House to come back in short order to announce further sanction that will concentrate their mind , because the fear be that these sanction will not ? will he also indicate whether , in the absence of a firm commitment to recognise the state of Palestine , his Majesty ' s Government will support a vote in this House , by other mean , to express the will for that recognition of Palestine ? I have come to this House on a number of occasion to talk about a number of thing the British Government have do in relation to this situation . I say that sanction be no remedy ; they be no remedy in this situation . they be so often not a remedy in the many circumstance in which we apply they . I feel much great satisfaction when we announce positive step that we have take — aid that have go in , partnership with the region . it be with regret , always , that we announce sanction . I will not speculate on what far we may introduce in this case or any other , as my hon . friend will understand . I recognise the limitation of sanction , but under these circumstance , the Government judge that we have no choice but to express the strength of our feeling through sanction . on the question of international humanitarian law , I repeat once again this government ' s commitment to abide by all our IHL obligation . I have speak on a number of occasion in recent week about recognition of Palestine , and I put on record again that I think we should proceed with it . certainly , a vote in this House , as be suggest a moment ago , would strengthen the Government ' s position and , I would have think , be helpful in international negotiation . the Minister mention four other country that have sanction the two Ministers today . be he anticipate that further country will follow suit , and what negotiation be take place to achieve that goal ? we have have discussion with other country , but I would not wish at the Dispatch Box to speculate on what step they may take follow this . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I recently visit Israel and Palestine on a delegation and meet opposition leader , and their top ask of the UK — what they say would be helpful for they — be strong sanction , so I welcome the Minister ' s statement today , but do he not agree that we should be place strong sanction on all Ministers in the israeli Government ? this be not just about rhetoric ; it be about action . with thousand of death in Gaza , we need to see strong sanction on all Ministers in the israeli Government . I thank my hon . friend for her question and for the effort she put in to travel to the area and to meet those in Israel and beyond . to be clear , the sanction announce be not sanction on the two Ministries that the man represent . they be sanction on the man themselves and the extremist rhetoric that they be responsible for . we would keep further sanction under review on individual who conduct rhetoric of that kind . I welcome the sanction that have be announce on these two individual , but I believe that they should go far . the Minister say in his statement that no arm be now go to Israel , but he be unclear about the component part for F - 35 jet , which be still in the global supply chain and presumably could be buy by Israel , and he be silent on the use of RAF Akrotiri and the flight that overfly Gaza . be security co - operation with Israel continue ? be information be give to Israel that it can use to continue the disgraceful and disgusting bombing of starve people in Gaza ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for the opportunity to clarify that the british Government be not provide information to enable the bombing campaign in Gaza . the decision that we take in relation to arm suspension bind the whole government — they be not just the decision of the Foreign Office — and represent a sober , reason , serious analysis of the risk of breach of international humanitarian law , and they bind the Government in our approach . I will take brief issue with the right hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation of my remark , because I have be clear on the F - 35 point . we continue to be clear on that point . indeed , we have explain it at length in court . I thank the Minister for come to the House to make the statement and for the strong action that the Government be take to make it clear that we hold no truck with extremist who care nothing for peace , but we must go far . he will know the strength of feeling on the Labour Benches on this issue , particularly on recognition of a palestinian state . I reimpress that on he and hope that he will be here in a fortnight ' s time as the Minister who recognise Palestine . will he advise the House on what discussion he be have about the appalling interception of the british - flag yacht Madleen , yet again prevent much - need aid from reach the palestinian people ? I thank my hon . friend for her kind word . while I be always glad to come to the House , I reassure her constituent and those of many Labour Members that even be I not glad to do so , they would certainly summon I . I be always glad to answer question from my hon . friend , and indeed from hon . member on both side of the House . in relation to the Madleen , I confirm that the UK press the israeli authority before its arrival to ensure that any action take be in line with international law , would be undertake with restraint and would be resolve safely for the passenger on board . next week , I will be meet the family of some of the remain israeli hostage . I be sure that the whole House want to see their safe return , and want peace at last for the palestinian population of Gaza and the west bank . the killing , the misery , the starvation and the genocide have go on for far too long . will the Government do the right thing by recognise the state of Palestine now ? for a two - state solution , there must be two state . I will not rehearse the argument on recognition , but I know that so many hon . member , myself include , have meet hostage family who view the event with terrible dismay . I will not put word in their mouth from the Dispatch Box . their view be varied , their distress and their anger be palpable , and we have they in our thought every day . I thank the Minister for come to the House for the statement and the announcement of sanction . we have all watch with horror the scene of desperate people try to access food — the most basic thing that we need to survive . while we can understand why our constituent have a sense of hopelessness , we should not have that in this place , because we have considerable agency . what step be he take , with ally and aid organisation , to establish secure maritime corridor for humanitarian aid to Gaza ? do he agree with I and hon . member across the House that now be the time to recognise an independent sovereign state of Palestine ? I welcome the tone and spirit of my hon . friend ' s question . we do have agency in this House . the frustration that be feel by so many , both within and without the House , be completely understandable and justifiable . this Government have seek change and have be frustrate by how slow that change have be , but we will continue to work for a well situation for those in Gaza , for those in west bank and , of course , for those in Israel . my hon . friend ask about maritime corridor , which be an important but , ultimately , relatively peripheral part of any aid operation if it be to be at the scale require . there be maritime corridor support in an early phase of the conflict and they do important work , but ultimately the three road crossing into Jordan , Egypt and Israel be the most practical , most viable , and most try and test route to get aid in at the scale and with the flexibility require to meet the need of those in the strip . I welcome the announcement of sanction on two extremist Ministers . it be long overdue and it be a bare minimum . on its own , it be likely to do little to stop extremist , illegal settlement and violence against palestinian civilian . when will the Government implement a ban on settlement good to stop the economy that fuel illegal settlement ? will the Minister today , clearly and unequivocally , call for illegal settlement to be dismantle , as the International Court of Justice have direct ? I will not repeat the answer about settlement good that I give early , but I want to be absolutely clear for the House that settlement be illegal under israeli and international law and they should be dismantle . I welcome the sanction on israeli Government Ministers announce today . those two Ministers have show the world who they be for a long time and this step , while welcome , be long overdue . the Minister speak of the peril for the two - state solution . there can not be a two - state solution that be realise without two state , so will he take with he to the summit next week the clearly express will of this House that this Government take a lead in the recognition of the palestinian state ? also , be it not time for a full ban on settlement good , so that we can be sure that consumer in this country play no part in a clear strategic attempt to undermine even the possibility of a two - state solution ? I have hear the powerful intervention from my hon . friend and many other across the House on the question of recognition and settlement good . the question around settlement good be one of differentiate between israeli good — that is , those from within green line Israel — and those from illegal settlement . illegal settlement good be not eligible for the same trade provision as those from within green line Israel . to breach that labelling requirement and so not be clear where the good be produce be a breach of the relevant regulation . I want to clarify some of the Minister ' s early remark in response to question from my hon . friend the Member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) and in his previous answer . the Minister say early that the trade in good from settlement attract a high tariff . will he therefore confirm that the British Government , by raise tariff and taxis on that trade , be make money out of the illegal settlement in the west bank , and do he think that be acceptable ? not quite — there be trade arrangement between the UK and Israel . we consider Israel to be green line Israel ; we do not consider the occupy Palestinian Territories and the settlement within they to be part of green line Israel . we have separate arrangement with the Palestinian Authority . good produce in illegal settlement should be label as such . that be not , let I clarify , a money - make scheme for the British Government . have have a number of conversation with the Minister about the importance of the new sanction , I wholeheartedly welcome today ' s announcement . those two Ministers ' comment go well beyond what could be tolerate , accept or explain away , and I be really glad that we have play a lead role in pull together international partner to take a stand on this . however , as the Minister have point out , the humanitarian situation on the ground be get increasingly dire for Gazans , who have be long deprive of the access to aid that they desperately need , so with this renew call for international action that he have so clearly lay down today , how be we work with international partner to apply more pressure on Israel to finally get those land route open and uninhibited flow of aid back to the palestinian people ? I thank my hon . friend for his commitment to these issue and for his important question . as the House will see , the UK have lead with 26 of our ally on a statement on humanitarian issue , and with three leader from the UK , France and Canada , and today with five other in relation to the sanction on those two man . I can assure the House that we will work with a range of our partner in different format in order to achieve the objective that I know be feel so keenly right across the house . Ben - Gvir be so extreme that the israeli Government themselves ban he from join the army , and that be three decade ago . so if the Minister will please excuse I , I be not go to extend a warm welcome to this announcement . the fact be that this be a matter of trust . the Government tell we they be go to cease arm sale to Israel , yet F - 35 fighter jet part get to Israel , massacre young child . the Government tell we they be appal by the action of the israeli Government , yet Government Ministers find themselves party with the israeli ambassador and Holocaust trivialiser . the Government tell we that they be cease trade deal with Israel , yet the very next week a trade envoy be send to Israel to drum up business . who be the Government try to fool ? it be a shame that the hon . member do not feel in a position to welcome these announcement . these be important step take with our ally . the UK be lead the world on these issue , and we will continue to do so . I welcome the action that the Minister have announce today , but we can no long allow starve man , woman and child to be murder in cold blood while scramble for food or visit cemetery at Eid , or to be burn alive in their house . will the Minister please be bold , listen to the voice here tonight and lead the way by call for a state of Palestine , just to give hope to those Palestinians who be already work for peace and the right to self - determination ? my hon . friend have a long interest in the community of the region , and I recognise the emotion in her remark . we have talk this evening about sanction , about recognition and about aid . Hope will not feed the hungry people of the Gaza strip , and we will not cease until proper aid provision be provide to all those who need it in the strip . I will not repeat the answer I have already give about recognition . the sanction on the appalling extremist Ben - Gvir and Smotrich , while extremely overdue , be welcome — we on these liberal Democrat Benches have be call for they for some 16 month now . the Minister acknowledge in his statement that there be cross - party support for a two - state solution . he also say " when we say something , we mean it . " yet he have repeatedly refuse tonight to recognise the state of Palestine or to commit to recognise it at the summit next week . I remain wholly unconvinced by his reason for refuse to do so , so let I try a different tack . this evening there be report that the US ambassador to Israel , Mike Huckabee , have state that the US be no long pursue the goal of an independent state of Palestine . will this now bring a new urgency to recognise the state of Palestine and to the UK stand up and assume its historic responsibility in the region , when Trump be abandon the Palestinians ? I have answer the question about the approach to the conference . I have seek to be as clear as I can with the House about the importance of conduct diplomacy not on the Floor of the House , but with our ally and friend , in advance of such an important moment as next week . that be the approach that we will take . I thank the Minister for his commitment to peace , and for his unrelenting and tireless work towards it . a two - state solution must be protect . we can not let that light — that hope — be extinguish . he be quite right in his comment . today ' s strong action be right , and it be welcome by many of my constituent , but will he get even tough ? will he get more aid in , stop the settler violence , stop the illegal settlement , and take a message from this House and this country about protect Palestinians and their right to self - determination ? my hon . friend have be adamantly committed to these issue . he set out all the right objective , and I confirm to he that I take on board that message . last October , Lord Cameron say that , as Foreign Secretary , he have be work up plan to sanction extreme right - wing Ministers Smotrich and Ben - Gvir . what take the government so long ? I hear many report of what be be do in the Foreign Office on these question before I get there . I think the House will probably agree that , since we arrive in government , we have take rather a different approach across a whole range of question ; we restore funding to UNRWA on my very first day as a Minister and take the other step that we have discuss at some length . it be very interesting to hear Lord Cameron ' s recollection , but I be not sure that we will be take many lesson from they . a british surgeon in Gaza describe it as a " slaughterhouse " , baby be starve , and road to aid be be describe as " combat zone " by the IDF , so I welcome the sanction on israeli Ministers , who state that they be " destroy everything that remain in Gaza " . their action bear all the hallmark of ethnic cleansing and plausible genocide . it be clear that the majority of we in this place want to recognise the state of Palestine , as do many of the public . will the Minister feed back to the Prime Minister our strength of feeling on recognise Palestine now ? I know how strongly my hon . Friend feel about these question , and how strongly Luton feel about they — as do so many in Lincoln , Burnley and elsewhere . I will take that message . a two - state solution require all side to see it as achievable , desirable and sustainable , so what practical step have the Government take with international partner to rebuild and support the Palestinian Authority , and how will they ensure that Hamas have no role in palestinian governance , as the Minister say in his statement ? the hon . Gentleman ask a vital question . that be one of the central focus of the visit of the palestinian Prime Minister to the UK and the memorandum of understanding that we agree with he . we welcome the recent statement of the Palestinian Authority on vital reform , include on the so - call pay - for - slay provision for welfare , and their statement in recent day that Hamas must have no role in the future governance of Gaza . I certainly welcome the sanction against the two israeli Ministers , but collective responsibility dictate that the whole Cabinet be complicit , and the sanction should perhaps have go far . human right abuse be happen right in front of we . Settler violence have reach a record high . illegal settlement be be construct . over 55 , 000 innocent man , woman and child have die . humanitarian aid be be cruelly withhold . do the Minister agree that the recognition of the palestinian state must be the next step ? I thank my hon . friend for his commitment to these issue . I will not add to the answer on recognition that I have already give , nor will I speculate far on where future sanction might be target . People in Gaza be starve . those people be child , the sick and the elderly . the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation be unworkable and its operation be insufficient . will the Government not just press for but develop an alternative plan for take aid into the strip through a humanitarian corridor sponsor by the UN ? an alternative exist — an alternative that be try and test and have be develop over the course of this conflict — and it be call the United Nations and the international non - governmental organisation community . we do not need to reinvent the wheel . the UK and its partner already have a model available , ready and wait . aid from Britain , among many other place , be wait in place like al - Arish , close to the border with the strip . that operation must be allow to proceed . innocent palestinian civilian face a horrific choice : either they die of starvation , or they risk be kill while they queue up for aid . I welcome the sanction announce by the Minister , but I want to press he for more detail about his engagement with our international ally on collectively put pressure on the israeli Government to allow free - flow aid into Gaza for those who need it most , and who be in this situation through no fault of their own . as I have say , we have work with 26 partner on a statement on humanitarian issue , with five partner today on sanction , and as one of three leader . we will join our friend and ally at the two - state solution conference next week , and I can assure my hon . friend that we will continue to work with friend and ally in a variety of format to press these point . I pay tribute to the work of my Oxfordshire neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , for her work to try to get Palestine recognise . she have bring forward Bills in this House for many year to that effect . I also extend my thought to all UK Palestinians live here who fear for their family in Gaza . have the Minister tonight hear the House ' s wish to recognise palestinian statehood , and will he outline the step the Government be take to make sure that baby formula get through as aid into the strip ? mother be unable to feed their child , and it be terrify to watch on tv . I hope he will press on that matter in particular . I of course hear the voice of all parliamentarian who have speak today , and on the many other occasion when we have have to discuss these issue . like other member , the hon . Gentleman press I on one of many lifesave item that be not currently go into the strip in the volume require . they include medical provision , baby food , and the basic nutrition to deal with the famine that the IPC — Integrated Food Security Phase Classification — report warn all those in Gaza be at risk of . there be an urgent need for all such item to get in , and I assure he that we press that point . I welcome the sanction against extremist Ministers Ben - Gvir and Smotrich , whose dehumanising rhetoric have contribute to the land grab on the west bank and the destructive situation we see in Gaza . I thank the Minister and the Foreign Secretary for co - ordinate internationally on this , because together our action be more powerful . will he also co - ordinate on the devastating humanitarian situation , the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation and private military contractor ? we see civilian walk mile to get food ; indeed , some of they be be kill by the Israel Defence Forces while simply queue to get a meal , despite the state they be in . will he co - ordinate with his international partner to apply pressure , and to challenge this illegal and cruel mechanism , and what step will he take next week to ensure that the UK recognise the palestinian state ? my hon . friend rightly point to the limitation of the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation ; its model have prove deadly and incapable of supply aid at the scale require . we have co - ordinated with our partner in the way that I have describe . next week , with Egypt , we will co - chair a work group on the reconstruction of Gaza , and I assure he , as I have assure other member , that we will continue to work with our international partner on these question until the situation improve . this Government appear willing to sanction select israeli Ministers , while group that have openly support the terrorist who carry out the terrorist atrocity on 7 October be be platforme at event like Glastonbury festival . it certainly scream double standard . sadly , it be the jewish people in the UK who be leave to face the consequence , and who can not walk the street of London without be harass . how can the UK sanction people who do not live here while those who share their hatred walk freely among we ? I condemn antisemitism unreservedly , in London or anywhere else . let I be clear : Hamas — the whole organisation — be proscribe in the UK . when it come to Hamas , we do not make the careful differentiation that I have make this afternoon between israeli Ministers . the whole organisation , lock , stock and barrel , be proscribe by the UK Home Office . that have force under law , and it do not matter whether they be here or not . we continue to call on Hamas to release hostage , to return to a ceasefire , and to have no future role in the governance of Gaza . on 23 May , I stand in exactly the same spot where I be stand now and ask the Foreign Secretary to sanction Ben - Gvir and Smotrich , so I thank the Government for their action today . the palestinian people be now in existential crisis . even this week , we see the israeli military board a british - flagged vessel in international water and confiscate it . mass starvation event in Gaza continue , and as the Minister have say , there be increase settlement action on the west bank . I have be to the region and meet senior member of the Palestinian Authority , and I be proud that the Prime Minister take the Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority into Downing Street , and that we have a trade envoy to Palestine . the Palestinian Authority be a government under occupation , and have all the effect of government , so what be stop we from recognise they as the legitimate government of a state ? what be the Minister ' s view of the Palestinian Authority ? in our view , the Palestinian Authority be central to a two - state solution . we want to see it reform and strengthen , and in control of both Gaza and the west bank . the MOU that we sign with the Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority , Mr Mustafa , be part of those effort . I be grateful to the Minister for his personal effort to achieve some justice , and for the attempt to get aid into Palestine and Gaza in order to save life . however , as a new Member , I have be come to the Chamber for 11 month , ride on the coat - tail of many right hon . and hon . member who have go before I , and who be here today , who have be fight for this cause for many year before I arrive . we have hear only word and rhetoric from the Government ; there have be no meaningful action to save life , beyond the aid that be allow in early . what step be the Government take to finally get aid into Gaza , so that we can save the baby , the starve child , the mother and all of humanity ? otherwise , ten of thousand of people will no long be here in a few day ' time . I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word . the step that we have take have be concrete , but he be right that there remain terrible risk of famine and other circumstance that befall people when adequate aid be not allow in . when proper water and sanitation be not provide , the risk of further humanitarian catastrophe be considerable . we will continue to press those point with the israeli Government , alongside our friend and ally . if the UK Government fail to recognise the state of Palestine next week , what message will it send to the perpetrator of this genocide and to the suffer Palestinians ? I do not think I have very much to add on our approach to the conference next week . it be vital that we get a clear and accurate picture of what exactly be happen on the ground . that be absolutely essential to ensure transparency . what be this Government do to progress access for journalist into Gaza ? that be a vital question . the hon . Lady know that journalist and most aid worker be not able to operate in Gaza , which provide considerable uncertainty about the event happen there . we be call both for journalistic access and the access of aid worker and , vitally , for those people to be protect . More aid worker and many more journalist have be kill than anyone in this House could accept . we want people to be able to go in to deliver aid , to report freely and to be protect through deconfliction mechanism . every day I wake to news of further atrocity in Gaza , and every week constituent come to ask I to put more pressure on our Government to go far and fast . while I welcome the news of sanction and I commend the Minister for his hard work , surely this be just the beginning ; as he say , the gravity of the situation demand further action . we must ensure accountability for all breach of international humanitarian law . when will we recognise the state of Palestine ? how will we ensure that vital aid reach people in Gaza , who be beyond desperate ? I reassure my hon . friend ' s constituent that she do indeed press I on these issue , as do so many member on my own Government Benches and across the House . I be not sure I entirely agree with her characterisation that this be the beginning , but I assure she that it be not the end until progress be make . I certainly welcome the statement from the Minister with the imposition of sanction on the two israeli Ministers ; although it be late in the day , that none the less require our gratitude . give that we have adopt this new precedent , will the Minister agree that any Member of the Knesset use language similar to that of the two Israeli Ministers will receive similar sanction ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and the tone in which he ask it . I will not set out hypothetical circumstance under which we may take further sanction action from this Dispatch Box , but I reaffirm that the question and issue in these sanction be the breach of palestinian human right . that be the basis on which we will consider further sanction . I thank the Minister for this important statement , but the reality be that 93 % of child in Gaza — around 930 , 000 — face the critical risk of famine . he have outline what the Government have be do in the past few month and continue to do , but will he tell we what more the british Government could do to ensure that food and medicine reach people who be starve ? I assure my hon . friend that we be do all we can to try to ensure that food and medicine reach child and all those in need in Gaza . I will return to this House when I have further announcement . the Minister be much respect in this House . he have be at pain to emphasise that these sanction be be place on the people , not the Government , yet already medium headline out there be create the image that Israel be be sanction . will he underline and state the unwavering support that Israel have from he and this Government in its battle for survival against continued Hamas terrorism so that there can be no doubt that this nation remain stand with Israel ? as ever , I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word and his courtesy in this House . I can reaffirm that this government support the existence of the state of Israel , and we will continue to stand on its defence when require . I thank the Minister for his statement and hard work , and I believe he be genuinely concerned about what be happen in Gaza . we all want a two - state solution , a safe and secure Israel , and a sovereign state of Palestine , and we have already say that the illegal settlement of Israel be something that we condemn . we recognise the state of Israel . can the Minister please give an explanation as to why we can not now recognise the state of Palestine ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word and his important question . he know our commitment to a palestinian state as set out in our manifesto , and I will not rehearse they . it be our job as the British Government to create the condition in which a palestinian state can be viable and sovereign and can live in safety alongside a safe and secure Israel . it be to that task that we continue to put our effort . I thank my hon . friend for his statement . I welcome the sanction that have be take today against Ben - Gvir and Smotrich because their rhetoric and action towards the palestinian people be dangerous and extremist . but this be the third set of sanction impose by our Government against violent settler and settlement entity , and they have unfortunately not stop food be use as a weapon of war . what do the Minister think will stop food be use as a weapon of war , and what more can we do to ensure that humanitarian aid be deliver into Gaza as a matter of urgency ? my hon . friend be exactly right to highlight the importance of aid not be use in service of a military or political objective . it must be deliver in a principled way in accordance with humanitarian principle . the United Nations and our international NGO partner have long experience of deliver aid in that way . that be why I have say over the course of the evening that we have an alternative to the GHF that will work , and that be the UN - support operation . I welcome the Minister ' s statement to the House and the step the UK Government be take thus far . the humanitarian assistance must not be obstruct , politicise or treat as a threat . what concrete step be the UK Government take to ensure that aid reach all area of Gaza without further delay or interference by the Israel Defence Forces to allow aid worker to carry out their lifesave work without fear of injury or death , to secure the release of hostage back to their family and to finally recognise the state of Palestine ? on aid provision within Gaza , as I know my hon . friend will be aware , there have be much discussion on the importance of there be multiple distribution site far in excess of those currently available . that help manage the pressure and provide more humane condition for aid delivery , and that be what we want to see in the strip . I thank the Minister for his diligence and his patient answer and for an excellent statement . I agree with every word of it , and I appreciate the action that the Government have take to sanction two Ministers , both of whom have express genocidal intent . the Minister be also correct in say that the two - state solution be in peril . it seem from today that there be an overwhelming majority in this place that support the immediate recognition of Palestine , and I sense from his answer that the Government be move in that direction . what can he also do around the ICJ judgment that the west bank have be annex , and what more can we do to ensure that other be punish for their crime in the west bank ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word and his important question . I be sure that , with the permission of the Speaker , I will be back in this House next week to discuss recognition and event at the conference in great detail . on the question of the advisory opinion , which I know he know be a far - reach and complex advisory opinion , we will return to this House when we be in a position to give a full response to what be a complex and novel legal opinion . I thank the Minister for his strong statement today and the sanction he have outline . I have listen carefully to his word , and he have speak about the risk of empty slogan on the path to a two - state solution . I agree , but I fear we will be the last generation of diplomat and politician for whom the option of recognise the state of Palestine be on the table . will he reflect on that before next week ' s meeting ? my hon . Friend ask an important question . it be very much on the mind of all those in the Government who work on these issue that the viability of a two - state solution require physical fact on the ground . it require territory for two state , and clearly , illegal settlement proceed at the rate I describe in my statement be an impediment and a threat to that two - state solution . I thank my hon . friend for his statement and warmly welcome the action that have be announce today . this Government say that they would take concrete action , and they have . however , give the urgency of the situation face million of Gazans , with starvation just around the corner , and give what we know about what the israeli Government have do so far , may I respectfully ask the Minister to tell we what next ? I thank my hon . friend , both for her kind word and her commitment to these issue ; I can reassure her constituent that she raise they with I regularly . with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I be sure I will return to the House next week to talk about the conference and the next step . I hope that the situation improve : that we see aid reach Gaza , that we see a ceasefire , and that we can start to talk about these issue in a more measured way in this House , reflect that the situation be not as urgent as it be today . until that time , I be sure I will be return to the House with further update , as I have be do . I welcome the Minister ' s announcement of the sanction on these two racist and extremist Ministers , but they do not go far enough . they be not go to stop the expansion of settlement or the settler violence , because we know that that expansion be state - fund , state - sanction and state - support . what we need now be recognition of a palestinian state , and I hope that the Minister will come back to the Chamber next week to inform the House that that have happen . if that be the case , what be the next step once recognition be agree ? my hon . friend be commit to these issue , although I be sure she would not expect I to speculate at this point about what hypothetical next step might be . I be sure I will be return to this House , and I be sure I will continue to discuss these issue with she . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , have visit both Israel and Palestine just a few week ago . I welcome the Minister ' s statement today , as sanction these two extremist individual be exactly the right thing to do ; they be enemy of peace , and no two - state solution will ever be achieve while they be in post . it be also clear to I that Prime Minister Netanyahu have come to rely on these two Ministers for his political survival , and the feeling on the ground in Israel among ordinary Israelis — back up by consistent polling — be that they do not support their Prime Minister and will change their government at the first opportunity at the next election . will the Minister set out how the UK Government can not only sanction those who seek to destroy peace , but support those who champion moderation and peacemaking in the region , both in Palestine and in Israel ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , both for his question and the travel he have recently undertake . as I be sure he would expect , I will not be draw on question about Israel ' s democratic process — clearly , their election be a matter for they — but I can assure my hon . friend that we do everything that we can to try to support peacemaker on both side of this conflict to find common cause . I welcome these sanction , and pay tribute to my hon . friend for all his hard work ; I thank he and official for everything they be do . as other colleague have do , I also ask he to ensure that we can recognise Palestine at the UN conference , which will be a big moment . the US be a key partner in this work , and my hon . friend — the Minister , I should say — will know that the US ambassador to Israel have say that the goal of an independent palestinian state be no long something it be pursue . what discussion be we have with the US on that ? my hon . friend be kind , and I be grateful for her word . she be very welcome to call I her hon . friend . the question that she raise be key . we discuss these issue with our friend and our ally . not all our position be the same , but I will always set out with clarity , both from this Dispatch Box and in all my diplomatic engagement , the position of the UK Government . I welcome the sanction outline by my hon . friend today , and I thank he for all the work he have do . I know his commitment to the palestinian people and the concern he have , which he share with we on a regular basis . action have be require for some time . the up and come UN conference on a two - state solution be an opportunity to work with ally or alone to recognise the palestinian state . may I add my voice to that request and ask my hon . friend : if not then , when ? I once again thank my hon . friend for her kind word and recognise her force of feeling on the question of recognition . as I say early , I be sure I will be back in this House and continue to discuss these issue with she . I very much welcome the recognition in the statement today of what be go on in the west bank . I raise the issue of settler violence and the suppression of palestinian right several week ago in the House , follow the disgraceful event we see over Easter with the suppression of worship . I very much welcome the sanction we have see today . my hon . friend talk about a two - state solution , but as other member have say , we need two state for a two - state solution . what we be see from the israeli Government be a clear attempt to stop there be a viable palestinian state . what my constituent want and what the palestinian people want be recognition . we need to do more , and next week be the perfect opportunity for we to recognise a palestinian state . it be need now . my hon . friend point to his long record , with which I be familiar , of press these point . he be right to say that a two - state solution clearly require two state . it be vital that nobody , not in Israel or anywhere else , foreclose that possibility . I welcome these sanction , which need to be see in the context of £ 129 million of extra aid , the refunding of UNRWA , sanction on settler , the suspension of the arm trade and , importantly , the suspension of trade negotiation . that be the context of the action by this Government . however , the suffering go on and it be not accidental ; it be deliberate . the achievement of these sanction today be a result of this Government work with other government . we know that we achieve more together than we do alone . in that context , and with the summit next week , will the Minister take the message from across this House and from all our constituency and community that Britain want a recognition of the palestinian state unequivocally , immediately and unconditionally ? that be a message from Britain to the summit next week . my hon . friend speak with real force and authority , and I have hear her message clearly . this israeli Government continue to perpetrate horrific and appalling violence against palestinian people , and that be also against the interest of Israel and israeli people . we know that Hamas be only interested in death and destruction . I welcome the action today as a sign of willingness to take action against anyone who might be a bar or a block to a two - state solution . the Minister have already hear from member from all part of the House and be urge to take specific step , but will he confirm what option be open to he to support and strengthen the overwhelming majority of Israelis and Palestinians who want a peaceful future ? what action can he take against anyone who be a bar to a two - state solution in the future ? my hon . friend have rightly focus on the important question that be at issue , such as how we can maintain the viability of a two - state solution . that be the only route to peaceful harmony , with two state side by side , and it be on that objective that our effort be focused . I thank the Minister for his leadership on this issue . one of the most regular attender at my surgery be a palestinian woman who have lose both friend and family in this conflict . her cousin die recently . each time she come , it be hard for I to tell she that the Government be do all that they can to protect the life and right of Palestinians . on Saturday she bring a gift , because it be the day after Eid , but she be also angry and tearful . I be ashamed , because I could not tell she that our Government be do all that they could in this situation . the Minister have say twice in his response that deliver aid directly by sea and by air be inefficient , but surely efficiency be not the aim here ; save life be . surely inefficient aid be well than no aid . will the Minister look at this again , with our international partner , to see what aid we can deliver to these people ? my hon . friend speak with the painful authority of one who have clearly take a great deal of time to get to know someone who be face truly dreadful circumstance in Gaza . I be grateful to all those , on my Benches and beyond , who take part in such engagement and share it with I . I recognise how heavily the responsibility weigh on we , both constituency Members and , of course , those of we in the Government . it be not simply inefficiency that make I counsel the House repeatedly not to focus on air and sea route . we do keep they under regular review , and we discuss they with our partner , particularly our friend and ally in Jordan , who have conduct important airlift of aid into the Gaza strip . the reason I counsel the House in the way that I do be that I see so many of these case , and I be so conscious of the aggregate demand . if we can get aid safely into Gaza in a way that be consistent with humanitarian principle , of course we will do so . I can reassure my hon . friend and his constituent that we keep that under regular review , but I must be honest with the House and say that it be road route that will meet the scale and the manner that be require . I thank the Minister for his work on so many important issue in the region , and for find the time to answer question from member in all part of the House so thoroughly over the past two hour . I also welcome his important announcement about sanction that draw an essential distinction between the far - right extremist Ministers and the people of Israel as a whole . we desperately need a ceasefire , we need more aid to get into Gaza to alleviate the horrendous human suffering , and we need the hostage who be still be hold to be release . what further step will the Government take towards achieve all those objective ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word and for his commitment to issue throughout the region . he have be raise the concern of his constituent with I since we be both first elect , and I be sure that he will continue to do so . I know that many people in Chipping Barnet be focus not just on the horror that we have discuss in relation to aid provision and on the violence , but on the circumstance of the hostage , who remain very much in our mind . there be a british mother who be wait for the safe return of her son . we will not cease our effort to try to secure the release of those hostage . I welcome the sanction against Smotrich and Ben - Gvir , and the coalition that be build to exert maximum pressure . it be very significant , as the Government ' s sanction have be in other context around the world relate to human right , corruption and other issue . next week ' s conference will be critical to , in the Minister ' s word , " defend the vision and viability of two side live side by side in peace . " surely it be time to recognise the state of Palestine and agree a credible timeline with ally to bring this about . will the Minister confirm that that be the Government ' s objective ? my hon . friend have extensive experience of international coalition building and of take step against those who support corruption or who , as in this case , breach human right . I can confirm that we will work with our friend and ally to try to preserve a path to a two - state solution at the conference next week , in the way that he set out . I thank both the Minister and Members for their perseverance . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Criminal Law that the draft Justice and Security ( Northern Ireland ) Act 2007 ( extension of Duration of Non - jury Trial Provisions ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 6 May , be approve . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . Grenfell Tower Fire : Eighth Anniversary Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) on Saturday , we mark eight year since 72 people lose their life in the Grenfell Tower fire — eight year of fighting for truth , eight year without justice , and eight year of too often glacial change . this will be the last anniversary before the tower start to come down , and it will no long stand as a painful symbol of injustice , greed and impunity on the west London skyline . as the tower start to be deconstruct , it be even more important that we remember the 72 people who lose their life , and I be sure that this House will continue to stand united with their family , the survivor and the community until justice be serve and systemic change be implement . I thank my hon . friend for make a powerful opening statement on the really important and tragic anniversary that be come up . of the 72 people who lose their life , 18 be child . some 37 resident be disabled , and 15 of they die . do my hon . friend agree that even though the tower will come down in a few year , the trauma , suffering , pain and anguish will live with the people of Grenfell for many year to come ? I thank the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee for her intervention . I completely agree with she , and the legacy must be the systemic change that I talk about . many of the people who lose their life in Grenfell be disabled , so I welcome the Government ' s commitment to lay regulation that will mandate personal emergency evacuation plan for disabled people , which be a crucial step forward . I know that the Minister have recently take fire safety into his brief and will look closely at the resource to make sure that such plan be implement and available for disabled people . may I commend the hon . gentleman for bring forward this issue ? it be appropriate and right that this House should recall the tragic event of 14 June 2017 and pay tribute to all of the 72 innocent life that be lose — I think the House be unite in thinking of those family . although the fire happen in 2017 , the memory linger long for the family who lose love one . the Crown Prosecution Service have indicate that decision regard potential charge be not expect until late 2026 , which will be almost a decade from when it happen . do the hon . Member agree that more effort must be make to expedite the process , to ensure that family and friend have justice and the closure that they need to grieve and move on with their life ? I thank the hon . member for express his solidarity , and he be right . the finding of the public inquiry that report in September be devaste : the simple truth be that the death that occur be all avoidable . I know we must respect the criminal investigation and avoid say anything that jeopardise that process , but on behalf of our community , I simply say to our Government that until there be criminal accountability for those responsible , there will be no justice . I would like to send my condolence to the family , friend and love one of all those who lose their life eight year ago . do my hon . friend agree with I that , if justice be to be deliver , the Government need to think very carefully about deliver on the Hillsborough law and the duty of candour ? I absolutely agree . I applaud the Prime Minister ' s personal commitment to bring in the Hillsborough law . at the party conference in September last year , he say that the law be " for the sub - postmaster in the Horizon scandal . the victim of infected blood . Windrush . Grenfell Tower . and all the countless injustice over the year , suffer by work people at the hand of those who be suppose to serve they . " those be the Prime Minister ' s word . I agree that we should see that law introduce before we return to Liverpool later this year , and see it accompany by a national oversight mechanism , so that victim can be independently reassure that inquiry recommendation deliver meaningful change . the sad truth be that we know that if the lesson from the Lakanal House fire in 2009 have be learn , as the coroner intend , it be very likely that the Grenfell tragedy could have be prevent . we can not allow that to happen again . for the community of North Kensington , Grenfell will always be in our heart , and I welcome the hard work of the Grenfell Tower Memorial Commission to select a fitting permanent tribute to the memory of the 72 , but our community need continue support today . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister , the Minister for building safety , the Mayor of London and the many other elect official for their regular visit to North Kensington and their engagement with the community . they will know that , as the tower be bring down , it be vital that community health service , include mental health service , be maintain , and I hope our local NHS leadership , work with the Government , can make sure that those service remain at least for the period of deconstruction . it be also essential that survivor have the monitoring they need to spot and address long - term health condition that may arise . for the resident around the tower , change have also be too long in come . I regularly meet the resident of the Lancaster West estate , the Silchester estate and many other . on the Lancaster West estate , there be now the prospect of an £ 85 million gap in the budget to complete the major work that be promise by local and central Government after the fire . clearly , no project of this scale should be overrun so dramatically , but that promise to resident must be keep . I call on the Minister to do all he can , work with the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea , to find a solution . the challenge go much wide than Lancaster West . since be elect , I have deal with thousand of housing case relate to poor - quality repair , damp and mould , and a culture of disrespect , especially for social housing tenant . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate . eight year on , we remember the deep sorrow , and stand with the survivor and family . Grenfell really do expose failure in build safety and massive social inequality . at the time , I be a teacher , and the death of those child be tragic . now I be an MP , I think it be upon we to do all we can in this place not only to bring those people social justice and the justice they deserve , but to make sure it do not happen again . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . I do applaud the many step the Government be take on this issue — for example , on professionalise the housing sector and implement Awaab ' s law on damp and mould . as she state , the truth be that without real change , all of we in this House know that a tragic case such as that of Awaab Ishak could easily happen again . in my constituency , that mean that the purpose of the RBKC , notte Hill Genesis , Peabody , Octavia and other should be to serve the resident , not to make their life a misery , as too often end up happen . we have launch a local campaign on safe and healthy home to try to address the systemic failure in the community around Grenfell . there will be no justice until the painfully slow process of remediate unsafe building across the country be complete . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate . last week , the resident of more than 40 flat in Barbourne Works , Worcester , be suddenly evict after an inspection of unremediated cladding find such severe fire hazard that an immediate prohibition notice be issue . how that be able to happen be a question that must be answer . in the meantime , do the Minister agree that the building manager — in this case , FirstPort — must put resident first , and must not be allow to let legal dispute or the allocation of blame slow down the urgent work of make the building safe and allow resident to return home ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , and I agree — it be staggering that hundred of thousand of people be still live in building like the one he describe , with major fire defect . member across the House from up and down the country will have constituent affect , with people trap in unsellable property , leaseholder on the hook for non - clad defect , and social housing provider sink fund into remediation that could be spend on build the new social home our country desperately need . I thank my hon . friend and neighbour for secure this debate , and for realise from the first day he be elect that he be the Member for not only Kensington and bayswater , but Grenfell . it be good that the Government be implement all 58 recommendation of phase 2 of the inquiry , but do my hon . friend agree that the four - year timetable be a long time to wait on top of the eight year that have already pass ? I thank my hon . friend for make that very valid point . it be good news that the Government have accept all of Sir Martin Moore - Bick ' s recommendation , and I applaud they for take the time to come back in detail rather than rush a response . however , it be absolutely vital that timeline be meet . the example of the slow pace of change on remediation be a warning to we all that this matter have to be grip from the centre if we want to see systemic change . in another example , share ownership leaseholder in my constituency at Shaftesbury Place — a property manage by Notting Hill Genesis — see their building insurance soar by more than 2 , 000 % after a fire safety inspection . that be an increase of £ 5 , 000 a year in individual service charge . those resident contest the report and the recommendation , and I hope that notte Hill Genesis will work out a reasonable solution , but that be an example of what have to be fix . the building insurance market may require Government intervention , as we do with flooding . I know the Minister agree that we must quicken the pace of remediation , and I urge he to consider what more the Government can do to underwrite the major work now , so that people do not have to wait . the good example of such action would be to widen access to the building safety fund to social housing provider so that they can put more capital into maintain the condition of their current home and into build new home . I know the Government be also focused on give the Building Safety Regulator the resource it need so that we can rightly enforce high standard post Grenfell , as well as accelerate house building and avoid unnecessary delay . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate . I hope we will continue to debate this matter in the year to come , and that we can start to talk about the positive that have come out of it in term of the recommendation and the life that will be save and change . eight year on , in Scotland — my hon . friend might be surprised that that be what I be go to talk about — there be 5 , 500 property affect by flammable cladding , with 25 , 000 people live in they . I sense my hon . friend ' s frustration over the pace of remediation in England , and in particular in his own constituency ; in Scotland , after eight year , just one building have be remediate . hopefully in England , the pace be fast than that . I thank my hon . friend for share those statistic . I think the reality be that the money be there ; what we need to do be go build by build and solve the problem . that be where I welcome the Government ' s emphasis on devolve some of the decision making , for example , to a London remediation board , which might be something to look at for other part of the country . I be sure the House would appreciate an update on the Prime Minister ' s welcome commitment on 4 September that all the company find by the inquiry to have be part of these horrific failing will stop be award Government contract . as the inquiry say , the company that make the cladding and insulation product — Arconic , Celotex and Kingspan — behave with " systematic dishonesty " and " engage in deliberate and sustained strategy to manipulate the testing process , misrepresent test datum and mislead the market . " one glare matter to arise from the inquiry be this mention of the corporate greed of some of the developer . it be right , as my hon . Friend say , that the Government will be look to ban those contract . survivor have also ask for prosecution to come forward . do he agree that , in addition to the Government ban those company from receive other contract , there should be additional funding for the Met police so that they can swiftly bring to justice those who be responsible for this ? I know that this be one of the big team that the Met police have in operation , and of course it be right that they keep the funding in place until their work come to fruition . I also agree with my hon . friend that we must make sure that taxpayer ' money be no long go to those company . I hope the Minister can give we some reassurance on that timeline , and that he can reassure we that , under the new system of construction product regulation , the same mistake will not be make again . real change be hard . I have always believe , as Martin Luther King say , that while " the arc of the moral universe be long , it bend toward justice . " for that , we need to act now in a way that will protect people in the future . as I mention early , the introduction of the Hillsborough law , the national oversight mechanism , and the Government ' s own reporting on inquiry recommendation and how they will be implement , will all give people reassurance that this can not happen again . Grenfell be the most devastating residential fire since the world war two and the pain can never be erase , but I want to give the final word to one of the young people in our community who give I hope . Noha Chentouf be 16 and be the new youth mayor for Kensington and Chelsea . I attend an event with she and other young leader at Tate Britain last night . these be part of her word : " they trim the budget , not the risk then sign its safety with the flick of a wrist but it be fine , they save a few grand who need an alarm when profit be the main plan we ' re suppose to give our trust to people who don ' t care about our well be no matter how many complaint they ' re go to fail see exactly what the resident be foresee and they sit in a meeting full of complaint but they ' re disagree end in disaster with many flee but 72 couldn ' t make be alive a life lose be a light lose but that doesn ' t mean the fight ' s lose . " I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) for secure this opportunity to mark this weekend ' s eighth anniversary of the tragedy at Grenfell Tower and the loss of 72 innocent life , include , as we have hear , 18 child . time have not diminish the horror , the pain or the impact of that day — the life of family and the community change forever . my hon . friend have raise an awful lot of important point , and I hope to be able to cover they all . they be in keep with his outstanding advocacy for his community . in the building safety space , there be no Member I speak to more than he ; we will be together again tomorrow . I want to put it on the record that he push and press I , quite rightly , in the interest of his community , day in , day out . the most important tribute , though , be to the community , because for eight long year they have campaign and fight for truth , justice and change . the Deputy Prime Minister and I be resolute in listen to they . we want to ensure that the bereaved , survivor , next of kin and resident voice be hear , include at the heart of Government . we will continue to work until the lesson from the Grenfell Tower fire have change the system that lead to that tragedy . I thank the Minister for his word and for attend the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee to give an update on behalf of the Government . the Committee hear from Grenfell United and survivor that for far too long social housing tenant be be ignore and dismiss . there be no recommendation or term of reference in the inquiry on race or discrimination , but do he agree that the discrimination of disabled and black and minority ethnic resident be a contribute factor in the tenant be fail ? it have always be clear to I , in my conversation with the bereaved and survivor and with family and next of kin , that the demographic in term of race speak their own story , and that be similarly the case with disability . that be why it have inform our policy in PEEPs , which I will talk to shortly , as well as our entire agenda around resident ' voice in social housing , which I will also come on to . my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) and I discuss this when we be in the very early stage of our time as member of Parliament , and I know exactly where I be sit during the discussion we have then — I can see it but 10 metre from here . as I have say in every debate of this kind since I have be a Minister , if we have say to ourselves then that in eight year we would have achieve as little as we have , we would have think that a significant failure . it be a significant failure , and I want those watch this debate to know that we understand that . my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater say that the progress be glacial . that be exactly right , and it behove we to change that with real intent . that be my commitment and the Deputy Prime Minister ' s commitment . last September , Sir Martin Moore - Bick publish the inquiry ' s final report . it be a hugely important staging post and driver for action . the finding be clear : the system fail at every point — public , private , local , national . family be fail . resident ' voice be ignore . dishonest practice be propagate . the Prime Minister have apologise on behalf of the british state for its part in the failure that lead to entirely avoidable death . I want to repeat the Prime Minister ' s word : it should never have happen . we publish our response to the inquiry in February . we accept the finding and commit to deliver on all 58 recommendation and to go far through a broad approach to reform , include with regard to construction product . last month we publish our progress report on delivery , and we will continue to report on a quarterly basis . the next progress report in September will be a very big one , because we will also publish our full implementation plan , set out how we will deliver the recommendation . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and bayswater that the legacy must be system change . I agree with what my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) say about it be a long time , and I know from speak to the bereaved and survivor that they be frustrated that some of the recommendation will take time . the commitment I will make from this Dispatch Box be that nothing will take a day long than it have to take . we be work with urgency and intent , and we will be very transparent as we do . I appreciate that the Minister be work around the clock on this issue . I know that it be very important to he and that there be big challenge in his portfolio . do he agree that because there be so many compete demand on the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , include look at build safety and the Minister ' s new responsibility on fire safety , a clear way to ensure that the Government continue to keep focus on this issue be through a national oversight mechanism ? it will help the Government ensure that there be clear deadline and timeframe for the recommendation , which the Government have rightly accept . I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s intervention ; she pre - empt my next point . before I move on , I want to recognise the point from my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , who say that he hope that we will have opportunity to debate our progress . we have commit to an annual debate in this place about our progress , and we will have those debate until we have deliver on the recommendation . turn to oversight , we be commit to transparency , accountability and scrutiny . it be entirely right that the community , have be fail in the way that they have , want to see very clear accountability . we will record all recommendation make by public inquiry on gov . uk by next summer , backdate it to 2024 , so there will be public tracking of inquiry recommendation . that meet the commitment under the Grenfell Tower inquiry review . my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green know that I will refer to the point I make at her Select Committee . the Cabinet Office , as part of its ongoing inquiry work , be explore how to improve scrutiny and accountability for all inquiry response , so that action can be take more quickly . I would not want to run ahead of that . to address the point from my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) , we remain fully committed to a Hillsborough law , which will include a legal duty of candour for public servant and criminal sanction for those who refuse to comply . I turn now to justice , which the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater speak with real power about . when I talk to the bereaved and survivor about whatever the matter of the day be , they always say to I , " yes , Alex , but that be not justice yet . " I know that , and the Prime Minister acknowledge last year that the inquiry final report , while expose the truth , do not yet bring the justice that family rightly deserve . again , I be aware of the frustration in this area and the strong feeling that accountability have yet to be achieve . we continue to support the independent Metropolitan Police Service as it conduct its investigation — we know how important that be . I want to touch on the tower itself . as my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater say , this will be a poignant anniversary because it will be the final one with the tower as it be . we will continue to work closely with bereaved family , survivor , next of kin and resident as we prepare work to carefully take down Grenfell Tower , start in the autumn . they will remain at the heart of this work . as we look to the future , we be commit to support the independent memorial commission in its important work to create a fitting and lasting memorial determine by the community . the Deputy Prime Minister and I will continue — as we have throughout — to meet with anyone who want that , to listen and act on the issue we be raise and , more importantly , the issue they raise with we . I know that there be a lot of anxiety that as the tower be carefully take down , the moment for the Grenfell community will be forget . again , I want to give an assurance on that . I know that , with these colleague behind I , that will never be the case , but for the Government it will not be either . as my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green say , this be a moment of trauma for individual , so it be crucial that really good mental health support be available for the community . I and the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) , be raise that with the integrate care board to ensure that the right mental health service be there , the right screening facility be there , and there be the right screening for child and young people , which be such a community priority . I will work with my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and bayswater in that venture to ensure that those healthcare service be there . it be clear and accept that the royal borough of Kensington and Chelsea also fail . the leadership have commit to change and have take important step forward , but we still hear from too many resident that they be not get the experience they should . the Deputy Prime Minister and I have meet the leader of the council , and we have challenge the council to become an exemplar as a fitting legacy for this tragedy . we will continue to hold the council to account until resident feel and see the change . my hon . Friend mention the Lancaster West estate . I be conscious that even before that terrible night in 2017 , resident there have live on a building site for a very long time . they say that to I every time I see they . the council have a huge gap in funding — he say it be £ 85 million and I would say £ 84 million , but it be a significant gap either way . I will continue to work with he , the resident ’ association — I know that its able chair , Mushtaq Lasharie , will press we at every opportunity , as he rightly always do — and the council on how to take the issue forward . the hon . Gentleman mention PEEPs , which have recently become a responsibility of mine and of MHCLG . as he say , we be look to lay secondary legislation as soon as we can . I be committed to work with disability group to ensure that the guidance and the toolkit in its implementation be as good as possible . we have commit funding this year , and any future funding will be part of the spending review process , which be come to its peroration tomorrow . I agree with my hon . friend ' s point on the pace of remediation . I inherit a trajectory that take we into the 2040s . our remediation acceleration plan — certainly for building above 18 metre with unsafe cladding in a Government scheme — concertina that to 2029 . we will be update our remediation acceleration plan this summer to push even far on what we can do to get quick remediation . my hon . Friend mention the challenge around social housing and the impact that have not just on remediation but on building . those point be very well make . we will announce our long - term plan in that space shortly . I thank the Minister for be generous in give way . one of the issue constantly raise by register social landlord be that they can not apply for the building safety remediation . will we see an update on that in the come week , and perhaps in announcement tomorrow ? on a point of fact , RSLs can access the building safety fund and clad safety scheme , but I have hear from they that the circumstance in which they can do that — basically , declare a degree of financial distress — be difficult for they , and I understand that . I can not be draw on any event upcoming ; all I will say be that my hon . friend ' s suggestion have an awful lot of merit . will the Minister give way on that point . I will , but quickly , because I be down to second . I want to recognise that so many lease - holder in my Liverpool Riverside constituency have be affect by the delay in remediation . their life be on hold because they can not sell their flat and they can not move forward . we need to look at what we can do to try to support those leaseholder . I totally agree . those trap be live in intolerable circumstance . as part of the update to the remediation acceleration plan , we will have more about what we can do to provide they with relief . in conclusion , this have be a hugely important debate . we will have many more , and we will work our hard to deliver justice for the community as quickly as we possibly can . question put and agree to . House adjourn .