business before Questions Committee of Selection Ordered , that Rebecca Harris be discharge from the Committee of Selection and Mike Wood be add . — ( Mark Tami . ) Oral Answers to Questions Defence the Secretary of State be ask — improve Service life : Personnel and family what step he be take to improve service life for serve personnel and their family . over the last year , service morale fall to record low , with over 300 more full - time personnel leave the force than join each month . we can not reverse these deep - set problem overnight , but this Government be put people at the heart of our defence plan , and today will see the second reading of our legislation to establish an independent Armed Forces Commissioner to improve service life . the package announce this weekend of 20 hour of fund wraparound childcare for family deploy overseas be very welcome . can the Minister please assure we that this type of practical assistance will be a fundamental pillar of the Government ' s support for force family ? I can indeed . support our service family be really important , especially when they be far from home , and this scheme will reduce the burden of childcare cost for those eligible family overseas . this be a Government who be deliver for defence and put our force personnel at the heart of our defence plan . the Royal Fleet Auxiliary be often overlook , yet it be vital to the sustainability and success of our Royal Navy . often its pay and condition do not keep track with either the armed force or the civil service . what can the Secretary of State say to member of the RFA to reassure they that they be value ? over the last decade or more , we have be expect more of those member of the Royal Fleet Auxiliary . they play a critical role in our maritime operation and they be highly value as part of our service community . we see an important future for that service as part of build Britain ' s defence for the future , and we be put force personnel and RFA personnel at the heart of our plan to ensure that we be more secure at home and strong abroad . we come to the shadow Secretary of State . on the subject of improve service life for service personnel and their family , thousand of family will be get the unwelcome Christmas present this year of a 20 % tax on the school fee that they pay to fund an independent boarding school or , otherwise , will have to allow their child ' s education to be constantly destabilise . give that this new tax be 100 % the responsibility of the Government , will the Secretary of State confirm that the continuity of education allowance will be uplifted to fund 100 % of the new tax on those fee ? we will uprate the continuity of education allowance to reflect the increase in school fee from January . we will do that so that the allowance continue to maintain the schooling of the many child of personnel that be deploy . our mission as a Government be to lift the morale of our service . that be why we be invest in our servicemen and woman , support their family and start to fix the problem of the last 14 year that we have inherit . RFA Sir Galahad Bombing what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential merit of publish all board of inquiry document on the bombing of RFA Sir Galahad . follow on from our recent discussion , I would like to reiterate that the service and sacrifice make by those on board Sir Galahad will never be forget . after any incident that result in loss of life , people will always ask themselves , " what if something different have happen ? " however , the loss on Sir Galahad be the result of enemy action , and enemy action alone . under the Public Records Act 1958 we protect personal datum and information , but we have recently review further file and I look forward to meet my hon . friend this month to discuss the issue far . falkland veteran from the Welsh Guards , include my constituent Mike Hermanis , continue to campaign to uncover the truth behind the attack on the Sir Galahad in June 1982 . I know that the Minister be already work on this , but with time marching on , will he agree to meet not only I , but colleague and , crucially , veteran from the campaign to discuss release the remain document from the board of inquiry so that those veteran and the family of those who die can finally get to the truth ? I would welcome a discussion with my hon . friend about engage with the veteran community from Sir Galahad , and I look forward to our meeting later this month . I have many friend who serve out there , and the after - effect of that disaster — death , burn human being — still bang on and resonate with they today . all they want be to know why they be there at the wrong time . who give the order ? the report be critical . it be not just a case of they be damage or kill by enemy action ; it be about the incompetence of those who put they in the wrong place at the wrong time , leave they open to that simple , terrible attack . there be much chaos in conflict , as the right hon . Gentleman know , and the Ministry of Defence in no way blame the Welsh Guards for the event of that tragic day . my official have be review further file , and two extract from the board of inquiry have be review and be now within the open record at the National Archives . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) for her sustained campaign for transparency . my constituent Oliver Richardson , the mayor of Deal , be just 21 when he survive the sinking . I welcome the Minister ' s offer of a meeting , and I ask to be include , please . absolutely . I emphasise how mystify it be that these document have not already be release , 40 year after the conflict . it be not about identify blame or who be responsible . in my view , it be about make sure that lesson be transparently learn for future operation about command chain and accountability during conflict . what be the reason for withhold these document ? will the Minister show compassion for those who still live with this , whether as bereaved relative or as people bear the scar and injury of this dreadful event ? first of all , I have compassion for those injure or wound in combat , after see many throughout my career . I assure the House that the individual lesson learn from this conflict have be spread throughout the Department and into the single service . five file , comprise 308 witness statement , be closed and , under the term of the Public Records Act 1958 , these witness statement will remain closed until 2065 . however , we will look at review some of these statement , and we will provide a view in due course . Strategic Defence Review what his Department ' s planned timetable be for the strategic defence review . the strategic defence review be the first of its kind in the UK . it be externally lead and draw widely on expert within Government and the military , as well as those from industry , academia and our ally . the reviewer will report in the spring . with the increase threat we see around the world , the Government be entitle to conduct a strategic defence review , but that should not be an excuse not to commit to increase defence spending . give that the Secretary of State refuse to provide a timetable at last week ' s urgent question , will he now say yes or no to whether the Government will get to 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence spending by the end of this Parliament ? everyone agree that defence spending must rise . under this government , it be increase by nearly £ 3 billion next year , and there be a cast - iron commitment that we will set a clear path to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . of course , the last time this country spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence be in 2010 with a Labour Government . decide to defer or to review be just as much of a decision as one to go ahead or not to go ahead , because it mean that nothing be happen . the Typhoon factory at Warton be currently idle — no Typhoons be be produce — which be bad for export and bad for our defence . can the Secretary of State tell the House when we will take a decision to procure more Typhoons ? there be 25 , 000 job at risk , as well as the country ' s defence . I have have the privilege of visit Warton , and I have see the skill , the technology and the workforce ' s commitment and dedication to that job . the reviewer of the strategic defence review will produce their final report and make recommendation in the spring . in the meantime , my hon . friend rightly point to export . it may interest he to know that , last week , I be in Turkey and Saudi Arabia to discuss with Defence Ministers the future role that UK - make Typhoons could play in the defence of both country . far to the question raise by my hon . friend the Member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) , I welcome the £ 2 . 9 billion of extra defence expenditure from next year . however , not only do we not have a timetable for meeting 2 . 5 % of GDP , which the whole House would like to hear about ; will the Secretary of State confirm that there will be no additional funding for the in - year pressure that this Department , alongside so many other , be suffer from ? the Chancellor set out in her Budget on 30 October the step we be take , across Government , to deal with the £ 22 billion in - year deficit that this Government inherit . on the commitment to 2 . 5 % of GDP , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury have make it clear that we will set that path in the spring . I remind the House that the Prime Minister say at the NATO summit in Washington , back in July , that it be a question of the strategic defence review first , then the commitment and the path to 2 . 5 % . my constituency be home to many small and medium - sized enterprise that contribute to our UK defence sector . what step be the Government take to ensure that submission from sme to the strategic defence review be give equal weighting and consideration compare with submission from prime contractor , in order to support innovation , job creation and competition within the UK defence sector ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the shadow Defence Secretary will recognise the role that small , medium and grow company can play in our defence and security sector well than anyone else in the House . that be one reason why , within day of get this job , I do not just meet the big , lead defence company ; I have a similar meeting and briefing on the approach this Government will take with small and medium - sized company , include grow company , in the defence sector . such company will be an important focus for the strategic defence review , as the reform and the long - term industrial strategy require to deliver strong defence for this country be consider . Armed Forces Recruitment and Retention what step he be take to improve recruitment and retention in the armed force . what step the Government be take to improve recruitment and retention in the armed force . this government have already begin to modernise and refine our policy and process to attract and retain the good possible talent in our armed force . we be deliver for defence , with a 35 % pay increase for new recruit and one of the large pay increase in the last 20 year for exist personnel . we be scrap over 100 outdated medical policy and set an ambition to make a conditional offer of employment to candidate within 10 day and a provisional training start date within 30 day . from cadet to regular and reservist , it be clear that we must urgently tackle the recruitment and retention crisis preside over by the last government . will the Minister join I in welcome the fact that over 700 application be now be reconsider after the removal of unnecessary red tape block some sufferer of hay fever and acne from join ? I be delighted to join my hon . friend in welcome the announcement by the Ministry of Defence that more than 700 application have be reconsider follow the removal of 100 outdated medical policy , such as those block some sufferer of hay fever , eczema and acne . that be a perfect example of how we be fix the foundation and deliver for defence . I welcome the Government ' s commitment in this area . since 1999 , there have be only six year when the regular force have grow in size , and all three armed force be currently below target . do the Minister believe there will be any year between now and 2030 when there will be a net increase in number ? do he have a target for the overall increase in those year ? or be it a bit like 2 . 5 % of gdp , and we will just have to wait and see — " make I good , but not yet " ? I welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s passion for recruitment . the recruitment target be miss in every single year of the last Conservative Government . it will take we time to fix the process , but we have already make announcement about improve retention and recruitment . we will make further such announcement in the month ahead to ensure that we be deal with the gap in our capability and improve morale , and that we have force that be able to deter and defeat aggressor , if necessary . I welcome the shadow Minister to his place . thank you , Mr Speaker — it be nice to be back . on recruitment , many who join the armed force begin their military journey as cadet . the previous Conservative Government ' s cadet expansion programme successfully establish hundred of new cadet unit in state school . however , this Labour Government have recently withdraw a critical £ 1 million - plus grant that support cadet instructor in many of the very same state school . will the Government as a whole urgently review that very unwelcome decision ? I welcome my shadow to his place . the Government be commit to cadet . it be a really valuable pastime for young people , which provide skill and opportunity that will last they a lifetime . the Minister for Veterans and People be review the cadet force to ensure that it can continue to play a really important role for young people and support the overall mission of defence . I welcome the Minister ' s kind welcome . on retention , how can we persuade people to remain in our armed force if they sense that the new Government do not really have their back ? in that context , will the Ministry of Defence start to defend its own veteran within Whitehall , and argue that the perverse plan to repeal the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 should be abandon as soon as possible ? I have such high hope for the right hon . Gentleman as my shadow . let I be very clear : the Government be renew the contract between the nation and those who serve — a contract that have be erode over 14 year , with black mould in military accommodation , fall morale and gap in our capability . we will not only support retention and recruitment , but through the work that the Defence Secretary do in Cabinet and the work of the Minister for Veterans and People , we will support our veteran as well . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I have hear from a number of young people who have try to join the military , only to be meet with long wait for their medical assessment . I understand the need for applicant to be thoroughly assess , but we be lose valuable recruit due to the processing time . many can not afford to wait around and ultimately choose a different path . how be the Minister ensure that the medical assessment process run efficiently ? it be a really important part of the application process that we ensure that the people we accept into our armed force be medically fit . we have already make progress in this area by remove outdated medical process , and we be work with colleague across health to ensure that access to applicant ' medical record be smooth and efficient , reduce the delay between someone say that they want to serve in our armed force and that person get through the door of a training base . there be lot of work to be do , and we hope to make further announcement in due course . UK Role in NATO what plan he have to maintain the UK ' s role in NATO . NATO be the cornerstone of UK and Euro - atlantic security . our commitment to the alliance be unshakable . the strategic defence review will ensure that we have a NATO - first policy at the heart of Britain ' s defence plan for the future . follow the election of President Trump in the United States , there will clearly be much more pressure from the new US Administration on other country in NATO to step up to the mark and put in the resource that they should be put in to safeguard the defence of Europe . what action will the Secretary of State take to show leadership and ensure that other european country step up and keep Europe safe from external threat such as Russia , China and beyond ? our cast - iron commitment to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of GDP will help to set the pace in NATO . I be pleased that , while in 2001 only six NATO nation be meet the pledge level of 2 % , this year 23 nation be do so . the UK commit almost all our armed force and our nuclear deterrent to NATO , so we play a leading role . we will have a NATO - first policy at the heart of our defence plan , and will always look to be first in NATO as part of our leadership role . mindful that tomorrow mark the 1 , 000 - day anniversary of the invasion of Ukraine , and of the increase in russian hostility over the weekend , will my right hon . friend the Secretary of State take this opportunity to assure the House of this Government ' s continue steadfast support for both Ukraine and NATO ? I will indeed . in the four month that this Government have be in office we have step up support for Ukraine and speed up delivery of the military aid promise . this be a Government now spend more on military aid than ever before on behalf of the UK . I pay tribute to the conservative party for the fact that the UK be and remain united for Ukraine . Independent Armed Forces Commissioner what progress he have make on establish an independent armed force commissioner . what progress he have make on establish an independent armed force commissioner . what progress he have make on establish an independent armed force commissioner . what progress he have make on establish an independent armed force commissioner . the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill be a landmark piece of legislation and a major step take by this Government to renew the contract between the nation and those who serve . second reading of the Bill will be later today and the commissioner will be a strong independent champion for our armed force and their family , improve parliamentary oversight and get to grip with the welfare issue face by our armed force . I thank the Minister for all he be do to improve the life of our armed force community . he will be aware of the deeply distressing account of rape and sexual assault from the Defence Committee ' s report on woman in the armed force . will he please revisit our recommendation and those of the Lyons review , so that those serious case can be hear in civilian , not service court ? my hon . friend be exactly right to raise this very serious issue . in opposition we make a commitment that murder , manslaughter and rape case would be try in civilian , rather than military court . I encourage she to keep ask question as we get close to the armed force Bill , which will be an opportunity to put that right . the Listening out Loud Foundation in my constituency be run by Jill and Andy Dolman and work with those who have recently leave the force , often with complex problem such as post - traumatic stress disorder . they can provide an excellent insight into how we can well support current and future armed force personnel . how do the Minister foresee the Armed Forces Commissioner work with small charity such as the Listening out Loud Foundation , and will he join I in visit the organisation in the near future ? I thank my hon . friend for her interest in this area and for champion the work of that organisation in her constituency . as we get to the point of implement the Armed Forces Commissioner , I expect that they will have new relationship with service charity and organisation for serve member of our force and the wide armed force family . I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that , and I look forward to visit her constituency to meet that organisation in person if I can . will the Minister consider that it be right that the Armed Forces Commissioner be able to challenge Ministers , and increase parliamentary oversight of the issue that face our force and their family ? that be a commitment we make in opposition , but it be also a commitment to increase scrutiny that we be proud to make from the Government Dispatch Box . we want to make the case that , to improve morale and to improve the relationship and the contract between the nation and those who serve , have an independent and impartial figure to champion our armed force and their family will improve not only the live experience of those people , but the operational capability of our force , encourage more people to recognise that someone be genuinely listen to their concern and that minister be prepare to act on they as well . there be a lot of work to be do to renew the contract , but the Armed Forces Commissioner be a key first step . last month I visit the Northern Hub for Veterans and Military Families Research at Northumbria University to hear about its suicide prevention work . its research find that many military family bereave by suicide feel helpless and unsupported as the wellbeing of their love one decline . do the Minister agree that the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill be a vital opportunity to deliver well support for family go through difficult time ? any death by suicide be a tragedy , though it remain fortunately a rare event in the armed force community . it be positive to hear of the work by Northumbria University in this area . this month we publish a refresh edition of the armed force suicide prevention strategy and action plan to enhance the MOD ' s commitment to reduce suicide and well support those affect by it . a future independent commissioner will have the discretion to investigate welfare matter affect our force and will be a direct point of contact for bereaved family of our serve personnel , and that would naturally be a matter worthy of their attention . will the Armed Forces Commissioner ' s power of investigation extend to be allow to visit troop deploy on operation , to question they , and to seize document ? the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill include power for the Armed Forces Commissioner to visit serve personnel , and for UK visit to be unannounced . due to the logistic of visit troop abroad , we would expect that such visit would be co - ordinated with the Department . I expect the commissioner to visit our troop serve abroad , and family deploy abroad , and to hear about the particular challenge that be deploy abroad present for those in uniform and those who love they . we have lot of work to do , and I would be grateful if the hon . Gentleman would raise that issue at the Bill ' s Second reading later today , when I can respond in more detail . I thank the Minister for his response to the question . in Northern Ireland recruitment be at record level — there have never need to be conscription because there be always volunteer . ever mindful of that , and of the need to ensure that the independent Armed Forces Commissioner have the same responsibility and power in every place in Northern Ireland , will the Minister please indicate strongly , if he can , that every council will be involve , and every person who need help in Northern Ireland will get it ? the Armed Forces Commissioner will extend to all part of the United Kingdom and cover the service welfare matter of UK armed force personnel and their family , include when deploy abroad . we would expect recommendation to be publish directly to Parliament , not through the Ministry of Defence , to ensure the impartiality and independence of the role , and to allow Members of Parliament from all part of the House to scrutinise recommendation and issue raise by the commissioner . that will include every nation within the United Kingdom . NATO : Missile Defence Co - operation what step he be take with his NATO counterpart to increase co - operation on missile defence . this government be get on with deliver for defence to make Britain secure at home and strong abroad . the UK remain a lead voice in NATO on missile defence , which we see as a cross - government and international effort . we be work to enhance our missile defence capability , and modernise our approach to air and missile defence , both for our own force and with our NATO ally . at last month ' s NATO Ministers of Defence meet the Secretary of State agree to step up co - operation with our NATO ally on missile defence and cutting - edge long - range missile . do the Minister agree that a focus on integrate NATO ' s missile defence be key to strengthen european security ? yes , I do . defence against air and missile threat have play a key role in our recent thinking , and with our NATO - first approach to policy , put integration with our ally at the heart of our defence plan make sense and be a vital part of ensure our security go forward . will the United Kingdom , preferably in tandem with our european colleague but if necessary bilaterally with the United States , align with the United States in permit Ukraine to use the missile defence system that we have supply as it see fit in its own defence ? absolutely . we intend to align with our ally in make sure that Ukraine can make use of the capability that have be offer by those who have commit support to that country in its fight . veteran : Newcastle - under - Lyme what step he be take to support veteran in Newcastle - under - Lyme constituency . this be a Government of service who will always stand up for those who serve our country , and I be steadfast in my commitment to deliver improved service for veteran nationwide , include in Newcastle - under - Lyme . I be work to ensure a dedicated structure and support mechanism for veteran that be more institutionally resilient , through work across Government and with devolved administration . our veteran be on the frontline as they defend our country , and when seek meaningful support to get on with their life when they get home . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to the Tri Services and Veterans Support Centre in Newcastle - under - Lyme , lead by chairman Geoff Harriman , for all the work it do ? will he come to visit the centre , meet our veteran , and show they the support that they deserve ? I would be delighted to accept my hon . friend ' s offer to visit Newcastle - under - Lyme and reopen the tri - service centre . I look forward to meet veteran in the constituency and learn more about the fantastic work they be do . I recently meet Got your six in Wincanton , which provide crucial therapeutic support for veteran and serve personnel . one veteran tell I that its support have be invaluable at a point in his life when he could not see a future . will the Minister join I in congratulate Got your six , and will the Government support such group to expand their crucial work ? I congratulate Got your six and all the charitable sector on the amazing voluntary work that go on across the country . I , too , have see the amazing work that get your Six do and would like to meet its representative in due course if they come down to Westminster . Ukraine what step he have take to increase support for Ukraine . what step he have take to increase support for Ukraine . with tomorrow mark 1 , 000 day since the start of President Putin ' s brutal , illegal invasion of Ukraine , our commitment to stand with the ukrainian people be absolute . we have step up with more military support , we have speed up delivery , and we be now spend more on military aid as a country than ever before . tomorrow will be 1 , 000 day since Putin invade Ukraine . my constituent in Kilmarnock and Loudoun have concern about the ongoing welfare of ukrainian civilian , so can the Secretary of State please assure my constituent that the Government will continue to offer support and aid to those in need ? will he underline our absolute support for Ukraine force to end Putin ' s aggression ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . what she really say be that the Ukrainians have be fight with huge courage — military and civilian alike — and the good way we can help the Ukrainians to defend their own civilian be to step up our support for Ukraine . that be why we have increase military support and aid to its high level ever . we have sign a new industrial treaty with Ukraine worth £ 3 . 5 billion to increase military hardware . we have hit the £ 1 billion milestone for the UK - lead international fund for Ukraine . we will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take . this be a Government deliver for defence and for Ukraine . I thank the Secretary of State for his previous answer . will he outline some of the detail of the support that have be offer to Ukraine and how that support be evolve as the conflict continue ? at each stage , we have try to respond to the requirement that the Ukrainians say that they have to match the state of their battle to defend their country . we have announce package of artillery , of ammunition and of air defence , which be one of their most critical need at present , include recently a new contract to supply short - range air defence missile — the lightweight multi - role missile . those will be in ukrainian hand at the turn of the year . we expect to step up that production and delivery during the course of next year . do the Secretary of State share my concern at the recent medium interview give by a lead candidate to be labour ' s next ambassador to Washington DC ? this supposedly clever negotiator declare that Ukraine should not expect to get its territory back , and should not expect to be put on the path to join NATO , but could perhaps secure some security guarantee from western country . do the Secretary of State agree that whoever be send to Washington should be somebody who support Ukraine in defend itself and do not reward russian aggression with pre - emptive capitulation ? one of the first privilege I have in this new role be to represent the country at the NATO Washington summit . that be the point at which the NATO nation collectively agree to step up support for Ukraine and to develop the security guarantee that Ukraine will need in the long term . the task for we and ally that support Ukraine be to help Ukrainians and support they in their fight now . at the point at which they judge the talking should start , our role then be to give they equally steadfast support , and we will . I be sure the whole House stand solidly with Ukraine on its one thousandth day counter russian aggression and do so for we all , but its ability to do so be weaken by North Korea send armament and manpower , the Iranians send drone , and oil contract still be sign . will the Minister assure we that , in the light of the american decision to allow strike inside Russia , we will also give permission for our missile to be use to break up concentration of arm and material inside Russia ? I will not be draw on detail about long - range missile today — it risk operational security , and the only person who benefit from public debate be President Putin . as the right hon . Member rightly say , 10 , 000 north korean troop be on the frontline in Russia . at the weekend , Russia launch its big aerial attack into Ukraine since August against infrastructure . I speak yesterday to the US Defence Secretary about this escalation . I will speak to the Ukrainian Defence Minister about it later today . I want the House to be in no doubt : the Prime Minister have be clear that we must double down and give Ukraine the support it need for as long as it need . we will continue to work in close co - ordination with the US in our support for Ukraine . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . I ask the Secretary of State last month whether there be an update on the usage of storm Shadow missile by Ukraine . as have be widely report , yesterday President Biden lift restriction on the use of long - range US missile . give the continuous bombing of ukrainian community by Russia , and give that thousand of north korean troop be fight against our ally in our continent , will Ukraine now be allow to use those Storm Shadow missile — obviously , within the confine of international law — or do we expect Ukraine to continue fight and defend itself with one hand tie behind its back while keep those Storm Shadows in safe storage ? I say again that I will not compromise operational security and comment on the detail of long - range system today . the Prime Minister have be clear — as I be be to the House — that we must double down on the support to Ukraine , give it the support it need and do so for as long as it take . in do so , we will continue our close co - operation with the US and ally in provide that support to Ukraine . I join the Chair of the Defence Committee , the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , in strongly welcome the decision by the United States to permit Ukraine to use long - range missile in Kursk . I know the Secretary of State do not want to go into operational detail — I understand that — but I assure he of our support if he follow through in relation to storm Shadow , as we believe he should . there will be those who talk about escalation , but do he agree that the only escalation that matter here be 10 , 000 north korean troop on the ground support Russia in its illegal war ? the shadow Secretary of State be right that the one person responsible for escalation in this conflict be President Putin , and the one side that have be escalate in recent month be Russia . in recognise that he have escalate his illegal war against Ukraine by intensify the use of glide bomb , destroy Ukraine ' s energy infrastructure and deploy thousand of north korean troop into combat position in Kursk , I be discuss this very serious development with the US Defence Secretary and will be discuss it with the Ukrainian Defence Secretary this evening . do the Prime Minister raise Ukraine during his meeting with President Xi give China ' s undoubted influence over Russia and North Korea ? I regard the Prime Minister ' s meeting with President Xi as an important step forward . he be the first Prime Minister of the UK to meet the leader of China in nearly six year . after 14 year of damage conservative inconsistency on China , this Government will bring a long - term approach to manage our relation with China . we will co - operate where we can , compete where we should , and challenge where we must . Cadet Forces what step his Department be take to support the cadet force . I have visit various cadet unit , and I be constantly in awe of their work not only to increase social mobility , but to improve the health and wellbeing of various young people across the country . they produce an annual return on investment in the region of £ 95 million . we be commit to sustain cadet force across the UK , and we continue to invest in cadet expansion in school so that even more young people , particularly in the state sector , can benefit from be in the cadet . I agree wholeheartedly with the Minister about the benefit of the cadet , so why have the Government cut support to cadet , even as they be launch a national youth strategy ? his colleague say early that the Government would have a review . the question be : can that gap in support be plug and the school staff instructor grant be restore so that more child — hopefully , many more child — in state school can benefit from join the cadet ? I be conduct a review into cadet and reserve . the cadet expansion programme will still receive £ 3 . 6 million in Government funding through the Ministry of Defence , and I can reassure the right hon . member that we be fully commit to support the cadet expansion programme . I will speak to he about our review in due course , once it be complete . Nuclear Weapons whether he have have recent discussion with Cabinet colleague on potential risk arise from the use of nuclear weapon . we recognise the serious risk pose by the use of nuclear weapon . it be a labour Prime Minister who sign the non - proliferation treaty in 1968 . the UK remain fully committed to the multilateral non - proliferation aim of a world without nuclear weapon . we also have a triple lock commitment on our nuclear deterrent , which be a vital part of UK defence and deterrence . accord to the Nuclear Information Service , there have be 110 historical incident involve UK nuclear weapon . there have be 25 well - record near miss between the United States and Russia — and , formerly , the Soviet Union . in that context , will the Minister explain why , on 1 November , when the United National General Assembly be invite to vote on establish a panel for a scientific study on the effect of nuclear weapon , Britain , Russia and France be the only three country to vote against its establishment ? fortunately , the committee be establish . will the Minister assure the House that Britain will fully co - operate in examine the devastating effect of nuclear weapon be they ever to be use ? the UK have always recognise the possible humanitarian consequence of the use of nuclear weapon . the propose panel do not establish a clear mandate to address maintain long - hold knowledge of the devastating consequence of nuclear war use scientific research , and the resolution will not advance progress towards nuclear disarmament . that be why we vote against it . the Secretary of State ' s commitment to nuclear testing veteran be well know , but he may be concern by a report in the Daily Mirror today claim that incorrect testimony and incomplete documentation be provide by civil servant and give to judge in the court case bring by the nuclear veteran over decade . will the Secretary of State investigate those claim urgently and report to the House ? I can assure the hon . Lady that my hon . friend the Minister for Veterans and People have meet nuclear test veteran to establish a new relationship to ensure that we have consistent and productive dialogue . I know that he be committed to explore the concern raise about access to medical record , and I be sure that progress will be make in that context . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . this government be deliver for defence . last month , the UK and Germany sign the landmark Trinity House agreement , mark a new era of co - operation between our armed force and our defence industry . with threat increase , we must strengthen european security . tomorrow mark the bloody milestone of 1 , 000 day since Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine begin . the UK continue to be unite for Ukraine , and the Government continue to step up support for Ukraine . as part of that , I can confirm today that 50 , 000 ukrainian troop have now be train through Operation Interflex — the UK - lead multinational training programme — which I have now extend to run throughout 2025 . I welcome that announcement by the Secretary of State . it should shame every politician in this House that today veteran who have serve our country be still sleep rough on our street . can the Secretary of State set out the step he will take to ensure that home will be there for hero ? our first step be to ensure that veteran who face homelessness have a more advantaged place in social housing provision — that be announce by the Prime Minister in his Labour party conference speech and will be follow up by the Deputy Prime Minister in change to the arrangement for local authority guidance . on the eve of Remembrance weekend , we also make a pledge of £ 3 . 5 million to help homeless veteran . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in relation to the cost of rent back our own military base on the Chagos island , last week the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , say that the reason the Government refuse to tell we what the cost will be be that " it be not normal practice for the UK to reveal the value of payment for military basis anywhere across the globe " . — [ Official Report , 13 November 2024 ; Vol . 756 , c . 793 . ] be that correct ? that be correct , but it be also true to say that the treaty be in the legal and national security interest of the UK and US . that be why the US Defence Secretary welcome the agreement , which he say would " safeguard the strategic security interest of the United Kingdom … and the United States … into the next century " . the Secretary of State say it be true that it be not normal practice for the UK to reveal the value of payment for military basis , but there have actually be several write answer , under this Government and previous one , give the cost of overseas basis . for example , in November 2015 the then Minister for the Armed Forces — Penny Mordaunt , no less — reveal in a write answer the cost of 10 overseas basis , include Diego Garcia and the cost of lease . the reason for withhold the cost do not stack up . what do the Secretary of State have to hide from Parliament ? absolutely nothing , nor will we . it be a matter of course to confirm run cost for basis . what we be talk about here be an agreement lead to a treaty that will be put before this House . I have say to the House and to the shadow Secretary of State that we will set out the cost and the detail of that treaty in due course when the House come to consider it . in Doncaster , we be proud to have an armed force covenant co - ordinator , the fantastic Teresa Hodgson , and a Doncaster armed force covenant board , which be a coalition of group and organisation commit to support the armed force community in Doncaster . will the Minister visit my constituency to speak to the board and discuss the action that the Government be take to support veteran face homelessness ? I would love to come and visit my hon . friend ' s constituency to talk through that and reaffirm that the covenant will go into law in the next two to three year . that work be progress as I speak . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . tomorrow mark 1 , 000 day since the illegal invasion of Ukraine . with the incoming White House Administration cast doubt on continue US support for Ukraine , I echo the call hear across the House today urge the Minister to confirm that the Government plan to authorise the use of storm Shadow missile in Russia . I urge the hon . Lady to look back in the record at the answer that I have give two or three time already to this House . I thank the Secretary of State for Defence for his decisive action to safeguard the octric semiconductor factory in Newton Aycliffe in my constituency , protect job and , crucially , the sovereign supply of this vital defence component . will my right hon . friend meet with I to discuss how we can expand the job , apprenticeship and opportunity at this fantastic high - tech facility ? the MOD will continue to invest in the company ' s people to ensure that the facility have a sustainable future . octric ' s leadership team be currently finalise its future resource plan , which will cover the need for new high - tech role such as engineer and scientist to ensure that the facility be well place to develop new technology and meet defence need . I be more than happy to meet my hon . friend about that . I be so pleased to go to his Majesty ' s Lord Lieutenant of Kent ' s cadet award recently to hear about the fantastic work of our local cadet force . what might the Secretary of State have to say to the brilliant young people I see there to justify the recent decision to cut funding for state school cadet ? I will not comment on other part of the Government ' s funding priority ; what I would suggest be that the MOD absolutely support the cadet force . we have over 140 , 000 cadet and 26 , 000 adult volunteer , and we will review the cadet process and make sure it be fit for purpose as we move forward . the military housing this Government inherit for family at RAF Northolt in my constituency simply be not good enough . can the Minister set out how the improvement recommend in the Kerslake review will be implement , so that the military family I represent and serve will finally get the decent housing they deserve ? I thank my hon . friend for his really important question . for the past 14 year , we have kick the can down the road on housing , and I will take it upon myself to put in place a medium and long - term plan that will solve those housing problem as we move forward . there be over 47 , 000 MOD property , and we will make sure people get the deal they deserve . could I ask for a progress update on the recruitment for a national armament director , the creation of a military strategic headquarters , and the release of the defence industrial strategy , and crucially , will they all be in place and establish in time to contribute to the recommendation of the strategic defence review ? I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his position as parliamentary private secretary to the shadow Defence team — it be good to see he ask question . the short answer be yes . as we meet today , EU Foreign Ministers be reportedly discuss that chinese manufacturing be now provide drone to the russian war machine , specifically drone make in Xinjiang . do that not far the need for Europe to deepen its own defence industrial base , and specifically , should we be secure an administrative arrangement with the European Defence Agency to that end ? it be certainly true that we need to rebuild relation with important european ally , and that we need to do more collaboratively on big programme . that be at the heart of the UK - german defence agreement that we have already sign as a new government . we have also say that we will set out to strike a UK - EU security agreement , and aspect of that may be relevant . many veteran who I have speak to recently be deeply concerned about the Government ' s decision to remove the role of Veterans Minister from Cabinet . will the Secretary of State explain how he will ensure veteran get the attention from Government that they rightly deserve ? veteran have a fully fledge Cabinet Minister speak up for they . I be proud to do so as the Secretary of State for Defence . group such as Light Project Peterborough do vital work to support homeless veteran , but as we know , demand have rise in recent year . will the Minister welcome and congratulate group such as Light Project and outline what step he be take to ensure support for veteran face homelessness this winter ? absolutely , and I congratulate Light Project on its work . Op Fortitude have also refer over 2 , 000 veteran , and have already put 800 into housing . the Secretary of State say a moment ago that the UK be work on a potential UK - EU security agreement . might that include involvement in the European Peace Facility , which procure ammunition jointly ? discussion be at an early stage . at present , I be more concerned about the action we can take immediately , which be why I have give my first priority to building relation with key european ally . when I can , I will consolidate those relation in formal agreement , which we already have with Germany . as the MP for Sandhurst as well as Bracknell , I be delighted that the first intake of recruit to the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst since the general election have hit 101 % of its target , despite the wide retention and recruitment crisis . will the Minister join I in welcome all the 2024 recruit to my constituency ? I congratulate all those start their military career at Sandhurst and across our defence training estate . a career in the armed force be a good career that support our national defence , and I encourage more people to look at a good career in the armed force — whether join for the first time or rejoin . I call the Father of the House . as the Government have announce this month that they be put RAF Scampton back on the market and the luckless Home Office be now — thank God — out of the picture , the excellent MOD and this brilliant cast of Ministers be now very much in the picture . may I have an assurance today that they will work closely with West Lindsey to further our exciting plan to promote defence industry on this historic site and keep the runway open ? I will be pleased to meet the Father of the House and look at those plan . I think it be my sister who make that decision in the Home Office — [ Laughter . ] I serve in Germany for two year as part of NATO ' s very high readiness joint task force , and I welcome the improved co - operation with that nation . I also see at first hand the importance of our relationship with Poland . can the Secretary of State tell I what we be do to improve co - operation with that nation ? I can indeed . Poland be one of the first country that I visit as the new Defence Secretary . I be keen to establish a good relationship with my polish counterpart and have do so . there be a good deal that we will do in future and be already do , both military to military and with our defence industry . on Friday , the UK Defence Journal report on the activity of the russian research and intelligence vessel Yantar in the Irish sea , in the vicinity of various cable . this be not new ; we have the same thing last year in the North sea and off Shetland . give the sheer quantity of cable and pipeline now in the seabed , what be the Government do to ensure that that critical national infrastructure be properly protect ? let the House be in no doubt that the United Kingdom and our armed force will defend our critical national infrastructure undersea cable . we have a strategy and armed force protect our cable , and we be work with our ally to do so . I suspect that that will also feature as a recommendation in the strategic defence review when it be publish next year . with our domestic air defence under increase scrutiny , will the Secretary of State update we on the work be do to strengthen they and give assurance that our Government understand that our force will need the resource available to secure our sky ? this be one of the area that the strategic defence review be look at closely : it have set up 26 review and challenge panel and be draw in almost 150 external expert from the whole range of defence . with rise threat at this point , this be part of the long , hard look we have to take at the capability we need in order to keep Britain safe in future and to be strong abroad . the Secretary of State speak to a UK commitment to " NATO first " , and that be great , but we have just see the election of a US President who be put America first and the defence of Europe in the hand of european state , which make the prevarication over 2 . 5 % all the more difficult . will he accept that a commitment without a date be watery and that only a date will provide a commitment ? will it be in this Parliament — yes or no ? I do not accept that for a moment . it be a commitment and a level of defence spending that we have not see for 15 year . as far as the new President go , it be early day — he have only just be elect — and we will ensure that as a Government and as a country we work closely with he and with the US . as world leader meet this week at the G20 in Brazil , what step be the Defence Secretary take with his international counterpart — other Defence Secretaries at the G20 , in particular — about the urgent situation in Gaza , particularly for civilian and child ? my hon . friend be right . for nearly nine month — in opposition and now in government — we have be call for and work for a ceasefire in Gaza to get all hostage release and , importantly , to flood the area with the aid that the Palestinians so desperately need . that have to be the first step towards a political solution that can see a palestinian state and security both for Israel and for the Palestinians in future . in the UK we have some very special skill when it come to develop future defence equipment . to lose those skill would be a desperate business . do the Secretary of State agree that co - operate and work with our friend in Europe be one way to preserve they ? the hon . Gentleman be correct . there be increase example of industry work across our european nation , both in the EU with our improve relationship on defence and in NATO . that be one way in which we can ensure that the skill be available to make the equipment that we need . due to a lack of funding , many reservist in my constituency be not get the training day they need and be therefore not receive the salary that they have anticipate . that mean that many highly train and committed reservist have no choice but to leave and join another career . will the Minister outline what the Labour Government will do to support our reservist , include those who live in my constituency , all of whom be a vital part of our armed force ? as an individual who sign up in just the past two week to be a reserve , this matter be close to my heart . we be do a review into reservist over the next couple of week , which will be link to the strategic defence review , to find out how we can simplify the process and make it easy for people to join and serve the armed force in a way that be befit to they . labour ' s manifesto make it clear that it be commit to scrap visa fee for non - UK veteran who have serve this country for four or more year , as well as their dependant — a pledge I wholeheartedly support and have campaign on . the Veterans Minister previously state that the MOD have start to work with the Home Office , so what be the timetable for deliver that manifesto pledge ? we be work on that . it be in the manifesto , and it will come out in due course . we be delighted to host the Veterans Minister in Telford recently . in a survey of the veteran community in Telford , access to healthcare be the top priority . what work be the Department do with health minister to improve access for veteran to healthcare , in particular mental health care ? I thank my hon . friend for host that visit . the two key programme be Op Courage , which have have 30 , 000 referral already , and Op Restore , to help veteran with muscular and skeletal problem . I point any veteran to the gov . uk page that describe all the support that they can get via the NHS and other . small and medium - sized enterprise in my constituency tell I that research and development funding have dry up since last December . what hope can the Minister offer to ensure that sme continue their vital innovation to keep the UK safe , and to help they turn their sword into ploughshare ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the importance of sme in improve our industrial base and bring agility and new idea to our defence industrial production . he can be assure that there will be SME involvement in our industrial strategy to the extent that it be possible . we intend to make sure that sme , not just the prime , get a well in at the MOD and be able to get the work . will the Minister join I in congratulate the Royal British Legion for another highly successful poppy appeal , and the Redditch and Astwood Bank Royal British Legion for another record - break year ? I completely concur . I be sure the whole House will agree that the Royal British Legion do a fantastic job in this year ' s remembrance parade . I have the privilege of marching with the veteran for the first time since I leave the armed force . it be a fantastic show of respect to all those who have serve . between 1978 and 1990 , in what be an illegal act , 5 , 700 woman be dismiss and discharge from the armed force on family ground — for fall pregnant while in service . this be not a question of compensation ; they want their beret and cap badge return to they . will the Minister please work with I to right an injustice do to all those woman who just want to keep serve their country , and now want that service recognise ? that be a really important question . we have the utmost respect for all those who have serve . I would be delighted to work with the hon . Lady to move that forward . child ' s Social Care with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement about the Government ' s plan for child ' s social care . I know all member here today will agree that care for vulnerable child be among the most vital responsibility of any Government . this Government treat no issue with more importance than the urgent challenge of improve child ' s social care . this be a new era of child - centre government , of put child first . that be how we achieve our opportunity mission , how we break the unfair link between background and success , and how we support family to achieve and thrive . our mission apply to all child , especially the most vulnerable , those for whom childhood be a storm of instability , neglect and even violence — deny the foundation of love that be the first right of any child . child ' s social care alone can not right all those wrong . we need a join - up approach , across Government and beyond . that be why mission - lead government be so important . but do well , child ' s social care empower family to support their child , put they back on the path to happy , healthy life . it be with great concern that I come here today to tell Members what they must already know : the system that the Government have inherit from Opposition Members be break and fail far too many child . it be keep alive by the effort of our amazing workforce . I want to thank all those work so hard to keep child safe , but child ' s social care be struggle under an impossible weight . we have more child in care in this country than ever before . with more and more money follow child into the most expensive part of the system , resource be suck out of preventive service , push yet more young people into care . and so the vicious cycle continue : high cost but poor outcome . my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) rightly identify that cycle in his review over two year ago : a broken market for care , vulnerable to the shameful profiteering of too many private company . local government spending on child ' s social care have rise by £ 4 . 4 billion over the last decade . what do we have to show for it ? a system too busy treat symptom to tackle cause , a system that cost more for taxpayer but deliver less for family , and a system that be fail our child and which be cry out for change . today , the Labour Government begin that change : ambitious , wide - range reform to lift the life chance of our most vulnerable child . I be pleased to announce the publication of a policy statement that put child ' s social care back in the service of child and family , break the cycle of crisis intervention . this be the big reform of child ' s social care in a generation . it start with the acknowledgement that , wherever possible , child should remain with their family . that be where child belong . it be on that foundation of family love that child can live happy life . that be why early intervention , tackle problem before they escalate , hold the key to bright future for our child . we will simplify the way we fund local government next year , consolidate more than £ 400 million of child ' s social care funding within the local government finance settlement . with immediate effect , we will suspend the payment by result aspect of the support family funding . we will renew the way we work with the sector , co - design service together to meet the need of child and family in their community . the Deputy Prime Minister and I be ambitious about reform how we work with child and family , from when they encounter challenge right through to building solution . we will set out funding plan for child ' s social care , and future investment in preventive service , in the upcoming local government finance settlement . all family face challenge at one time or another . I want to help they to come up with their own solution , wherever possible , so we will legislate to embed family group decision - making as an offer all family can access . early targeted support minimise more costly and disruptive intervention later , so it be much well value for taxpayer . but ultimately , that be not the point . the most important point be that it be well for child ' s live now and in the future , build that bedrock of family love and support that we all need . we know that we must also have strong child protection measure in place , so today I be set out plan to require every council to have multi - agency child safeguarding team , consult school and teacher to stop child fall through the crack . sometimes , despite the good effort of all involve , child can not remain at home , and our priority then be to support they to live with kinship carer or in foster family , connect to extend family in a stable home . that be why I be not just pleased but deeply proud when the Government announce the large ever national investment in kinship care at last month ' s Budget — an investment in the future of vulnerable child . that money will trial a new kinship allowance to help family member and friend to care for vulnerable child . we will also extend the " virtual school head " programme , place it on a statutory footing and champion the education of child in kinship care . even with these change , however , there will remain instance in which child must enter the care system , so it be vital that we fix the break care market . we know that the quality and safety of child ' s home in England be simply not good enough . year after year , the previous Government sit on their hand while child be let down — their life chance wreck , their hope dash , and their dignity ignore . I know that many Opposition Members share the disappointment I feel as Ministers in that Government ignore these issue and leave they to drift , when they could have grip they as this government do today . we will act decisively , help child to remain close to the people who love they whenever possible , and end the reckless profiteering of some provider . we will rebalance and stabilise the placement market , include by establish a financial oversight scheme for the very first time . we will make the market more transparent , and we will empower local authority to collaborate on placement , include through regional care co - operative . we will give Ofsted the power to move more quickly against unregistered care provider and tackle pattern of poor care . those be action to fix the care market , but member should be in no doubt that if company continue to make extreme profit at the cost of vulnerable child , I will go far and hard . we will introduce new power allow the Government to directly cap the level of profit from child ' s social care placement . at their good , private provider can help improve the life of vulnerable child , but when the focus drift towards exploitation in the pursuit of profit , be in no doubt that I will act . these be the reform to deliver the good placement for child , but the journey do not end there . we must give young people leave care the right support as they make the transition to adult life . I be pleased to co - chair the ministerial care leaver board alongside the Deputy Prime Minister early this month . we will drive forward action across Government , and we will expand the stay close programme into a national entitlement of enhance practical and emotional support for care leaver . it be time to fix the foundation of child ' s social care , invest in the groundwork for a strong sector , and that include datum . we will deliver on our manifesto commitment to improve the sharing of information for the benefit of all child , include those in care . we will change the law in two way . first , we will introduce provision for a " single unique child identifier " to join up datum from different service , which be a further step towards ensure that service work hard for child , parent and professional . secondly , we will establish a new duty , provide a clear legal basis for those work with child to share information for the purpose of safeguarding . we be determined to ensure that child ' s social care be an excellent area in which to work . we have publish online resource to improve the health and wellbeing of staff , and we be join the national workload action group to cut unnecessary task , free up staff to concentrate on child and their family . while agency worker can help to manage fluctuation in demand , they be no substitute for a permanent workforce . child and family deserve stable professional relationship . we will therefore limit the use of agency social worker by local authority , act to reverse the alarming increase in their prevalence . every child deserve the good possible start in life , to grow up in a family fill with love , but not every child have that . there be still far too many who lack the stability , safety and love that they need to go on to happy and healthy life . our opportunity mission be for they , we be break down barrier for they , and the announcement that I have bring to the House today be for they — but we can not achieve this alone . keep child safe be everyone ' s business — not merely mine or the Government ' s , but that of each of we in this House and all of we across the country . we need partnership with family , the workforce , carer , provider , health , police , school , college — and , yes , with member right across the House . today be the start of much - need change — change that will fix child ' s social care ; change that will keep family together where possible and child safe where necessary ; change that will give each and every child the good start in life . the child of our great country deserve nothing less . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . I welcome the Government ' s focus today on child ' s social care , and on the profiteer issue that we identify and set up the market intervention advisory group to look at when we be in government . however , at the heart of the problem be a lack of high - quality place for look - after child . that be what be cause the high cost of placement , as demand be outstrip supply . in its 2022 report , the Competition and Markets Authority do not recommend a profit cap , because " the central problem face the market … be … lack of … capacity . " the CMA conclude that take measure to limit the profitability of provider would " risk increase the capacity shortfall . " while I share the Secretary of State ' s desire to ensure that we be get good value for the taxpayer in this sector , we need to solve the capacity issue first ; otherwise , ironically , she risk drive up price and exacerbate the shortage of place . the last Government take step at the Budget in April to address the capacity side , with £ 165 million allocate for build and maintain placement for look - after child . I note that in the most recent Budget , despite the welcome money for kinship care , there be no more money for increase the number of place for look - after child . that be essential ; otherwise , the strategy on place set out today simply will not work . what plan have the Secretary of State make to increase the number of place for look - after child ? how much she will need to fund that ? do she ask the Treasury for the money at the most recent Budget ? what be her assessment of the impact of the change announce today on the number of place available for look - after child ? the review carry out by the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , commission by the Conservatives in government , find that profit cap would not work as it would be " relatively easy for provider to reallocate income and expenditure to maintain profit level . " do the Secretary of State agree ? be the 8 . 8 % level of profit that she refer to this morning the maximum level of profit that she be aim for ? if not , what will it be ? the capacity problem rest both on the availability of place and on the demand for those place . the Secretary of State have indicate that she would like to take step on early intervention , which be obviously vital . those be not specify in her statement , but I hope that she will bring they to the House at the early opportunity , as they be critical to solve the issue . she say that she want to scrap payment by result . give that that be an early intervention programme , on the basis of what evidence be she do so ? do she have an evaluation of what scrap payment by result will do ? we welcome much else in the statement , include the regional care co - operative , multi - agency team , and the enhanced role of Ofsted in the sector . on the latter , be the Secretary of State make any change to the failure regime for child ' s home and the regularity of inspection ? the Children ' s Commissioner have do outstanding work on the increase use of deprivation of liberty order . will the Secretary of State outline what action she be take on that important issue ? I be pleased to see the Labour Government take forward our proposal for a unique child identifier . when can we expect the Bill create that to be introduce ? I want the Government to succeed in this area . child ' s social care be a hidden issue , and get it right be at the heart of solve so many problem that this country face . I hope the Secretary of State can reassure I and the House that she will do more to bring forward a great supply of place for look - after child , and that an early intervention system be forthcoming , because the future of look - after child rely on it . I can say to the right hon . Lady that we will absolutely do more . we be do more in four month than the Conservatives do in 14 year . they have 14 year , yet she have the temerity to stand there and carp about the change that we be bring in for some of the most vulnerable child in our country . market be leave to fail , cost be leave to soar and , bad of all , child be fail . we will ensure that there be high quality placement for our child who need that provision . that be why we set out £ 90 million to expand capacity and provision for child who need it . we have to break this cycle of crisis intervention that be lead to spiral cost and poor outcome and bankrupt local council . that be why we will have much more of a focus on kinship care , foster care and early intervention to support family . I know that where family be support at the early possible moment , we can often prevent problem from escalate , and the right hon . Lady will know that , too . I be determined that we build a system that give all our child the good possible start in life , and that be why I can confirm that we will give Ofsted the power that it need to tackle unregistered and illegal provision and to ensure that it be look at pattern across provider . we will introduce legislation on everything we have set out today as soon as parliamentary time allow , but I can say to she that this be urgent and we will act as swiftly as we can . on the right hon . Lady ' s question about the Children ' s Commissioner , I welcome the work of the commissioner in this important area . as on many other issue , she have cast a light on an important area of policy where we have not act swiftly and her party fail to act . I would gently point out to she that the Children ' s Commissioner carry out that work on behalf of the Department for Education . the Conservatives have 14 year to tackle these issue . I note that the right hon . Lady welcome some of the measure that we have set out today , but when we set out legislation before this House to tackle the shameful failure that we have inherit , I hope that Conservative Members will back we and , more importantly , back the vulnerable child in our country . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I welcome the action that the Government have announce today to improve child ' s social care . the Secretary of State will know that family from the poor neighbourhood be 14 time more likely to be refer to child ' s social care than those from the rich area , and that there be a grow body of evidence link child poverty to the rise in child enter the care system . how will she ensure that the upcoming child poverty strategy deliver more stability and safety for child and ensure that few family enter the kind of crisis that result in their child be remove from their care ? my hon . friend have long champion this cause and bring considerable expertise to the role that she now undertake as Chair of the Select Committee . I look forward to discuss these issue with she and her Committee in due course . she be right to identify that child poverty be a significant issue in this area . that be why we get the work of the child poverty taskforce under way in August ; we know that that work be crucial . what she have set out today be something that I have hear from parent the length and breadth of the country as part of the work that we be undertake . it be important that , alongside tackle child poverty , we ensure that all family have early support and early intervention to ensure that they can thrive , and that , as she say , problem do not escalate in the way that they currently do . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the review of child ' s social care carry out by the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) in 2022 find that , without reform , there could be almost 100 , 000 child in care by 2032 , cost an extra £ 5 billion a year , so it be essential that we recognise the scale and urgency of this crisis and move quickly , unlike the previous Conservative Government . today ' s announcement be therefore a welcome step forward . tackle profiteer will help not only to address the financial crisis face council , but to deliver well outcome for our most vulnerable child and young people . these be child for whom we in this place all bear a huge responsibility , and it be simply unacceptable that they have become a cash cow for private equity company rake in profit of 28 % or more , so could the Secretary of State spell out when we will see these reform implement , and when she anticipate the backstop take effect ? crack down on profiteer be only one side of the bargain . to put provision on a stable and sustainable footing , we must also ensure that council can provide these service themselves , where necessary , so will the Government work to support local authority in run child ' s home , where they want to do so and where there be need ? many of these private equity firm be also profiteer from special school , and we be start to see they in the early year sector , too . be the Secretary of State look at those area , and will she apply some of today ' s announcement to they ? a new focus on family care be very welcome , as early support for family can keep child out of care who do not need to be there . kinship carer be unsung hero who often step up at a moment ' s notice to look after family member . will the Secretary of State please commit to move beyond the very limited pilot that have be propose , to a universal allowance for kinship carer , on a par with that receive by foster carer ? will she also take the opportunity offer by the Employment Rights Bill , which be currently before the House , to legislate for pay employment leave for kinship carer ? all the evidence point to that lead to well outcome — and it would achieve cost saving immediately , not just in the long term . the hon . Lady have rightly champion the cause of kinship carer for many year in this House , and I pay tribute to she for draw attention to this crucial area . the measure we set out in the Budget represent the single big investment in kinship care ever make by a Government . this be an important first step , but it be not the only action we need to take in this area . I will , of course , work with she and with member on both side of the House to make sure that kinship carer have all the support they need . the hon . Lady be right that , in this House , we all bear a responsibility to represent the need of vulnerable child , whose voice be often not hear in our deliberation . we will seek to bring forward measure as soon as parliamentary time allow , because we know that the crisis we face be urgent . yes , we will work with council on the service they can provide , either directly or by work with charity and other . I have see great example across the country of that already happen . council need the Government to give they further backing to do this on a big scale , and the plan we be set out today will provide for precisely that . today , I be call time on excessive profiteering , and if provider do not respond , we will not hesitate to bring forward measure to cap their profit . we be look very closely at special school , too . I welcome this statement , which those of we with care experience , and those of we who have work in this area , have want to see for year . do my right hon . friend agree that it be entirely regrettable that the work of my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) be commission by the previous Government and then leave on a shelf to gather dust ? will she reassure everyone work in this area that , under this Labour Government , every penny will go towards help young people to thrive , not merely survive , rather than line the pocket of profiteer ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who have consistently share his personal experience , and who have demonstrate to so many young people what can be achieve , even when there be barrier to overcome . he know as well as I do that far too many care - experienced young people in our country lack the support and backing that they deserve , and we be determined to change that . he be also right to point to the excellent work of my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) . I be delighted to have be able to set out many development arise from that crucial work . there be so much more that we need to do together to put the right and need of vulnerable child at the heart of our policymaking . I call Graham Stuart . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . [ interruption . ] I do not mean to knock you down a peg , Mr Speaker ; that would be very unwise . I regret the Secretary of State ' s tone in response to the shadow Secretary of State , and I hope that , over time , she learn not to adopt that tone on issue such as this . the shadow Secretary of State note that there be a capacity crisis , and the Secretary of State have say that we need great early intervention now . be the Secretary of State confident that she have the resource to support local authority and other in tackle this twin challenge ? both part need to be tackle at the same time , which be a truly serious undertaking . I be not quite sure how to begin to respond to the frankly extraordinary first part of the right hon . Gentleman ' s question . to take the more serious point he raise , we be determined to ensure that we have the resource and support in place for the most vulnerable child in our country . the reason I get so cross when I hear some of the contribution make by Conservative Members be that during my time as shadow Secretary of State and Secretary of State , I have hear directly from far too many child who have be badly fail by this system . it be shocking and shameful , and we will change it . year of inaction by previous conservative Governments have lead to vulnerable child feel forgotten and council be financially crippled . how will my right hon . friend ensure that reform truly prioritise child ' s wellbee and tackle profiteer at their expense ? my hon . friend bring real expertise to this House from her work in education . education be also a crucial area where we need to work together on safeguarding ; school staff , teacher and other have a role to play in keep child safe and ensure that all child can thrive . the step that we be set out today will make a big change to the life chance and wellbee of many child across our country , and I be grateful for her support for that important work . for far too long , child ' s service have be a Cinderella department . I be delighted that the Secretary of State be shine a light on they and drive a positive way forward for they . we need to ensure that our community be kinship and foster care - friendly . how will the Secretary of State drive that agenda ? I agree that there be still much more that we need to do to support kinship carer and foster family ; that be why the measure we set out in the Budget be so important . from speak to kinship carer in my constituency on Friday , I know that there be still too many barrier in place , include difference between local authority , issue around access to mental health support , and the need to do more to support kinship carer in balance work and caring responsibility . I look forward to work with the hon . gentleman on those important area . the almost 600 kinship carer in Portsmouth North welcome this Government ' s prioritisation of kinship care ; it be vital to keep kid with their family . however , not all child can live with their family , so some live in the care system . because of the past 14 year of Conservative Government , life have be too tough , so will the Secretary of State tell we a little more about what this Government will do to support those care leaver ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the fact that , sadly , a move to a different kind of placement , outside family care , be a necessary step for some child , for their safety and wellbeing , and in the interest of their long - term future . we be roll out the stay close programme nationally to ensure that all care leaver get the support they deserve . we be also set out plan around corporate parenting , to ensure that all of we fulfil our responsibility to the child for whom we be responsible . I be delighted to chair , with the Deputy Prime Minister , the care leaver ministerial board , because there be more that all of we , across Government , need to do to ensure that care - experienced young people have their voice hear , and to ensure that we take action to address their concern . five year ago , Bath and North East Somerset council ' s budget for child ' s service be £ 28 million ; this year , it be predict to be £ 40 million . transport cost , particularly , be spiral out of control , as private provider seem to deliberately place young people out of area . what my council need , apart from potential price control , be capital investment , so that it can rebuild its in - house service . will the Minister commit to that ? I agree that cost be spiral out of control . More action be necessary to support council in invest in service and ensure provision for child much close to home . too many child be be send far away from family support network . that present local council with additional cost pressure , and push many to the point of bankruptcy , as well as deny child the life chance they deserve . the Secretary of State will be aware that local authority have a legal duty to house unintentionally homeless people , include those in priority need , such as 18 to 19 - year - old care leaver and people with dependent child . at the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , we hear that , shockingly , over 150 , 000 child be in temporary accommodation in England . do the Secretary of State agree that without urgent action on the housing crisis , we will not see improvement for care - leave child ? I agree , and the Deputy Prime Minister be determined to drive forward change in this area , not just with more home be build across our country , include social home , but by take action in the area that my hon . friend describe , when child be leave the care system . I assure she that the Government will act in those area . I warmly welcome today ' s statement . the Secretary of State be right that it be long overdue , and that early intervention be key . too many child in this country be in care because they and their family do not get the support and help that they need , when they need it . she reference the report lead by the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , which state that we need a revolution in family help , and specifically a £ 2 . 6 billion temporary injection of financial support to make the shift to prevention . can she make that commitment ? I be sure that my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington will speak for himself on his report . the Government recognise the need to rebalance the system away from crisis intervention , and to break the cycle of spend ever more pot of money on what amount to a failure within our system . we will refocus our work on early support for family , and ensure that there be more support for kinship and foster family . that be important , not just give the cost of the increase number of intervention ; most crucially , it be how we will deliver well life chance for the most vulnerable child in our country . have grow up in a kinship care setting , with my grandparent , I heartily welcome the content of the Command Paper . have its provision be available to my grandparent , I would have have a very different experience grow up , so I greatly welcome what the Secretary of State be do ; however , for those young people who have to enter the care system , it can not be a one - way process ; age out can not be the only exit . will she set out a little more on what the paper will do to help with reunification , so that young people who go into care can go back to their parent ? I encourage she to look at the work of Pause , a national charity that be do so much work with the birth parent of child who get take into care , so that they get the help and support that they need after what can be a very traumatic experience . I thank my hon . friend for speak about his experience . he will know that until quite recently this area be perhaps little understand . it be so important that people like he be able to speak openly ; it demonstrate bravery and will encourage other to do the same . I will happily look at the report and the work that he mention , and ensure that route back into family care , for those child for whom that be possible , be consider in our ongoing work . in the London borough of Sutton , we start to in - house some child ' s care home provision back in 2020 , and we now care for six child with complex need . what assessment have the Department make of the potential scale of local authority take on service directly , if give the right support by the Government ? like the hon . Gentleman , I have see good example of council across the country that have start to take such action , but they have do so by go against the grain of Government policy . this time , council will have the backing of the Government in make those change . we will also ensure that they can take action on a regional basis , work together and collaborate , so that they can manage placement more effectively . that way , we will not just bring down cost to the taxpayer , which be spiral out of control , but ensure that child can stay close to family support network , which be crucial to their long - term future . have spend 14 year watch child ' s service struggle in the way the Secretary of State outline , with serious case review often be the moment of intervention , I heartily welcome the emphasis on early intervention , and what she say about the responsibility that we all have . she will know that there have be much discussion about the concept of corporate parenting . what be her think on that , and what role do she see for we as Members of Parliament ? at the moment , relationship across the country be clearly too inconsistent . that be to the detriment of safeguarding , and indeed of our young people . my hon . friend be right that there be many long - stand challenge in this area . on corporate parenting , today ' s Command Paper set out the step that we intend to take to bring forward further plan in this area . I look forward to work with she on the shape and scale of those plan , because it be essential that we all take our responsibility incredibly seriously , as I know she do . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s broad commitment to reduce the number of child who need to go into care . build on the comment of the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , I want to emphasise the work that Pause do with West Sussex county council and 24 other authority . pause have a vision of ensure that no one go through have a child take into care more than once . however , more than half of area have no support available for parent after a child be remove from their care , which lead to many be trap in a cycle of pregnancy , care proceeding and repeat removal . what assurance can the Secretary of State give that this valuable work will be more widely roll out across the country , and will she meet I and pause to discuss how that work can be take forward ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady , and I be sure that the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) would be happy to meet she to discuss the issue far . she be right to identify the need for ongoing support for family when a child or child have be remove . before come to this House , I work with many family who be in that situation . I see directly not just how much of a difference could be make to the life of those child and family , but how , when mother be go through subsequent pregnancy , that intervention and support could often be crucial in make sure that the child be able to stay with the mother . that be sadly not always possible , but much more can be achieve with the right level of support . I certainly see some amazing example where it be possible to break what have sadly feel like a cycle . I thank all those work so hard to support vulnerable child in our country , and I thank the Secretary of State for her statement today and some excellent step forward . may I ask she for a little more clarity on the important point she make about the need for great co - production with charity and other agency ? as we take forward further proposal both for legislation and for wide change and reform across the sector , we look forward to work not only with family right organisation , charity and other to make sure that they be involve in the design of service , but with our brilliant and often unsung workforce — as my hon . friend identify — who often do their work behind the scene and without the recognition they deserve . our social work workforce and other play a crucial role , and we be determined to do more to support they in their vital endeavour . I warmly welcome today ' s statement from the Secretary of State . as a county councillor in Oxfordshire , the number of child in our care who be live in unregistered child ' s home be of grave concern to I . those home be often overpriced and always suboptimal for vulnerable child , as well as be strictly illegal . I hear what the Secretary of State have to say about the local authority settlement next month . will she undertake to work with the Deputy Prime Minister and the Chancellor to allocate some of the capital investment announce in the Budget , so that local authority can open new register child ' s home and provide safe and more affordable accommodation close to home for vulnerable young people ? I agree , and I will be work very closely with the Chancellor and the Deputy Prime Minister in this area . the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the increase in unsafe unregistered placement . that be why we be give ofsted further power to act and why I set out in the Command Paper that we will make sure that council and other have the power they need to deliver more placement for child . I encourage he to look closely at that work ; I think he will find much that he can welcome in it . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s considerate focus . child in care have die in unregulated accommodation , but that do not stop the last Conservative Government introduce cruel legislation to make it permissible for council to place child in care age 16 and above into such accommodation — tent , caravans , bed and breakfast and house in multiple occupation , surround by adult stranger and with no continue care at all . please will she overturn that legislation ? I know that my hon . friend , from her professional expertise before come to this House , understand well than most how important social work , early intervention and support for family be in this area . she be right to identify that we see an increase number of child in unsafe and unregistered placement . they be illegal to run , but Ofsted find 887 unregistered home , up from 370 in 2022 - 23 . we will give Ofsted the power it need to tackle unregistered provision . we need to hit provider who be behave in this way where it hurt , as the threat of prosecution clearly be not work . Somerset council be face a £ 7 . 5 million overspend on child ' s service this financial year , with an increase number of child come into care . I welcome the pledge to provide early intervention , as they provide well outcome for child while keep cost down for council . will the Secretary of State provide more detail on how a joined - up approach will be achieve , so that local authority can provide the good possible care for child ? I be work closely with the Deputy Prime Minister in this crucial area , and there will be more to say before too long about the local government finance settlement . as the hon . member identifie , it be important that we rebalance the child ' s social care system away from crisis intervention and towards more timely and early support . we know that that be where we make the big difference to child ' s life , and that be also what be drive the cost pressure that , sadly , lot of local authority be see , as ever increase number of child go through the child ' s social care system . we be determined to make progress and to put more support in place early for family . I wish to associate myself with the comment of the Secretary of State . while child in care be incredibly important , it be also important that we do our good for those who be care experience . in my constituency , 50 % of those who leave care be not in education , employment or training , as I hear when I visit change life at Eslington House in my constituency on Friday . what more can be do to support care leaver ? my hon . friend be right to identify that , sadly , for too many care - experienced young people come out of the system , their outcome be just not good enough and the fact in term of their life chance be stark . we be determined to change that . I be work closely with the Deputy Prime Minister as part of the care leaver inter - ministerial board , because action across many Departments could make a big and meaningful difference to the life chance of care - experienced young people . as part of that , it be incredibly powerful to listen to the experience of two young people who have just come through the system , and in all our discussion in this important area we must listen to the experience and view of those who have direct live experience of how the system have let they down , and what need to change in future . Devon county council child ' s service be assess by Ofsted in April . it find that the child ' s front door service be effective , after previously have be deem by Ofsted to be inadequate . when the Secretary of State simplifie and consolidate the money available through the local government finance settlement , will she take into account the additional cost bear by rural local authority ? we will look at all factor include the one identify by the hon . Gentleman , as well as at area of good practice where many local council , despite the many difficulty they face , be take forward innovative new way of work , and do all they can to support child and family . there be much we can learn from good example that exist across the country . in Derbyshire , the conservative leader of the county council get in touch with I and other mp in the previous Parliament to plead with we to do something about the profiteer take place in the private sector . nothing happen under the last government , and we hear from the shadow Secretary of State that if we do anything to try to curb that profiteer , we will lose capacity . I agree with the Secretary of State that council have a great role to play . do she agree that if council have their own provision , that would empower they to prevent the profiteering be carry out by extortionate private provider ? I agree with my hon . friend , who be right to identify that there be support for such measure across political party . child be be let down by our failure , and we must do more to improve capacity . we will support council work together to do that . I have see great example of where that have happen , but much more need to be do . as he identify , this be about ensure that child get the support they need to thrive , and under this government they will have support in that crucial area . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . this be incredibly good news so I thank she very much — I think we all welcome it across this great United Kingdom of Great Britian and Northern Ireland . the Barnardo ' s charity in Northern Ireland have indicate for a long time that it have be concern about this issue , so it too welcome the statement today . we in Northern Ireland have the high rate of kinship care , along with Scotland , but a streamlined process with a decent level of funding would enable great buy - in from those who have lot of love but not enough money . any increase would also need additional funding for the devolved region . be the Secretary of State able to confirm that ? I can tell the hon . Gentleman that I be visit Northern Ireland soon , when I look forward to discuss both that area and wide issue relate to education with counterpart in Northern Ireland . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s comment . the more I hear about this area , the more I think that this Government have inherit a wild west from the previous Government , so shocking be the situation in child ' s social care . will she agree to meet I to talk about a particular issue with a foster carer in my constituency that exemplify the scale of the problem we face ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for draw the House ' s attention to this area . I would be more than happy to meet he . he be right that the situation we have inherit be one where too many child be be let down and where the quality of provision for very vulnerable child be just not good enough . I look forward to work with he to make that change happen . with more than 300 child in Hartlepool in social care , the council be be slowly bankrupt . the top four private provider on average be charge £ 12 , 000 per child per week . that be £ 624 , 000 a year per child . do my right hon . friend agree that only by cap that outrageous profiteering can we protect child , but also get value for money for local council tax payer ? private provider be make , in some case , between 20 % and 30 % profit . that be way beyond what we would expect in any other area . crucially , when we think about where they be make that profit , it be off the back of the trauma , abuse and sometimes very difficult early childhood experience of some of the most vulnerable child in our country . my hon . friend be right that the issue he identify in Hartlepool be sadly feel right across the country . he may wish to know that there be now more than 1 , 500 child in placement that each cost half a million pound every single year . we have get to change that . analysis by the Local Government Association reveal that the top 15 private child ' s social care provider be make an average profit of 23 % . it be frankly unacceptable that private firm be profit at all from vulnerable child , let alone when the care they provide be so often poor and be fund by public money , push council to the brink . I commend the Government ' s plan to tackle this urgent issue . will my right hon . friend also commit to properly fund not - for - profit and public sector provision to improve child ' s social care and to end this obscene profiteer for good ? it be vital that we drive up standard and quality in child ' s social care placement , and we want to make sure that we be provide support for council , charity and other to do precisely that . the high possible standard and quality of care be essential for child and young people who have be through some very traumatic experience and deserve our full support . I agree that we must take action on excessive profiteering . it have be leave to drift for far too long , and this Government will act . I warmly welcome this statement , like all colleague on the Government Benches and hopefully like colleague across the whole House . I particularly welcome the comment on care leaver ; it be important that we do not forget about they . when I become council leader of St Helens in 2019 , service for care leaver be rate inadequate by Ofsted . I be proud to say that they be now outstanding . the credit for that go to Councillor Nova Charlton and the whole child ' s service team . the Secretary of State be more than welcome to visit St Helens to hear about the good work they do and how they do it . will she tell I a bit more about what step she be take with colleague to make sure that local government have the funding it need to run these service ? it have to be a whole council effort — if one part fail , it all fall down . I commend my hon . friend and his council on the work they have undertake to deliver well outcome for care - experienced young people . it be crucial , and I be sure there be much we can learn from that work . the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) will be happy to have a conversation with he to discuss that far . we will be set out further step to make clear the funding arrangement , but it be essential that we put more money into child ' s social care . we be do that , and we will set out more in due course through the local government finance settlement . I welcome the reform zeal of the Secretary of State in this area ; her work have be outstanding . as somebody who lead a council with a double outstanding accreditation for the past eight year — all praise go to council staff for that — may I ask that we learn from the good within the sector and ensure that local government can also trigger a review where it see profiteer ? in one case in Telford , a bill for one placement of £ 409 , 000 be take almost overnight . may I also give a word of caution and be assure that this grant will not be like the public health grant , which be consolidate into the local government fund and cut and erode over a number of year ? I join my hon . friend in praise the work of council staff and the many council across our country take action in this area . I agree that we can learn a lot from the good example of support for care - experienced young people and the overall approach take around child ' s social care . I look forward to work with he in that area and note the point he raise . when it come to ensure that local council have a role in the financial oversight of the system , we will of course take his view into account . the regime we will set out will allow we to provide much clear and great scrutiny those provider that be , frankly , profit shamefully from some of the most vulnerable child in our country . I be pleased to hear the statement on care leaver . child who leave care have previously be let down by a system that pretty much stop support once they leave care . to ensure that care - experienced young people can make the most of their future , will the Secretary of State outline the Government ' s plan to support care leaver in Tamworth and around the country so that they can gain the skill and experience they need to thrive ? my hon . friend be right to identify the urgent need to do more to support care leaver at the point when they move through the system and throughout their life . that be why I be work with the Deputy Prime Minister and other Government colleague so that we all pull together and do much more to deliver well life chance for care leaver . we will roll out the stay close programme nationally to ensure that all young people leave care have the support they need . we be also set out corporate parenting proposal to ensure that all of we pull together to listen to the view and experience of young people . I be sure that , like I , she have hear directly from care leaver about how badly they feel fail by a system that have not properly reflect their need and experience , and it be vital that we put the need of care - experienced young people front and centre in our discussion . I welcome the statement and the robust step the Government be take for our child and young people . I be disappoint to read a report by Ofsted last week into the special educational need and disability provision in Derbyshire , which find there to be " systemic failing " and that the provision be inadequate . our child and young people deserve so much well . have the Secretary of State make an assessment of how the previous Government ' s failure to deal with SEND have fuel problem in child ' s social care ? do she agree that more integration be need between education , healthcare , local authority and provider , include through integrate care board and partnership , to deliver long - last and sustain outcome for our young people ? I agree with my hon . friend : that joint working be important , and it provide much clear support for family who often do not want to have to repeat their experience time and again to different set of professional and who want well and more targeted support . I have see great example , include in Lewisham early this week , where the pathfinder programme ensure that all child get the support they need through more timely intervention and through work closely with family . I know that Derby city council have do some excellent work in that area . there be an overlap between child ' s social care and SEND , and they have similar challenge . we want to ensure that we share practice between those two area where possible . child in care be some of the most vulnerable in our society , and many people in Sandwell be worried about child in small care home , which often seem to lack oversight and regulation . I welcome the measure that the Government set out today . will the Secretary of State ensure that Ofsted have the power it need to inspect child ' s social care and ensure that all home be suitable and safe place for child to be ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for share she and her constituent ' concern with the House . we will act to ensure that Ofsted have the power it need to tackle unregistered , unsafe and unsuitable placement and accommodation . our most vulnerable child deserve the good possible support , and right now we be sadly far away from that . the outcome for child and family involve in the child ' s social care system be some of the bad in our country . that be truly a huge social justice issue , so I welcome the leadership show by the Secretary of State and her team so soon in the new Government ' s time in office . so many of the recommendation come from the contribution of those with live experience , whether on regional care co - operative , expand corporate parenting , the importance of a unique child identifier and the change to Ofsted that have be announce . do the Secretary of State agree that the contribution make to the review that I lead by thousand of people with live experience , who be often so unheard and unseen in society , be validate by today ' s announcement ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his tremendous work in this area . I be delighted that we have be able to act in many of the area that he identify as part of his review . he be right to draw our attention to the thousand of people , include those with live experience , who contribute to his vital work . it be testament to his work and their contribution that the Government be able to take forward work in so many area that will make a significant difference to the life and experience of vulnerable child across our country , from today and over many year to come . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and the Under - Secretary of State for Education , the hon . member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) , for her recent visit to my constituency . in its exemplary work , Leeds city council be currently focus on small group home to bring child back to Leeds from private provision outside the city , which will give much well outcome and save significant cost , and on early help and intervention . the Minister see all that work when she be in Leeds . will the Secretary of State , whose work on regional care co - operative I absolutely welcome , clarify far what support will be available for local authority to consider alternative model of care over and above those co - operative ? my hon . friend ' s local authority have do brilliant work in this area . we be keen to build on the good example that already exist around the country . I know that my hon . friend the Under - Secretary be impressed with everything that she see as part of that visit . we be determined to ensure that we back council and their ability to work regionally to deliver well placement close to home , and to bring child back into their local area wherever possible . my hon . friend will know , as I do , that child thrive when they be close to family and support network . that allow for much strong and well life chance as they move into adulthood . I look forward to work with he to ensure that council have the power to do more . we will set out more as soon as parliamentary time allow . it be so refreshing to see a Labour Secretary of State take action on profiteer in our local authority . I have be call for such action , because in my constituency the average cost of an independent residential placement have increase by 65 % in the last five year . despite that , our Labour - lead council continue to fight to give decent and good - quality placement to all our look - after child . do the Secretary of State agree that tackle the practice of excess profiteering , which be largely ignore by the previous Government , be exactly what we be elect to do to get value for taxpayer ' money and ensure that these vital service , which look after our vulnerable child , deliver the good possible outcome for child whom we be determined will succeed ? I be grateful for all my hon . friend ' s work in this area . she be right that council be leave at the mercy of private provider , often pay extortionate cost for poor - quality provision that do not deliver safety , dignity and well life chance for our child . we be determined to turn that around , and I look forward to work with she to ensure that child across our country , include those go through the child ' s social care system , have their voice hear . their struggle and challenge have too long be ignore . under this government , action will follow . in my time as a councillor and corporate parent , nothing be more distressing than the complex safeguarding issue that we have to deal with , and nothing more enrage that see people profit from they . that be why Calderdale council do good work to bring child ' s home in house . I hope that the statement mean an end to that profiteer . we be call time on the excess profiteering of big private provider , which be see profit of 20 % to 30 % . if they fail to act and bring down cost , we will legislate to cap their cost . this can not continue ; it have be leave to drift for far too long , and local authority such as my hon . friend ' s have be up against it , often face an impossible task but do great work where they can . we will work with council , include on a regional basis , to provide accommodation for child and young people that be close to home and of a high quality , with well standard , and we will tackle unregistered and illegal provision . it be brilliant to see a Secretary of State take this issue so seriously and get a grip on it so early on in her time in government . figure publish last week show that the number of child place far from home increase by 51 % over the last decade between 2014 and 2024 . do the Secretary of State agree that it be about not only capacity , quality and cost , but the geography of the placement , to ensure that when child be place away from their family , they can stay in touch ? my hon . friend be right . there be big difference base on geography . I find it quite astounding that 25 % of register place be in the north - west of England . that be a staggering number , and sadly it mean that far too many child be move far from home , away from family network and move school or education provision . we need to make sure that that change and that our most vulnerable child , who have often be through incredibly traumatic early childhood experience and expose to thing that no child should ever see or witness , get the good possible support and standard . I look forward to work with my hon . friend to drive up standard and make sure that every child in his constituency who need support through child ' s social care have a much well experience and well adult life chance . bus Funding with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will update the House on our plan for well bus in England outside London . when we talk about fix the foundation of our country , our mind should turn to the nation ' s most popular form of public transport , because nothing prop up our economy more or well support our society than the 3 . 4 billion passenger journey carry by our bus each year . they be more than just take people from a to b : they be a lifeline for young and old , in city or town , bind we to job , public service and opportunity . from trip to the shop or a doctor ' s appointment to a job interview , bus shoulder the daily need of Britain and , in do so , underpin every single one of our national mission . that be why , come what may , this Government will always back our bus . like much of the economy , our inheritance be dire . some 40 year of fail deregulation have turn many lifeline bus service into liability . passenger be let down as they sometimes wait for hour for bus that do not turn up . area be cut off as operator prioritise more viable route in town centre . fare continue to rise , and nearly 300 million few mile be be drive than in 2010 . none of this be inevitable or an accident , but all of it be down to choice — political choice — pave the way for decline and place a ceiling on the ambition of many , especially the poor in society , who catch 10 time more bus than train . enough be enough . this Government have choose to back our bus and the million who rely on they every day . in last month ' s Budget , we confirm more than £ 1 billion in funding to improve service , protect vital route and keep fare down . today , we be distribute that funding , which mean more than £ 700 million for local council to deliver bus service improvement plan and well meet local need , and a furth £ 243 million for bus operator , include fund a long - stand grant to drive down fare and drive up service . in many place , this be record investment , and every region and authority in England will benefit , especially area that be historically underserved , such as rural area and small town . council such as Leicester , the Isle of Wight , Torbay and Cambridgeshire will see unprecedented level of funding for service . route that be at risk will be save and passenger will see fast , more reliable journey . we be also put money into safe bus stop and more accessible passenger information so that our bus sector be fit for everyone . I be delighted that metro mayor have welcome the announcement , with city region such as Greater Manchester , West Yorkshire and Liverpool receive some of the big allocation . that be not all . we be commit over £ 150 million to cap bus fare at £ 3 , ensure passenger do not face a cliff edge of high price from next year , particularly in rural area where bus be a lifeline . the current fare cap be only fund until 31 December , mean that without the action we be take , some fare would have rise by 80 % . we be not go to let that happen . we be invest to keep fare down , put money back in people ' s pocket , and to provide more frequent service so that more people can get to more place at more time of the day . not only be we a pro - investment Government , we be a pro - reform Government . we will not hesitate to overhaul part of the system that simply be not work for passenger . if that mean change to how we allocate resource , we will make they ; if passenger ' need be not be meet , we will prioritise they ; and if law be need , we will introduce they . we have call time on the way that bus funding have historically be allocate . previously , the Government make council compete for funding , waste resource and delay decision . that be overly complicated , lead to inconsistent funding , and create uncertainty for authority and operator . we be take a fundamentally different approach . we have allocate funding base on local need , population , the distance that bus travel , and level of deprivation . that put fairness at the heart of future funding and end the postcode lottery for bus service . it ensure taxpayer money go to the area that be most in need , where it will have the most impact and where passenger will most benefit . this be the first stop on our journey to support local area to take back control of service and deliver well bus across the country . finally , we will introduce our landmark bus Bill in the come week — the big shake - up of the sector for 40 year . this Bill will allow council across the country to adopt franchising model , as in Greater Manchester and London . that mean local leader take back control of service , ensure that route , fare and timetable be all gear towards local passenger need . this model work . it have be over a year since bus be bring under public control in Greater Manchester . since then , passenger number have grow , reliability have improve , and new 24 / 7 service have be introduce . road be now manage in a way that work for bus , mean that unexpected congestion or unplanned roadwork do not leave passenger strand . that be what power in local hand look like . it be why we be simplify the franchise process to ensure local leader waste no time in drive improvement for passenger . we will also remove the ideological ban on publicly own bus company so that our bus can finally be run for the public , by the public . I have say it before , and I will say it again : when it come to our public transport , we be move fast and fix thing . after year of decline , we be put passenger back at the heart of our bus through record level of investment and generational reform . last month ' s Budget send the signal that , even in difficult economic time , this Government will never take our bus for grant , because we know that invest in bus mean invest in people , in community and in the future growth of our country . well bus be just a few stop away . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for deliver her statement to the House , and for advance sight of it . it be , of course , the last Government who provide £ 4 . 5 billion of funding to the bus sector since 2020 alone . some £ 2 billion of that be allocate to support every single local transport authority in England to deliver their local bus service improvement plan , help to support bus follow the pandemic and ensure more frequent , more reliable and cheap bus transport across the country . conservative Members be familiar with the need to properly fund bus service , but simply spend a bit more money will not necessarily improve outcome . as such , we would welcome detail on whether and how the Secretary of State can assure the House and the taxpayer that the money allocate today will actually go towards the improvement of bus service in the long term . how will she ensure that the money allocate today , and the bus service improvement plan that go with this investment , will remain aligned with any possible future franchising ? if the Secretary of State can not give assurance on these point , there be a danger that the Government be take short - term action that avoid face complex long - term problem . unfortunately , in the four month that this Government have be in office , that have be their approach to every single major issue they have face so far . whether it be the winter fuel allowance , the family farm tax or the increase to the bus fare cap , the Government seem at a loss as to why their policy be so unpopular , and why — only a few month into this government — they be so deeply distrust by the british public . govern be tough , and it require take real responsibility and consider the consequence of decision before they be take . for example , the decision to increase the bus fare cap from £ 2 to £ 3 will cost user more — [ interruption . ] wait for it . it will cost user more and — perversely — put at risk passenger service on certain route , because it could counter - productively drive bus ridership down . between 2022 and 2023 , the £ 2 bus cap cut fare outside London by 7 . 4 % , and the rate be 10 . 8 % in rural and non - metropolitan area in England . that be an example of a policy that work , which be why the Government ' s decision to increase the cap by 50 % be such a disappointment . the right hon . Lady , in defend her decision to hike bus fare , have be make the argument — she have do so again this afternoon — that the fare cap be to run only until end of the year . but as she know full well — her Back Benchers can be excuse for not know this — it be standard Government practice to set funding arrangement until a give date . she have guarantee the £ 3 cap only until the end of 2025 and have make no commitment to extend it beyond that . she be also well aware that it be a conservative party manifesto commitment to extend the cap and maintain it at £ 2 for the lifetime of this Parliament . not extend the £ 2 cap be not inevitable ; it be a decision that the Government choose to make . why do the right hon . Lady ' s Government claim that they can not afford to retain the £ 2 bus fare cap , which be make a real difference to the life of passenger and the viability of public service across the country , and yet she can give hundred of million of pound in additional funding here without any guarantee of success in improve service or delivery ? while I await the right hon . Lady ' s answer , I have a theory . she be set on an undertaking — the ideological drive for bus franchising — and , make no mistake , it be ideological . bus franchising do work in some place , but by no mean will it work everywhere . the Government claim that they will not impose franchise everywhere , but there be a danger that her push for bus franchising will force local authority into feeling that they be expect to undertake this ideological venture — one that they say they may well be unprepared and unequipped for — which would lead to a bad outcome for passenger . I call on the Secretary of State to make clear her answer to those question and assure the House and the taxpayer that all the money allocate will be hold to account in deliver real and lasting service improvement for passenger , whose interest should , of course , be at the centre of all decision make by the Government . I be grateful to the shadow Secretary of State for his question , but I have to say that I will take no lesson from those on the conservative Benches on good government . the approach to funding allocation be base on need , on deprivation , on population and on bus mileage , whereas his government waste million of pound in force area to compete against each other , pick winner and loser , raise expectation and leave some Tory - control area such as Essex , where I be this morning , with absolutely nothing from the bus service improvement plan process . this formula and the funding allocate be a fair arrangement , ensure that every area of the country get the service level it need and can build the improvement plan that it want . I have to say that I will also take no lesson on ideology . for four decade , England outside London have experience the fail deregulation of bus service , lead to a steady decline in passenger number . this funding be back up by a once - in - a - generation reform to our bus policy , ensure that we can deliver well bus service in every corner of the country , with public control back up by funding and a Government who believe in bus . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s £ 9 million investment in the bus system across my constituency . give the comment she have just hear , do she agree that it take a Labour Government to really understand not just the cost but the value of public transport , and that our Labour Government be get on with the job of deliver well bus for our community ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her support . not only be we ensure record funding for the majority of area in this country ; we be push ahead with reform . there be no point throw money at a broken system , as the previous Government be so content to do . I be delighted that we be able to deliver well bus service for the people of Luton . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement , which I warmly welcome . as she make clear , access to convenient , frequent and affordable bus be vital . they be critical to both employment and quality of life , particularly in rural area . sadly , however , too many part of our country lack decent bus service , after year of Tory neglect . at a time when we desperately need economic growth , ensure a comprehensive and affordable bus network be vital . I congratulate the Secretary of State on secure the promise funding . however , we have some concern . uncertainty still surround how local authority can seize the opportunity herald in the promise change to bus franchising . furthermore , if , as the Secretary of State believe , bus be a lifeline for young and old , why be she hit bus user with a 50 % increase in fare ? polling commission by the Lib Dems and publish last week show that the hike will make a third of people less likely to use a bus , which will have a direct impact on individual , community , small business and high street , and will hit the most disadvantaged in society the hard . it would cost just £ 150 million a year to retain the £ 2 fare cap . again , I ask she to reconsider . I would like to ask the Secretary of State three specific question . first , when will she publish the full impact assessment on the £ 2 bus fare cap , commission by her Department early this year ? secondly , will she guarantee that the new power need for local authority to franchise bus service will be provide urgently , so that bus route can be restore and new one add as soon as possible ? lastly , although I welcome the change to the allocation process and the rejection of wasteful and expensive competitive bidding between council , will she confirm that the new , more flexible system will not succumb to the temptation of pork barrel politic that we see so frequently under the last Conservative Government ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for those incredibly important question . we have commit to publish the evaluation of the £ 2 bus fare cap shortly . we will introduce the well bus Bill in the come week , which will allow every area of the country to avail themselves of the franchising power and overturn the ideological ban on public ownership . my Department be also take a much more proactive enable role with local transport authority , make sure that they have the capability and capacity to move to franchising . a significant amount of the funding settlement announce today be specifically for capability and staffing in local transport authority . finally , on pork barrel politic , the reason behind today ' s funding be that we be not in the business of pick winner and loser . we want to ensure that every corner of the country have the funding it deserve and the ability to avail itself of the style of bus that we have enjoy in London for four decade . give that the conservative party ' s record be a 20 % cut in the bus service operator grant , a 40p - in - the - pound cut in local bus funding , and 12 , 000 bus service cut between 2010 and 2023 — a fall of more than half — do my right hon . friend agree that some of what we have hear today be a bit rich ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we see bus mileage and passenger number plummet under the last Tory Government . the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) talk about the funding that they provide , but they be throw money at a broken system . this record funding for the majority of the country come alongside massive reform so that we can give back control and deliver the well bus that every corner of the country deserve . bus usage after the pandemic be begin to recover in Worcestershire , thank to the £ 2 bus fare and improvement to route . we be campaign in Malvern for a well and more regular bus service between Worcester and Malvern , include on weekend , and for the reinstatement of the X43 service . we hope that we would be able to do that with some of the £ 209 million of High Speed 2 money that be indicate for Worcestershire . could the Secretary of State clarify what have happen to that funding , and how it link to her statement ? I be very pleased to confirm that Worcestershire be receive £ 9 . 4 million dedicate for local bus service , a £ 4 million increase on this year . of that , £ 5 . 4 million be revenue funding and can absolutely be deliver for the kind of bus service that the hon . Lady outline . I thank the Secretary of State on behalf of resident in Exeter and across Devon , who will be delighted with the £ 11 . 6 million of extra funding for our bus system . as I look around the Chamber , it be very clear who take bus seriously and who do not . Devon and Torbay have already be give the power to franchise and otherwise regulate bus service as part of the devolution deal sign off by the Government this year , yet tory - run Devon county council have specifically say that it will not use those power . do she agree with I that Devon county council should take bus and passenger experience as seriously as this Government ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . we know that franchising work ; Greater Manchester go through the franchising process a year ago and it have already drive up revenue and passenger number . that have allow Andy Burnham to step in and use that revenue to keep his own bus fare cap at £ 2 . with the funding allocate today , local transport authority can absolutely lower fare below the maximum of £ 3 . I absolutely encourage area that already have the power to plan a bus network that be appropriate for their community . the Department stand ready to work with Devon and Torbay to ensure that they can do that . the new funding for bus service in Somerset be welcome , but my constituent often tell I that they need bus - rail link to connect area not serve by train station . will the Secretary of State outline the exact condition for what each tranche of money must be spend on , to allow the council to plan much - need improvement to service in rural area ? the way the formula have be design explicitly benefit rural area , because a third of the allocation be dependent on bus mileage ; that be why a number of area , include Somerset , have do much well out of today ' s allocation than in previous year . we be remove the control that be previously require . all the funding will have to be spend on bus , but we believe it be right that local transport authority take those decision themselves rather than be constrain by central diktat from Whitehall . I thank the Secretary of State for the £ 23 million for Kent county council . as a Kent county councillor — for a little bit long — I have see the ridiculous bidding war and the hoop we have have to jump through for many , many year . will the money be ringfence for bus , while allow Kent county council the flexibility to spend it on the KCC Travel Saver — a fantastic initiative to help kid get around Kent to local school ? will the money facilitate that ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that important question . we have lift control on the funding from the Department . we think it be absolutely right that Kent county council should be able to decide where its bus money go . the money will be ringfence to ensure that it be spend on bus , but if area want to spend it on provide concession for young people or care leaver , on buy new bus or on add new service , that be entirely within its gift . it be right that Kent county council make those decision , rather than I . passenger in many part of the country , include in my constituency , rely on cross - boundary bus service for shopping , visit friend and family , and access vital public service . too often , however , cross - boundary service can feel like a bit of an afterthought . will the Secretary of State look at how funding mechanism can be use to encourage passenger transport authority to properly integrate those service , because community tie do not stop at county boundary ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that important question , which I often hear . cross - border service can be an absolute lifeline for people travel out of area for work , and we can absolutely consider that issue as part of debate on the well bus Bill . I hope he will involve himself in that debate as it pass through the House . it be a time of optimism for everyone who use the bus in Welwyn Hatfield . first , after a long Labour party campaign we have double the frequency of one of the lifeline bus service to which the Secretary of State refer : between the urgent care centre at Queen Elizabeth II hospital and the Lister hospital . secondly , we have hear today the announcement of £ 12 . 25 million for bus in Hertfordshire . I be hope that my right hon . friend can make it a hat trick , and confirm that local power will be give to people in Hertfordshire to take bus back into public control . may I begin by say what an absolute joy it be to thank my hon . friend the Labour MP for Welwyn Hatfield ? he be absolutely right ; I can confirm that the well bus Bill will extend power to every local authority that want to avail itself of franchising . because we be well aware that not every transport authority in the country be in either London or Greater Manchester , the Department stand ready to work with those in more rural area and with different type of transport authority , and to look at different model to give they the flexibility that will enable they to build a network that work for their community . I welcome the statement , and I particularly welcome the change in funding mechanism — the move away from hoop - jumping , jam - jar funding to something that take proper account of local need ; I hope very much that it will take proper account of rurality . however , I want to ask about another issue . pensioner get free bus travel but child do not . in my rural constituency , the cost to people who do not fit the very narrow definition of those eligible for free bus travel be £ 1 , 000 a year . be it not time to extend concessionary bus travel to child ? the hon . Lady be right , and that be one of the reason why , throughout next year , we will be look at the bus fare cap and consider whether we can extend a concession of some kind to young people . the point of the BSIP funding be that it can be use to deliver concessionary scheme as well . the hon . Lady should encourage her local authority to think about whether some of the revenue funding that have be allocate can be deliver for young people . More than 62 , 000 people have already sign my petition on change . org to protect the £ 2 bus fare cap . one young person explain how rise fare make it increasingly difficult for they to get to college , while another describe public transport as a vital lifeline against loneliness . affordable public transport be essential not only to alleviate economic hardship , but to address the climate crisis . instead of increase the fare cap by 50 % to £ 3 and cost ordinary people hundred of pound more each year , why do the Government not take a page from the book of Greater Manchester ' s Labour Mayor , Andy Burnham , who have commit himself to maintain the £ 2 fare cap to ensure that public transport remain accessible to everyone ? the combination of Andy Burnham have franchise power and this transformational funding be the reason why he can keep the fare cap at £ 2 in Greater Manchester . the combination of this transformational funding and more power for authority in the rest of the country will enable they to keep fare low as well . I be disappoint that the Secretary of State do not mention the west midland a single time in her statement . my constituent across Meriden and Solihull East rely on bus to travel to job , job interview and education facility , and to attend medical appointment . do the Secretary of State recognise that the most vulnerable people in my community , and those who need bus the most , will be hard hit by the 50 % increase in the bus cap ? this afternoon I be delighted to meet the Mayor of the west midland , Richard Parker , to talk about how he be take forward the bus power in the west midland . I be also delighted to announce the £ 50 million funding settlement for the west midland , which will be transformational for the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . my constituent know that bus service be not good enough . we welcome the announcement of more power and more funding for our area , but sadly the Conservative Tees Valley Mayor , Ben Houchen , have rule out any exploration of give the public control of bus service . can the Secretary of State tell I how we can get around the bus blocker to ensure that there be decent bus service for Hartlepool constituent ? my hon . friend be entirely right . Tees Valley have do very well out of today ' s funding settlement , and I would encourage the Mayor to consider franchising option to deliver well bus service for the whole area . I can also confirm that through the well bus Bill we will be lift the ideological ban on public ownership , so my hon . friend can certainly consider work with his local authority to set up a publicly own bus company if the Mayor do not choose to avail himself of those power . my young constituent in Bathampton who attend Ralph Allen school have to put up with an atrocious service . they first have to go into Bath city centre , and then they have to take a second bus out again , halfway back to where they come from , to get to school ; they often miss school because of the infrequency of the service , and they pay twice . a direct service would be cheap , well and safe . Bath council want to make service well and franchise they directly , but the West of England Mayor be prevent that . will the Secretary of State please urge the Mayor to listen to west of England authority and allow they to franchise service directly and bring bus back under local control ? with her example , the hon . Lady describe exactly what franchising be design to provide : the ability to design the service that people rely on and ensure that schoolchildren have a direct route to school . I would encourage all our mayoral colleague to take forward franchising . for 14 year , the last Government fail community with a lack of investment in our bus service , lead to few service , reduce timetable , increase unreliability and , ultimately , less control . in 2023 , in my area alone , ten of million few bus mile be travel than in 2010 . do the Secretary of State agree that our town , village and rural area depend on our bus , and that the almost £ 24 million announce for the North East combine authority will turn the page for my community , which be let down so badly by the previous Government ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . particularly in rural area , bus simply be not good enough . entire town and village be cut off , with no bus service before 9 am or after 5 pm , and that leave people with their ambition completely curtail . I be really pleased to have be work with Kim McGuinness , the Mayor of the North East , to ensure that , through the well bus Bill , we speed up the franchising process and make available to she as quickly as possible the power to deliver well bus for my hon . friend ' s constituent . the Barnett formula comparability factor calculate how much money each devolve nation receive as a consequence of UK Government spending in England . Wales ' s comparability factor for transport be now 33 . 5 % , compare with 95 . 6 % for Scotland and Northern Ireland . can the Secretary of State confirm whether this unfair funding arrangement apply to the new bus funding , and will she say how much Wales would receive in cash term if it have the same percentage share of funding as Scotland and Northern Ireland ? I will take away the hon . Lady ' s specific question about the percentage and write to she , but I be pleased to meet Ken Skates , the Welsh Transport Minister , just a few week ago to talk about the Welsh Government ' s own ambitious plan for bus franchising across Wales . they be learn the lesson from Greater Manchester and London , and ensure that every constituent in Wales will be able to benefit from well bus . what a fantastic day for every person in Plymouth who use the bus ! we strongly welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement that £ 4 . 5 million will be invest in our bus over the next couple of year . she say that that represent an investment not just in bus , but in people and community . that be fantastic to hear . do she agree that today ' s announcement represent the Labour Government invest in Plymouth ? I be very happy to confirm that we be invest in Plymouth , Plymouth ' s people and Plymouth ' s bus . bus be an enormous engine of social justice , because , as I say early , the most deprived rely on they the most . I be afraid that be why they have be so badly neglect in this place for so long , but that will absolutely turn around under this Labour Government . bus be my priority and this Labour Government ' s priority . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be a member of Norfolk county council . I be pleased that £ 15 million of the new funding will be head to Norfolk to support our rural bus service , but the model for run bus in Norfolk be break . we need a service that work for everyone , not just route to and from the city and the occasional shopping bus . will the Secretary of State assure I that this money will not just disappear into county council coffer or route subsidy , but instead help build the proper public transport network that North Norfolk need ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . under the current system , money have be throw hand over fist at operator , which have cherry - pick the most commercially viable route , leave local authority to step in to subsidise the lifeline route that people rely on . the benefit of area be able to move to a franchised system , or indeed to set up their own publicly own bus company , be that they can cross - subsidise properly across route , and ensure that public money be spend in the good way and that we design route and network that really work for local community . on Friday I meet member of the 17th Norwich scout group as part of UK Parliament Week , and they have lot of question on transport . they be particular concerned about the reliability and availability of bus . could the Secretary of State expand on how today ' s announcement will support young people and how we can ensure that their voice be hear in this important conversation ? it be particularly important that we encourage young people on to bus , so that they can develop well behaviour and carry on use bus throughout their adult life . I be delighted that we can confirm an additional £ 1 . 2 million in revenue funding for Norfolk . that revenue funding will be available to Norfolk to enable it to add additional service and improve the reliability and frequency of its local bus . I would like to acknowledge the significant investment in my constituency and say how welcome this will be after Torbay ' s first " bus back well " bid come back empty from the Conservatives . one of the issue that have lead to significant cut in our bus service be the recruitment of bus driver . can the Secretary of State advise we on how the Government plan to enhance the opportunity for the recruitment of bus driver so that this money can be put to good use ? Torbay be a fantastic example of an area that have do well out of this funding settlement but be treat appallingly by the previous bus service improvement plan funding process . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that the recruitment of bus driver be an issue that have plague certain part of the country , and we be work closely with the Department for Work and Pensions , through its " get Britain work " White Paper , to ensure that we can address recruitment and retention issue in the bus sector . just a few short week ago , when the new bus franchising arrangement be announce in this place , Conservative Members say that it would never work without funding attach . now we have our answer , and the £ 1 billion of funding nationally and the £ 23 million of funding for Kent , which have already be mention , be hugely welcome and will certainly be a big boost for my resident in Dartford and also a big boost to our effort to kick - start growth in the Thames estuary . do the Secretary of State agree that boost connection between our rural area and our town be vital to increase access to job ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I get very frustrated in the transport policy space because we often think of investment only in big infrastructure as a mechanism by which to achieve growth , but bus be essential to deliver growth in local community . they connect people to job , to opportunity , to education and to each other , so they be not only a massive engine of growth but one of the most important engine of social justice available in transport policy term . many of my rural constituent have comment that the level of the bus cap be irrelevant when there be no bus to use , so I welcome the extra funding today , but do the Secretary of State agree that it should be direct to ensure a minimum level of service for all user rather than increase the frequency of service in urban area that be already well serve , as have happen previously in the west of England ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . the big barrier to people get the bus be the absence of a bus in lot of community , and that be why we have direct this significant level of funding into community to ensure that it be invest in local bus service . the benefit of move to franchising mean that we avoid add more and more operator and more and more service to commercially viable route , and that we can design a network that mean that more area and community be serve by the timetable and level of service that they deserve . this be exactly what she address , and it will allow a minimum level of service that every area can expect . may I take this opportunity to thank the Secretary of State for visit the good town in the country , Harlow , this morning ? I want to personally welcome the £ 17 . 8 million of funding for bus service in Essex , which be hugely important . do she agree that the hidden benefit of improve our bus service in Essex will be to tackle social isolation , which be a particular issue in more deprived area where there be no reliable bus service ? I be delighted to be in Harlow with my hon . friend this morning to announce record level of investment for Essex , another area that be badly underserve by the previous Government . someone mention early that bus passenger number have be increase since covid , which be true , but concessionary level be still far below where they be before covid . I be afraid that potentially highlight the real issue of social isolation , and the hidden issue of old people not be able to access public transport . only by deliver reliable , accessible bus service can we tackle social isolation and give old people the service they deserve . the £ 6 million funding for Somerset be clearly welcome , although it be much less than be need , consider that Somerset be rate as have the bad county bus service in the country . I particularly welcome the ending of the lottery that set one community against another . will the Secretary of State congratulate the Somerset bus partnership volunteer who , work with my liberal Democrat colleague now run Somerset council , prevent the previous Conservative county council from close the park and ride , get night bus go and have begin a new transport hub since the bus station in Taunton be close as a result of conservative privatisation ? it sound like the Somerset volunteer be do a crack job . I be very happy to congratulate they and to welcome the £ 6 . 8 million of funding announce for Somerset today . under the last government , the number of mile travel on bus route in the north - east fall by 30 % , but that number also measure the region ' s aspiration unfulfilled , the opportunity lose and the job interview and family event that could not be attend . I very much welcome the near £ 24 million of funding give to the north - east in this announcement . how will the Secretary of State work with mayor such as Labour ' s Kim McGuinness to ensure that the aspiration and opportunity of people in Gateshead be give flight by this announcement ? my hon . friend be right that the 30 % cut to his bus service be absolutely shocking . behind every one of those cut be a human story of opportunity and ambition curtail . I have be work closely with Kim McGuinness on speed up the franchising process . under the current legislation , Andy Burnham take six year to bring a single bus service under public control , despite have be elect twice in that period on a mandate to do so . we want to ensure that we drastically speed up the process and reduce the cost to local transport authority and mayoral authority of get to franchising , so that the money can be spend effectively on local bus service . Shropshire be one of the worst - serve county in England for public transport , have lose 63 % of its bus mile since 2015 , compare with a national average of about 19 % . a person in Market Drayton who want to get to the close hospital in Telford , which be a 20 - minute car journey , be look at a five - hour round trip on the bus . we have only one service operate between Oswestry and Chester on Sundays . I be afraid that I be therefore quite disappointed by Shropshire ' s £ 2 . 5 million revenue allocation in this round of funding . will the Secretary of State meet I to learn about the huge transport challenge we face in Shropshire , and to see if we can do well ? I be delighted to confirm that Shropshire ' s resource departmental expenditure limit allocation be £ 3 . 1 million , so the hon . Lady have already have a furth £ 600 , 000 out of today ' s statement . the Government ' s big reform to England ' s bus system in 40 year see the people of Portsmouth have power put back into the hand of our community . today ' s funding , the cutting of red tape and the ending of the postcode lottery will ensure that bus route be where they be need , allow everyone to access work , medical appointment and social life . can the Secretary of State inform people in Portsmouth North how the funding award and the landmark bus Bill — soon to be table — will support these welcome change to truly put people first ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for stand up , for Portsmouth and its people , as she always do . today ' s funding settlement will be ringfence towards bus to ensure that Portsmouth get both the level of funding it need and , crucially , the flexibility and control to deliver it where it be need most . Portsmouth will be able to avail itself of the power we will announce in the come week to take back control of its bus service and to deliver route , service and fare level that be right for the people of Portsmouth . a few hour ago , I march with Eastbourne resident such as Jodie Atherton , and Eastbourne business such as DB Domestics and the Rosy Lee caf é in Seaside , against Conservative - run East Sussex county council ' s car - crash bus service improvement plan , after the council fail to adequately consult resident or properly model the impact of the plan . will the Secretary of State review East Sussex county council ' s catalogue of failure in this area , and will she introduce safeguard to ensure that community voice be at the heart of any bus service improvement plan that the money she have announce today will fund in my patch of Eastbourne ? the hon . Gentleman raise some important point . it be right that local people have the mechanism and ability to hold their local authority to account . one such mechanism that we will introduce through the well bus Bill be a local network safeguard , which will ensure that the voice of community and constituent be at the heart of any change to local bus network . I strongly welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . some £ 5 . 4 million will be deliver for bus in my area , which be a significant increase in real term on previous year . when I meet the chief executive of my local chamber of commerce , he say that the big barrier to growth in our area be poor public transport . do my right hon . friend agree that this investment , as well as the Government ' s propose reform , be crucial if we be to break down barrier to opportunity and grow our economy ? my hon . friend make an important point . this Government have put improve public transport at the heart of our priority in order to deliver growth and allow people to access opportunity . colleague from across the House will recognise the picture he paint because , time and again , they will hear that the big barrier many business face to widen their labour market and ensure people can access opportunity be poor local transport . that be why we be so delighted to announce this transformational funding . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement today that every region of England and Wales will benefit , especially rural area and small town . in Chippenham , large agricultural industry base in the countryside be currently have to find private transport themselves to get shift worker in and out of their business . the further education college have have to cap its hour because the last bus leave so early that student can not continue to follow a proper day ' s work . this be a real problem for growth and skill in my rural constituency . will the Secretary of State ensure that those county that be not currently part of a wide mayoral system get the funding they need ? college and large employer that use shift worker be two of the institution that often raise with I their frustration about local bus service . the problem with the current system be that nobody have the ability to require operator to run service accord to timetable or shift timing . the move to franchising will allow local area to design such service and ensure that bus run when shift finish or college open or close . the new funding formula model will ensure that rural area get the funding they deserve . my right hon . friend will not be surprised to hear that I welcome the £ 124 million settlement for the south - east and the £ 23 million settlement for Kent , which represent the big proportion of any allocation in the south - east . it be strike that in the past 14 year there have be 20 % few bus mile in Kent because of the last Tory Government . will she join I in challenge Tory - run Kent county council to use this money and the power offer to it by this Labour Government to make well bus service for place such as East Thanet ? my hon . friend be a true champion for the people of Kent , and this be a record investment in they and their bus service . the area be badly underfunde by the previous Government and Kent lose out repeatedly in the bus service improvement process . the funding will help to deliver well bus service , but if Kent county council choose to avail itself of the power that will come its way as a result of next month ' s well bus Bill , then that will be the moment when it can deliver a public transport network and well bus service that serve all Kent constituent . I welcome today ' s statement . will the Secretary of State commit to ensure that funding will go to UK - base bus manufacturer , such as Wrightbus in Northern Ireland , which be reliable and efficient , and whose clean - energy bus meet the need of customer as well as our environmental obligation ? how will she ensure that we support the good of British ? I be delighted to announce half a billion pound of investment in Wrightbus just a few week ago . those bus will make their way around the country and be fully electric — clean , greener , and provide a well service for passenger . we will announce some measure shortly to encourage investment in UK - manufacture bus . we have already announce the establishment of an expert panel in order to ensure that bus order in this country be build in this country . I warmly welcome the announcement that over £ 40 million will be come to the East Midlands combine authority , which cover derbyshire and Nottinghamshire , for investment in our local bus . I know that Mayor Claire Ward and other local leader will spend that money very effectively . do the Secretary of State agree that this be an opportunity for people to get ahead in work , leisure and their social interaction , and will help we to get to net zero ? my hon . friend be right that this be a massive moment for the east midland , with the new mayoral authority and this record level of funding for bus service . of course the authority will go into the 2027 city region sustainable transport settlement round . bus be an enormous opportunity to meet all our mission . that be why I be pleased to work across Government on our mission board to ensure that bus contribute to both our growth mission and , crucially , our net zero mission . bus be essential in my constituency , which be why I be grateful to the Government for the £ 50 million invest in the West Midlands combine authority area . when operator cut service , such as the 46 bus that go through Hamstead in my constituency , it be devastating for the community . after decade of fail deregulation , I be grateful that the Government be turn the page . do the Secretary of State agree that it be much well for local leader to have control over local bus service ? my hon . friend be right : cut service such as the 46 have real - world implication for people attempt to access work , see their friend and family , or get to the local high street . have a franchised system under the Mayor , Richard Parker , will mean that he have control . he can contract out the 46 service and require an operator to run it . at the moment , when an operator cut a service we have no say or control over that , which be what lead to those terrible real - world consequence . I thank the Secretary of State for come to the Chamber personally to give that statement . Financial Services : Mansion House Speech Mr Speaker be very disappointed that the Chancellor of the Exchequer have not come to the House in person to update we on last Thursday ' s Mansion House speech , which include important new policy announcement on a range of issue , include the consolidation of local government pension fund . I be sure that member would have welcome the opportunity to question the Chancellor personally on it . Mr Speaker be very sorry that the Chancellor have not see fit to come here herself . I apologise on behalf of the Chancellor for the fact that she could not be here . if there be any specific question for she , I will ensure that she know what they be , and that she personally write to member . with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will update the House on the Government ' s work to support the growth of the UK economy . the financial service sector be the jewel in the crown of the UK economy , as I be sure everyone across the House will agree . it be one of our large and most successful sector , employ 1 . 2 million people and make up 9 % of gross value add , and the UK be the second large exporter of financial service in the G7 . on Thursday night at Mansion House , the Chancellor place the sector at the heart of the Government ' s growth mission and , build on the economic stability and public investment that the Budget provide early this year , she set out a plan for investment and reform of the sector . the plan build on the rapid work that the Government have already do to support the growth of the sector . one week into office , the Government welcome the big change in the UK ' s listing regime in more than three decade ; in our first month we launch the landmark pension review and in September we deliver the final stage of the post - crisis capital reform for bank , work closely with the Bank of England , strengthen our banking system while also protect lending to the wide economy . the package that the Chancellor set out at Mansion House build on those step , begin with a commitment to develop a comprehensive plan to grow our financial service sector . in spring next year , the Government will publish the first ever financial service growth and competitiveness strategy , give the financial service sector the confidence it need to invest in the long term by set out our plan for the sector over the next 10 year . publish alongside our modern industrial strategy , it will be clear - eyed about our strength , propose five priority growth opportunity : fintech , sustainable finance , asset management and wholesale service , insurance and reinsurance market , and capital market , co - design with voice across the financial service sector . from the base of long - term stability , the Chancellor also lay the foundation for get even more investment into our country . the Government have already confirm our plan to capitalise our flagship investment vehicle , the National Wealth Fund , to invest in the industry of the future . to support investment in our green industry , the Chancellor ' s speech confirm the Government ' s next step to deliver a world - lead sustainable finance framework . the Chancellor also set out our plan in another key area that I know have generate interest across the House : pension fund . the UK have one of the large pension market in the world , but pension capital be often not use enough to drive investment and growth in our economy . thank to the excellent work take forward by the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , the Chancellor announce the interim report of the pension investment review . the report set out our plan to harness the collective size of our pension fund to create large pool of capital for investment , support pension fund to invest at scale . to do that , we will deliver a significant consolidation of the define contribution market and the Local Government Pension Scheme in England and Wales , provide well outcome for saver while support investment for growth . indeed , we could unlock around £ 80 billion - worth for investment in private equity and infrastructure through those action alone , accord to domestic and international comparison . alongside economic stability and high level of investment , the Chancellor ' s Mansion House speech put reform at the heart of the Government ' s growth agenda . the Government ' s approach to regulation be a core part of that . across our economy , we will upgrade our regulatory regime , review the guidance we give to the Competition and Markets Authority and other major regulator to underline the importance of growth . that include our financial service regulator . while it be right that successive government make regulatory change after the global financial crisis to ensure that regulation keep pace with the global economy of the time , it be also important that we learn lesson from the past . those change have result in a system that seek to eliminate risk taking , and in some case they have have unintended consequence that we as a new Government must now address . regulation have cost as well as benefit . it have cost for firm when they be spend large sum on compliance and not use that money to innovate and to grow , and it can have cost for consumer , for example by restrict access to financial advice that could help they to plan for the future . while maintain important consumer protection and uphold international standard of regulation , we therefore feel that now be the moment to rebalance our approach and take forward the next stage of reform need to drive growth , competitiveness and investment . to support that aim , the Government issue new growth - focus remit letter to the financial service regulator to make clear that the Chancellor and I fully expect they to support the Government ' s mission on economic growth . the Financial Ombudsman Service play a vital role for consumer in get redress . that will not change , but reform be need to create a sure environment . we will work closely with the Financial Conduct Authority and the FOS to develop a new agreement between the two institution , with clear expectation on how they co - operate , include on historic market practice and mass redress event . the Government welcome the call for input that ask for view on how to improve the rule govern how the FOS operate . the Government ' s ambition for reform be much wide than regulation . build on our work to improve the UK ' s list regime , we be unlock funding for our capital market and legislate to establish , by 2025 , PISCES — the private intermittent security and capital exchange system — which be an innovative new stock market to support company to scale and grow . we be also support innovation in the financial service sector by launch a pilot to deliver a digital gilt instrument use distribute ledger technology , as my write statement set out . insurance market be pivotal to support growth and create resilience by help we to manage risk . the Government have launch a consultation on captive insurance , where a new approach could cement the UK ' s position as a lead financial service centre . as the House will know , this Government prioritise the growth of the mutual sector . we have launch a call for evidence on the credit union common bond , ask regulator to report on their mutual landscape to support their growth , and welcome the establishment of an industry - lead mutual and co - operative business council . the Chancellor also publish the national payment vision to set out the Government ' s ambition for this vital sector , ensure that our approach to regulation allow firm to grow and innovate , and include decisive action to progress open banking and to support our fantastic fintech business . finally , we be work with tech platform and telco network to reduce the scale of fraud originate on their platform . the Chancellor , the Home Secretary , and the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , have write to lead tech and telecom company , call on they to go far and fast , with clear action to reduce the level of fraudulent activity that exploit their platform and network . we will be monitor that closely in the come month . this be a significant package to support the growth of the financial service sector and invest in the wide economy . I have hear lot of murmur from Opposition Members while I have be speak , which I hope show their approval for our overall package . I look forward to work across the House to deliver these important reform from the first Labour Mansion House speech in 14 year . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement , and I congratulate the Chancellor , via the Economic Secretary , on her maiden speech to Mansion House . it have go down broadly very well , and we be pleased that she recognise the City for what it be . the Minister rightly point out that the UK host a competitive and global financial centre , but change to regulation must not be burdensome , and they must be work through properly with the industry . when and where the Government take step to enhance the performance of that sector , they can be guarantee of our support . as the Chancellor mention in her Mansion House speech , in a generous tribute to her predecessor , much of the regulation reform discuss today be start under a Conservative Chancellor . I therefore wish to put on record recognition for my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) and the work he do in that area . before I turn to the substance of the statement , inevitably I will talk about the Budget . it be worth remind the House of the most pressing part of the Chancellor ' s Budget , which she leave out of her Mansion House speech . in her speech she mention the word growth no few than 41 time , but we have to look at the fact . when the Conservatives leave government , we have the fast grow economy in the G7 , but now growth have halve . the Chancellor ' s increase in national insurance mean that business be pick up the tab to pay for Labour ' s open tap on spending . she will no doubt have read the letter send to she by 200 hospitality business , highlight job loss across their sector and a wide range of sector . despite all her talk about growth , business group and economist agree that Labour ' s approach to the Budget be choke the momentum of our economy . Britain deserve a Government who back growth , empower investment and deliver prosperity . I hope that the Minister today will admit to the british public that while she talk about growth , her party ' s plan to grow the economy fall short of an economic growth agenda . on the substance of the reform that the Minster have outline today , we believe that the objective that the Chancellor be attempt to achieve with her Mansion House reform be broadly the right one . first , it go without say that delivery of the reform that the Conservatives start in government be to be welcome , include the focus on growth ; my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) legislate to ensure that financial service and market regulation have a secondary growth duty . it be regrettable that the Government could not publish the final version of the pension investment review or the pension Bill in time to accompany this statement . as I turn to my question , I should make it abundantly clear to the Minister and the House that these reform must remain focused on deliver the good deal for pension saver . while additional investment be welcome , the pension market should not be treat as a Government cash cow for public investment if it lose sight of the paramount objective of deliver a secure return for saver . it be true that unlock great investment and deliver great return for pension saver can come together — both can happen at the same time — but I must push for the publication of the fine detail of this policy . the emphasis must still be on pension saver . while great investment and great return can come together , security in retirement be what the pension industry be all about . work to reconcile those two aim be further by my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash when he announce reform early this year , which include require pension fund to publicly disclose how much they invest in UK business compare with those overseas , and disallow scheme that perform poorly for saver from take on new business from employer . can the Minister confirm that those reform remain government policy , and that nothing she be announce today change those policy strand ? can the Minister set out a timeframe for the propose mega - fund ? some 86 local authority pension fund will be consolidate into just eight . what be the criterion on which the Government have choose eight ? why not one , 10 or 15 ? the Government note that the local government pension scheme in England and Wales have " asset … split across 86 different administering authority … with local government official and councillor manage each fund . " can the Minister clarify whether each of the 86 local government pension fund will have a stake in each of the eight mega - fund , or will they each be allocate to just one mega - fund , thereby possibly distort the risk profile of that pension fund ? the Government state that the consolidation into a handful of mega - fund will enable the fund to invest more in asset such as infrastructure . can the Minster confirm whether the " infrastructure " that the Government mention in their press release refer to both public and private infrastructure project ? on the topic of infrastructure , what be the expected return on government - own infrastructure project ? will pensioner ever be mandate to take low return to support the Government ' s investment objective ? the Minister with responsibility for pension , the hon . member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , who be in her place , give rise to some ambiguity about whether there will be mandate of pension fund investment in Government project in her Financial Times article this morning . furthermore , will the trustee oversee these mega - fund be restrict by the Government as to what they can invest in , or will they be free to choose their investment and risk profile ? the Government also state : " a new independent review process will be establish to ensure each of the 86 Administering Authorities be fit for purpose . " can the Minister give any further detail on that review ? who will be run it , for how long will it be run , and what be consider " fit for purpose " ? how many of these fund would have to be consider not fit for purpose for the Government to reconsider the number of mega - fund ? to conclude , we support what the Government be try to do with their reform , many of which be ours , but question remain about the detail of the policy . we will scrutinise the detail of the legislation when publish . I finish as I start — by say that the Government be talk about investment and growth , but have just deliver a budget that downgrade growth and crowd out business investment . those thing be not compatible , and we urge the Government to put forward a workable plan for growth . they must not rely solely on the financial service sector to bail they out . I thank the Opposition spokesperson for his comment . I think he welcome the news , although I be not quite sure . he speak a lot about the ex - Chancellor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , who do a lot of work in this space . I remind the House that the ex - Chancellor say that there be " much to welcome in the Chancellor ' s Mansion House speech today . " the Opposition have say that these be " broadly " good reform ; I think I would remind the Opposition spokesperson of that . I also remind he that we be not interested in stick - plaster politic . we have a long - term vision for the economy , which be why we be look at use the national wealth fund and the industrial strategy to ensure that we grow the economy . I will answer a few of the hon . Gentleman ' s question , but if I do not get to all his pension question , the Minister with responsibility for pension be happy to meet he . I point out that our public service be crumble , and that we inherit a £ 22 billion fiscal black hole from the previous Government . we have to make difficult choice to fix the foundation of the country and restore desperately need economic stability in order to allow business to thrive . he point out that hospitality business be contact he . More than half of employer will see either a cut to or no change in their national insurance bill . to support the hospitality industry , we be permanently cut business rate for retail , hospitality and leisure from 2026 . that come alongside a 40 % relief on business rate bill next year for thousand of premise . we be commit to deliver economic growth by boost investment and rebuild Britain , which be exactly what our Budget do . the interim report of the pension investment review , which the hon . Gentleman have a lot of question about , put forward proposal to drive scale and consolidation in the define contribution workplace market . the Local Government Pension Scheme be still consult . the final version will come out in spring next year , but as I say , the Minister for pension be happy to speak to he . there be international industry consensus that the scale and consolidation benefit investment and saver , and that these measure could unlock around £ 80 billion of productive investment . on the hon . Gentleman ' s question about the reform take autonomy away from local authority , under the proposal in the consultation , each administrate authority would retain control over the most impactful decision by set their investment objective and strategic asset allocation . the consultation propose that implementation of the choose strategy be delegate to investment expert in the asset pool , who be well place to execute the investment objective to meet the desire investment outcome . I hope that reassure he that we will not take autonomy away from the authority . the hon . Gentleman talk about the overall package of boost UK economic growth and benefit pension scheme member . the objective be complementary . drive consolidation and tackle waste in the pension system ensure that scheme can achieve the necessary economy of scale and efficiency to pursue diversified investment strategy . I reassure he that asset such as infrastructure and private equity be see as part of the balanced portfolio , and can enhance saver ' return . they will boost economic growth , so he do not need to worry about that , and we will benefit the community where pension saver live . the hon . Gentleman speak a lot about what the previous Government do . they talk a lot about pension , but they actually never do anything . we have show in the first few month of a new Labour Government that we mean business , and we have our action ready to go . by next spring , he will see the full detail in the Bill . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee , Dame Meg Hillier . I draw the House ' s attention to the fact that a family member work for Allied Irish Bank , and to the fact that I be a trustee of a pension fund . I want to ask my hon . friend about the remit letter for the Financial Conduct Authority . just as the pushmi - pullyu in " Dr Dolittle " do not know which way to go , there be a danger that if we try to pursue the secondary objective while protect consumer , consumer could lose out . could she set out clearly how she expect the FCA to ensure that it maintain its approach of protect consumer ? could she pick up on the comment from the hon . member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) about whether there will be any move to mandate pension fund to invest in UK infrastructure ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . on pension fund , we be not look at take that action right now , but I will let she know when we take further action . on the remit letter , we be commit to financial inclusion and to ensure that consumer be look after . that be why , in their remit letter , I have ask regulator to have regard to that , and why I have make it clear that our top priority be to promote growth and international competitiveness . the laser focus , in the remit letter , be on growth , but they be not intend to encompass the entire scope of the Government ' s vision for the sector . she should be in no doubt that consumer outcome be top of our agenda . I have make that clear in every meeting I have have with the regulator . I call Liberal Democrat spokesperson Daisy Cooper . we welcome any reform that will provide an effective route to growth without put undue pressure on people ' s saving , so we look forward to see more detail from the Government . in the meantime , I press Ministers on their broad goal of get investment in innovation . constituent in St Albans report that their small and medium - sized enterprise have invest in innovation . they have successfully apply for research and development tax credit , only for his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to claw they back . it be right that HMRC tackle error and fraud , but thank to conservative inaction , it be now widely accept that a number of sme be see their valid claim reject or withdraw , while other be simply not apply for the tax credit at all . will the Minister please conduct an urgent review of HMRC ' s approach , with a particular focus on whether it be undermine the growth and innovation of the SME sector ? I thank the hon . Lady for her comment . I will pass they on to the Financial Secretary to the Treasury , who will look into the matter . I be worried to hear what she say about sme ; she be absolutely right that they be the heart and soul of our economy — we should be look into that . I will ensure that he write to she , but if she need a further meeting , I be sure he will meet she . member from across the House have long call for financial regulation of " buy now , pay later " company . because of the delay in regulate those company , a third of people seek debt advice do so because of they . the Woolard report in 2021 identify the urgency of the FCA regulate the industry as soon as possible . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to regulate they , but I be bemuse , as many be , as to why it will take until 2026 for the regulation to take effect and for our constituent to be protect . everybody know that regulation need to happen , and what the regulation be , and the FCA have be wait since 2021 to do it — so why be we give these legal loan shark two Christmases - worth of present , and allow they to exploit our vulnerable constituent in this cost of living crisis ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . she have do an enormous amount of work in this area , and I applaud she for that . she be instrumental in the Government take our initial step to regulate the " buy now , pay later " sector . there be a need for " buy now , pay later " during a cost of living crisis , and people will access those company ' product , but I have bring this under FCA control so far , and have regulate to ensure that it be safe , and that people do not store up a huge amount of debt that they can not pay back . the consultation be open until 29 November , and I ask she to urge other to feed into it to ensure that we get this policy right ; that be not do by the previous Government . I will bring forward legislation as quickly as possible , but I think it be important to hear what people and the industry have to say , because we want to regulate properly . she be be patient , and I ask she to be a bit more patient ; our intention be to make the sector as well regulate as possible under the FCA . I warmly welcome much of what be announce last week — the work on listing , mutual and the remit refresh — but I say to the hon . Lady and the Minister for pension that there be considerable reticence in the pension industry when it come to many of the driver of change highlight last week . we need a complete cultural shift and change in appetite from those who lead the pension industry . I urge she to keep under review the fiscal incentive , and the transparency and accountability rule , so that we can see the performance gap that result from not make some of these change . I look sympathetically on the aspiration that she have set out today , and I wish she well as she move forward with these critical change , which should have a lot of support from across the House . I know that the right hon . Member do a huge amount of work in the financial service sector while he be in office . the civil servant still talk about how amazing he be — much to my dismay sometimes ! we agree that there need to be a change in appetite in this place . transparency be top of the list , as the Minister for Pensions just whisper in my ear . we thank the right hon . member for his constructive approach on the review , and urge he to tell the people he know in the sector to respond to and feed in to the consultation . the Minister will know that investment in our energy system be vital to our mission of be a clean energy superpower , create job and cheap , clean and more secure home - grow energy to power our economy . what be she do to ensure that financial service regulator support the Government ' s mission while uphold high industry standard ? I know that my hon . friend take a keen interest in this area — she be talk about it for the 25 year that I have know she . we agree that it be important . the FCA and the PRA be require to have regard to the UK ' s net zero emission target , as set out in the Climate Change Act 2008 . the Mansion House speech set out the Government ' s next step to deliver a world - lead sustainable finance framework . that will be a huge part of our financial service strategy , as part of the industrial strategy , next spring . I urge she to consult and feed in on that . I speak as a former trustee of a local authority pension fund . much of the correspondence that I receive from pension fund member be not about the return that they receive , but about the investment they be in but could not choose to come out of because it be a define benefit scheme . I appreciate that the review be ongoing , but can the Minister confirm that any review will consider retain the autonomy of local authority in decide not to invest — whether in company , country or sector — for environmental , social and governance reason ? the consultation be ongoing , but I repeat that each administer authority will retain control over impactful decision by set out investment objective and strategic asset allocation , and they will have control over their pool asset . the Minister for Pensions will be happy to meet the hon . Lady should she wish to discuss that far . as the hon . Lady say herself , the consultation be ongoing , so she may wish to wait until after it be complete . I declare an interest as a proud Labour and Co - operative MP . it be great to see the Chancellor outline the ambition to grow the co - op and mutual sector and to see regulator come forward in that work . be there a timeframe for that process ? as the Minister say , to ensure the growth of the UK economy , we need rich and diverse growth in the mutual and co - operative sector as well . as my hon . Friend say , she stand on a ticket as a Labour and Co - operative Member of Parliament , and she have do a lot of work in that area . last week , the Chancellor set out multiple new measure to unlock the full potential of the mutual sector , as we outline in our manifesto . that include publish a call for evidence and reform the credit union common bond , and ask the pra and the FCA to report on the current mutual landscape by the end of 2025 . I declare an interest as a trustee of the parliamentary pension scheme . there be a lot to welcome in the Chancellor ' s Mansion House speech , a lot of which be take from the Mansion House and Edinburgh reform of the previous Chancellor . I particularly welcome the increase in access to financial advice that the Minister have say she be take forward . can the Minister confirm the end of the senior manager regime in the City , which I believe be in the Chancellor ' s speech , and if that be the case , how do she plan to take it forward and will it require primary legislation ? the Government will consult on replace the certification regime , and will seek the view of industry and all interested stakeholder in do so . we be work closely with the PRA and the FCA on that . if the hon . Lady mean certification of the senior manager regime , we be keep that under review at the moment , but it be not mention in the way that she think it be . before the election , Labour set out plan to grow the mutual sector in our " Financing Growth " report , which be welcome across the sector . in fact , my local credit union , the Caledonian Credit Union , welcome the report — I declare an interest , because I be now a member of that credit union after I visit . I welcome the setting up of the mutual and co - operative business council . will the Minister explain how that will drive growth in the sector ? as my hon . friend know , the Mansion House speech set out multiple new measure to unlock the full potential of the mutual sector . as he say , we welcome the establishment of an industry mutual and co - operative business council , alongside our delivery of legislation to support the building society sector last month . we want to ensure , through those measure , that the sector can grow , and to support inclusive growth across the UK . in the few month that I have hold this position , the main complaint in the mutual and co - operative sector seem to be that it be difficult to operate within the current regulatory framework , as it be not set up to support mutual and co - op in the way it support other business , so I be look at that . I be very happy to continue that conversation , but this be about consider the regulatory framework to ensure that it be for fit for purpose in double the mutual sector , which be a commitment in our manifesto . in her Mansion House speech , the Chancellor announce that we would change the emphasis of regulation from risk to growth . the FCA and PRA have effectively regulate the London market into terminal decline , embed stonewall philosophy and diversity , equity and inclusion into financial regulation , start with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 . that be follow by the market in financial instrument directive I and II , which import EU regulation into the London market , prioritise a european bank lending model over our equity capital market tradition . give that regulator can not regulate for growth , the only solution be to disband the FCA and PRA , and return to the light - touch regulation under the Bank of England that secure London ' s position as a vibrant capital market until 2000 . could the Minister explain with clarity the Government ' s strategy of regulate for growth , which appear to I to be an oxymoron ? our regulator do a very good job , and we be lucky to have they , but we will hold they to account . when the Chancellor talk about risk taking , she be say that the post - financial crisis regulatory change create a system that seek to eliminate risk , but which have go too far and lead to unintended consequence . for example , the certification regime have help to improve standard and accountability , but some element have become overly costly and administratively burdensome . that be what we be look at . get rid of the regulator be not the way to grow the economy . hold they to account , and consider how we increase risk take in our system , be the way in which this Government will approach thing . as a long - term member of the NHS Scotland credit union , I know the importance of have community and workplace - base saving and lending provision , which be much more accessible for people on low income than buy now , pay later . however , it have become much more challenging for the sector to operate beyond the common bond . what be the Minister do to ensure that credit union be able not only to compete with the wide financial sector , but to thrive in those circumstance ? I absolutely share my hon . friend ' s enthusiasm for credit union — I have visit those in my constituency several time and know what good work they do . we have make clear our strong support for the mutual sector . we recognise the value that credit union bring to their member in local community , include in her constituency . the Chancellor launch a call for evidence on reform the credit union common bond during the Mansion House speech last week . we want to understand whether reform be need in that space to help credit union to grow substantially . once we have complete the call for evidence , we will consider how much of that reform we can take forward as a Labour Government . the Pensions Minister will be all too aware of the ongoing problem face member of the west midland pension fund , one of the country ' s large public sector pension fund . why do the Economic Secretary think that the Chancellor ' s eight mega - fund will provide a well service than the west midland pension fund in invest those people ' s pension ? we will build on the success of the pool that already exist . if the hon . Gentleman be not satisfied with my answer , the Minister for Pensions be happy to meet with he . much like my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , I be a proud member of the Co - operative party , so to have so much co - operative and mutual content in the Mansion House speech , the new co - operative and mutual business council in particular , be music to my ear . will the Minister say a little more about how she anticipate that Ministers will interact with the new business council ? will her Treasury colleague consider new financial instrument to help co - operative and mutual meet the growth that they know be available to they ? I know that my hon . friend be an active member of the co - operative and mutual movement . the Government have already take the first step , with two statutory instrument lay on 14 October . we be committed to progress the remain change to the Building Societies Act 1986 follow Royal Assent of the Building Societies Act 1986 ( Amendment ) Act 2024 . I will look at further si to try to further the work here , but I want to support the industry - lead council , and I welcome the opportunity to work with it and discuss and test policy proposal with representative and expert from across the sector . I know that view be share across the Treasury , include by the Chancellor , who ask about it this morning in our ministerial meeting . invest in small pension fund be boring , because it be risk - averse , safe for beneficiary and principally concentrated in this country . while investment in UK start - up and tech through venture capital and other vehicle be to be warmly welcome , if it happen , there be nevertheless a very real risk that fund will simply be invest overseas , and the Canada experience suggest that that may very well be the case . what assessment have the Treasury make of the extent to which the small pension fund that the Minister envisage be amalgamate will simply have their capital and investment lodge overseas in the tech and start - up company of other country and deprive our own of the same ? we be look at a diverse portfolio of asset , and the pension fund mention by the right hon . Gentleman have already pool and be invest in the UK . Bournemouth be a wonderful place to represent for lot of reason ; one very good reason be the presence of a large finance sector . we have JP Morgan and Nationwide building society , which I be pleased to visit recently and hear from about its aspiration . over the last 14 year , that sector on the south coast have be starve , so what step will the Minister and this Government will take to support coastal finance hub ? moreover , I recognise that her diary will be quite book up , but can I invite she to come to Bournemouth and meet with representative of those firm ? if she do , I be happy to buy she an ice cream . my hon . friend will know that I can never resist an ice cream , so I probably will visit after all . place such as JP Morgan , which employ 4 , 000 people in the financial service industry , be vital to we . one of the thing that the Chancellor ' s speech build on be the significant step that the Government be already take to enhance the competitiveness of our financial service sector . we want to look at the big change to the UK ' s listing regime in more than three decade and — my hon . friend will be familiar with this — deliver the final stage of the post - crisis capital reform to bank . with our financial service growth and competitiveness strategy , which I hope my hon . friend will write to we on , we want to give the industry certainty and the confidence to invest . that be the main thing that the financial service sector want right now , and people in Bournemouth will probably agree with that . I look forward to that ice cream . I thank the Minister for her statement . we must welcome the news that London edge close to New York as a financial hub . however , the Minister be aware that growth happen only if we attract investment . I believe that the decision to pool pension fund into large investment vehicle be a bold one , yet the Chancellor must ensure that guarantee be in place , so that the mega - pool of pension do not go down the drain , and that guardrail be in place to safeguard the nation ' s pension pot . I reassure the hon . Gentleman that boost return for saver be at the very heart of this agenda , which be why we be pursue this pension review . we want these reform to increase security and boost people ' s pension pot , and we want to unlock about £ 80 billion of productive investment . the Government ' s reform be already in the pension scheme Bill , and they could boost a typical define contribution saver ' s lifetime pension pot by £ 11 , 000 . I do not want the hon . gentleman to worry , because we have our eye on how to protect pensioner and saver . in my constituency of Mansfield , our member - own mutual organisation , Mansfield building society , provide essential banking service . it be a significant local employer and invest in project to support my community . what be the Minister do to unlock the full potential of the sector and organisation such as Mansfield building society ? I have already mention our first step with the two si lay on 14 October , which try to modernise the Building Societies Act , and I be happy to send my hon . friend further information on that . the main thing we will do be carefully consider the finding of the Law Commission review to understand whether reform of the legislation be need to ensure that business be well support and grow more in the future . the response to the call for evidence will be carefully consider by myself and other , and any potential reform will require formal consultation . I want to make sure that my hon . friend know that at the top of our agenda be try to unlock the full potential of this important sector after 14 year of that not have happen . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for share her statement and welcome the support that it have gather from across the House . however , I note that the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) mention concern about pension . member will , of course , remember that it be the Conservatives who cause chaos in the market with their mini - Budget , put all our pension at risk . what will the Government do to ensure financial stability and make sure that there can be no repeat of the chaos that they cause ? my hon . friend know this area well , have work in the Treasury in a former life . we will absolutely make sure that we avoid the mistake of a certain Liz Truss and work very closely with the TPR and the FCA to deliver all our reform and ensure that we do not make any decision that shake the stability of the economy , because we want to have a stable financial service sector and a stable economy to encourage investment and ultimately deliver on our growth mission . portsmouth people welcome the national wealth fund , the industrial strategy and the Chancellor ' s Mansion House speech , as well as the stability that it offer our country and its much - need economic growth . do the Minister agree , though , that consumer protection be a vital issue that we must ensure do not get lose in our growth strategy ? will she say what the Government be do on this agenda to ensure that ? consumer protection be at the heart of anything that we do in financial service . as well as be a Minister , I be a constituency MP ; every time I have one of my surgery , I hear about people who have be either a victim of fraud or take out a buy now , pay later product without realise the consequence . we want to give enhanced consumer protection to people through the Financial Ombudsman Service , but we be very aware that it need to be reform , which be why the Chancellor mention it over and over in her speech . we plan to introduce legislation on that as soon as possible , because we want to deliver well protection for million of consumer after year of uncertainty . I be also make progress on financial inclusion at the moment , and I can send my hon . friend more information on that if she want . we be set up a financial inclusion committee , which be meet next week , and I be happy to let my hon . friend know what we be do in that to protect consumer . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you for provide time for this important question . last Thursday in this place , during an urgent question to the Minister for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) begin a tirade against the Scottish Government at Holyrood . worse still , the Minister echo she in respond . in my humble opinion , that be a waste of valuable ministerial time during a Westminster urgent question . this place be increasingly see such political posturing when we be try to honestly and earnestly deal with Westminster business , not devolve Holyrood business . I believe that the responsibility for this charade lie directly with Government Whips , who be continuously plant question with Back Benchers . be it in order during urgent question to Ministers for Government Back Benchers — and , indeed , Government Ministers — to raise matter that be completely devolve to the Scottish Parliament and unrelated to the urgent question at hand ? I thank the hon . member for his point of order , and for give advance notice of it . he will be aware that there be no general rule against member refer to matter that be devolve to Scotland . there be some restriction on the tabling of question on devolved matter , but those restriction be far from absolute . question that relate to various matter , include those in which UK Ministers have take an official interest , be permit . more generally , as ever , what right hon . and hon . member may say in the House be subject to the discretion of the Chair . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on Thursday 14 November , I table a uq that be successful . in a supplementary question , the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull East ( Karl Turner ) say that he be disappoint , " to put it mildly " , that I be unable to mention any of the funding that the Government have put into the NHS . in the two minute that I speak , I mention that fund three time . I have since write to the hon . member to make he aware of that . he have apologise ; however , I look for your guidance on how he may correct the record . I be grateful to the hon . member for have give notice of his point of order . as he well know , the Chair be not responsible for the accuracy of hon . member ’ speech , but he have put his point on the record and confirm that he have write to the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull East . I be sure that settle the matter . Armed Forces Commissioner Bill Second read [ relevant document : correspondence from the Defence Committee to the Secretary of State for Defence , on the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill , report to the House on 14 November 2024 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . today , the Government take a major step to strengthen support for our armed force and the family who stand behind they . the first duty of any Government be to keep our nation safe , and at the heart of that security be the man and woman of our armed force . in this role , I have the privilege of meet many of those man and woman who serve proudly , here in the UK and around the world . I see at first hand their dedication and professionalism and some of the extraordinary sacrifice they make in defence of our nation — from the 700 personnel who rapidly deploy to Cyprus over the summer to support our contingency planning for the safety of UK national in Lebanon , to the 140 Royal Navy submariner who I meet recently at Faslane as they complete the final leg of their sea patrol . I have to apologise that mine be the first face they see upon arrive home after so many month . on all side of the House , we thank those man and woman for such service . I know , too , that all member will join I in recognise that when we talk about love one away from home — a spouse or parent who may be deploy at a moment ' s notice to another part of the UK or the world — we be talk about sacrifice that be make not only by those in uniform , but by the family member who support they . we can not say enough that our force ' family live their life in service to the nation . as such , the Bill before the House establish an independent Armed Forces Commissioner to improve service life for our serve personnel and their family . that be significant and long overdue . I thank the Secretary of State for give way , and welcome his Armed Forces Commissioner Bill . as he have rightly point out , the Bill will allow our brave service personnel and their family to make complaint to the commissioner , but that right have not be give to bereave family member . can he reassure I and the House that bereaved family will also be give that right ? I can indeed . our definition of " relevant family member " , which be on the face of the Bill , will include bereaved family . of course , the other group exclude from that provision be veteran — I speak as a veteran . why be the Secretary of State not concerned about they ? should they not come under the auspex of this new official too ? an example might be those who be expose to potential contaminant at Camp Lejeune in the US . that be a thematic investigation that the new commissioner might undertake . our first priority be those who serve and their family — those who be subject to service law . the range of agency and service that support veteran be very different . a well way of improve support for veteran will be to fully implement the armed force covenant in law , as well as the range of step that the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , have already start to take . we have take the view that the commissioner establish by this Bill will give their first priority and full focus to those who be serve , as well as their family , who be also impact by their service life . as I have say , this Bill be significant and long overdue . it be long overdue because the force have be badly let down for the past 14 year . the Conservatives have create a crisis in recruitment , retention and morale . last year , the train strength of the armed force fall at the fast rate for a decade — with 300 more personnel leave than join every month — and service morale fall to its low level on record . only four in 10 of our force personnel report be satisfied with service life . they report that the impact on family and on personal life be the lead factor influence their decision to leave . the Secretary of State will know that while the previous Government systematically fail , community around the country do their good to support serve personnel and their family through military covenant . some do that really well , while other do not . could the Secretary of State say a little more about what role he see for covenant in the work of the Armed Forces Commissioner , to ensure that commitment make in good faith by agency around the country be deliver on so that serve personnel and their family can have easy , more rewarding life ? the covenant set out the important principle that no one who be serve , or who have serve , should be disadvantage by that service . that be why , as an Opposition party before the election , Labour support the then Government in their partial translation of the covenant into law . the job be only half do , and we will complete it . we aim to do so through the armed force Bill that be to come , but although the role of the commissioner will exist in the context of the covenant , they will draw their power from the legislation before the House . their role will be define in this legislation , and they will become a powerful independent voice for those who serve and the family who stand behind they . both our force and their family have be fail for too long . that be why the Government be determined to renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve . it be why the Government be put people at the heart of our defence plan , and why I be now introduce this legislation as a priority in the first legislative Session of this Government . we can not reverse those deep - set problem overnight , but our mission be to lift military morale , and in these first four month we have be get on with that job . we be invest in our servicemen and woman , give they the high pay rise for over 20 year . we be put force family first , expand childcare for force family overseas . we be start to fix force recruitment with new recruitment target , cut red tape and a new direct cyber - route to recruit into the armed force . we be also improve service life by introduce this Bill in Parliament to establish the Armed Forces Commissioner — a Government deliver for defence and deliver our manifesto commitment to establish that commissioner as an independent champion for our force and their family to improve service life . the commissioner will be a direct point of contact for serve personnel and their family , who will be able to raise concern that may impact on their service life and their ability to serve : everything from kit to food , housing , medical care , study programme , promotion , childcare and support for spouse in work . the role be inspire by the long - establish german parliamentary commissioner for the armed force , which enjoy cross - party support in the Bundestag and support across the military . Dr Eva H ö gl , the current commissioner in Germany , tell I : " since 1959 , the year the german commissioner be first establish , it have become well recognise , respected and unchallenged as an institution in Germany , safeguard the basic right of our soldier . " she go on to say : " I would be delighted if this success story be to be repeat in the UK . " that be exactly what we aim to do . the commissioner will have the necessary access to personnel , information and defence site . they will have the power to hear directly from service personnel and family member on their concern connect with their service , and the power to investigate individual concern and launch wide - range thematic investigation into those issue that materially impact personnel and family of the force . they will have the power to demand access to information to facilitate their investigation and access to service premise — and in the UK to make those visit unannounced . how do the Secretary of State envisage the commissioner stand alongside other in the armed force in term of the chain of command ? have an assessment be make on that ? the commissioner will be independent and separate from the chain of command , with power that do not depend on or account to the chain of command in any way . they will have the power to make recommendation to improve service life and to set out the finding of their investigation in report to be lay before Parliament . their annual report will be an independent report to Parliament on the state of the force and what we must do to improve our offer as a Government and as a nation to those who serve . it be my intention that a debate on that report become a regular part of the parliamentary calendar each and every year . the commissioner and their report will challenge Ministers , will strengthen parliamentary oversight and will raise awareness of the issue face our force . the commissioner will be subject to pre - appointment scrutiny by the Commons Defence Committee . the Secretary of State be be generous with his time . I note from the Bill that there be no prospect of approval be seek from the cross - party Defence Committee , although , as the Secretary of State just allude to , there will be a pre - appointment hearing . will he give I and the House an undertaking that if the Committee have concern , he will listen closely to our recommendation and take action accordingly ? I be grateful to the Select Committee ' s Chair for intervene on this point . the legislation and what I propose reflect the current arrangement and practice in Parliament . I be keen that the Committee exercise the tough pre - appointment scrutiny — we need to appoint somebody who can do the job as a fearless , independent champion — and I will certainly listen closely to and take close note of the Committee ' s view in any pre - appointment hearing . the Bill also provide for the commissioner to absorb the exist power of the Service Complaints Ombudsman . of course , the ombudsman ' s role be too narrow : it be entirely reactive , it can consider formal individual grievance only after the service complaint system have be complete , and then it can judge only whether that process have be reasonable . I expect that the Armed Forces Commissioner will challenge we to do well in the service complaint system and widely across service life . I expect that the commissioner will develop strong view on improve the service complaint system , and I believe that the future Armed Forces Bill will offer we the right opportunity for that , should primary legislation be require . this be landmark legislation to establish an independent Armed Forces Commissioner with the mission to improve service life . there will be , for the first time , a champion for our armed force ; for the first time , a champion for force family ; and for the first time , a champion with serious power to access every part of service life , who will report in public to Parliament . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . at all time , and on both side of the House , we should want to ensure that our armed force have our back and that their morale and the offer from the MOD be as strong as possible . the opposition recognise that the Bill introduce a manifesto commitment for which the Government have a clear mandate and , moreover , that it create a new mechanism by which the MOD intend to boost the day - to - day experience of our armed force personnel . no one could disagree with that goal . while it remain to be see exactly how the Bill will deliver in practice , we will not oppose it but will be a constructive , critical friend , because the least that those who bravely put their life on the line to defend our country deserve be proper scrutiny from Parliament in matter of legislation and the armed force . of course , there be area of welfare not directly affect by the Bill where we want to see further progress , but , in term of the Bill ' s provision , we wish to probe a number of matter . at face value , there be clearly merit in seek to ensure extra accountability for how welfare matter be conduct in the force . I note in particular , as the Secretary of State just stress , that the commissioner will explicitly not be draw from the rank of either the military or the civil service , precisely in order to deliver genuine independence . in many way , that provision be not dissimilar to the principle that I want to see in the integrate procurement model back in February , with the idea of a second opinion in procurement , not least from the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory and the science base — the point be to ensure that major procurement programme and the requirement request from the single service could similarly be subject to genuine challenge and transparency . after all , the Sheldon inquiry focus on transparency and openness as key tool to guard against the bad culture that can pertain without confidence for military personnel and official to come forward and air their concern — what we call be " psychologically confident " . therefore , in principle , the proposal appear to be consistent with the push for a more transparent culture in defence that make it hard to hide embed problem . the most serious such example could include the issue raise by the Lyons Review and the Defence Committee ' s " woman in the Armed Forces " report , as refer to at oral question early by the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) . as such , if the new office of the commissioner genuinely expose cultural weakness and hide systemic problem that would otherwise not have be disclose or would take long to emerge , it should be welcome . that say , such extra transparency can not be at the expense of operational effectiveness . that be why one of the most significant issue that we will want to probe far be the interaction between the commissioner and the chain of command , especially in sensitive operational setting . the Bill state that visit will not be permit on national security ground , but what if the commissioner and the chain of command disagree on whether those ground apply ? will the Secretary of State adjudicate ? if so , how will that work in practice ? as my hon . friend the Member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) allude to in his early oral question , how will such visit work in practice without disrupt live operation ? we must have clarity . off the back of the Armed Forces ( Service Complaints and Financial Assistance ) Act 2015 , the previous Government do much work to reduce bureaucracy , shorten the complaint process and strengthen oversight . it be important that that be not undermine through the organisational upheaval that the Bill will inevitably generate . what step will the Government take to ensure a smooth handover , especially in relation to exist casework ? a few of our colleague have experience that recently . on the territorial application of the Bill , as thing stand there be a permissive extent clause that enable an order in Council to provide for relevant section of the legislation to extend to the Channel Islands , the Isle of Man or any of the british overseas territory except Gibraltar . first , what be the rationale for apparently exclude Gibraltar ? secondly , what of the US visit force ? as Minister for Defence Procurement with responsibility for the estate , I visit both Lakenheath and Mildenhall in my county of Suffolk , where there be a significant presence of US force , F - 35s and F - 15s . I have the pleasure of meet the then command officer , Major General Campo . there be a significant number of infrastructure , planning and other matter where , inevitably , the USVF need clearance and input from the UK MOD . what will the Commissioner ' s responsibility be in relation to USVF , particularly where british personnel be station alongside they ? similarly , what about the personnel of the many nation assist with training Ukrainians for Operation Interflex on the UK basis ? my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) make a very good intervention . we agree that we want to question the point about veteran , and we will probe that in Committee . finally , on cost , we note that the Department expect the annual cost of the commissioner to be high than that of the current ombudsman , and overall in the region of £ 5 million . do the Secretary of State anticipate that the cost will grow far and above that estimation in the year ahead , as the commissioner become more established ? more broadly , we know that many issue affect morale , recruitment and retention in the armed force . we want the Bill to succeed , but there remain a number of area of concern where deliver a well offer to our service personnel be critical . on recruitment and retention , hopefully all hon . member understand the critical importance of boarding school to service family , and that there be very few place not in the independent sector . boarding school provide stability for their child in a career that do not automatically lend itself to such . yet family affect by vat on school fee will not find out until December exactly how they will be hit by a tax that commence the very next month . let we remember that many such family do not receive continuity of education allowance , and will have to cover a 20 % hike in fee from their tax income . that be why the opposition want the type of vat exemption for all child of service family that be offer to child with special educational need and disability with an education , health and care plan . do my hon . friend agree that it be just not fair on the small business that be independent school , such as Warminster School in my constituency , which traditionally have take a significant number of service pupil , to have that level of uncertainty about what the school roll will look like in January ? that be an excellent point . I pay tribute to those sort of school and how they share in society ' s commitment to our armed force . it have be labour policy since the 2017 general election — seven and a half year ago — to introduce vat on school fee . family who have personnel serve abroad this Christmas will have just December to deal with whatever those new fee mean for they . that be a shockingly short amount of notice . on pay , we agree that those who serve their country must be appropriately reward , which be why in 2023 we announce a core armed force pay rise of 5 % , plus a far consolidated increase of £ 1 , 000 , equate to a rise of approximately 9 . 7 % for the most junior rank , and include a freeze in food charge . alongside pay , accommodation be an important part of the offer from the MOD . we all accept that much more need to be do , and presumably that will form a key focus for the commissioner . I stand by what I say in the Remembrance debate : the problem be the underlie structural nature of so much of the accommodation in the defence estate . for that reason , as a Minister I want to see we potentially buy back the defence estate in England and Wales from Annington , so that we could plan a full rebuild and regeneration of the estate — the long - term solution that I think the Veterans Minister refer to early . I hope the Government will take that work forward , but I appreciate that it be highly legally and commercially sensitive , and there be a limit to what they can say on that . as for the short term , the lesson from our winter plan last year be that investment and a plan for the defence estate can still yield result . early on as the Minister responsible for the estate , in 2023 , I accept that the previous winter we have let down service family , and with the backing of Ben Wallace and then Grant Shapps , we secure £ 400 million in the defence Command Paper refresh , and deliver a winter plan that see thousand of home treat for issue such as damp and mould . complaint to contractor fall sharply between 2022 and winter 2023 . that bring I to the final critical point — funding . the new commissioner will almost certainly be assail with accommodation case , but any report that he produce will inevitably form one conclusion : there be a need for more investment in the estate , at a time when there be many other compete priority . the £ 400 million that we announce require we to make choice about spending , and to prioritise accommodation and the welfare of personnel over other pull on funding . it be incredibly important that the Government commit to spending 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence as soon as possible . the Secretary of State will inevitably say that the last time we reach 2 . 5 % be in 2010 . I could as easily say that the last time we reach 3 % be in 1996 . they be two point on a pathway of consistently fall spending since the cold war , because successive government believe , like many around the world , that we be in a more peaceful era . that be a statement of fact . the point be that welfare in the military be about we as a nation and a Government say to those who serve , " we have your back . " that be impossible without more funding , and that mean set a definitive date for get to 2 . 5 % . the conservative party will always support the welfare of service personnel . that be why we will try to work constructively with the Government on the Bill . we will not be divide the House this evening . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . no one could argue with the honourable intent of the Bill : to improve service life . that be why there be widespread support for its main proposal , an enhanced role with new investigative power . the Service Complaints Ombudsman and her predecessor have both call for power along those very line . this be a commitment in the manifesto on which my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and I stand for election . the Defence Committee publish a letter last Thursday set out our initial thought on the Bill , to inform the House ' s scrutiny today . we have hope to have time to take account of the view of representative of armed force community , as well as the Service Complaints Ombudsman , but the pace of event make that impossible . as a result , at this stage , my remark contain more question than conclusion . if the Government be to be judge by their own success criterion , the two key question for the House be these . first , how far will the Bill go towards improve service life ? secondly , be the commissioner establish by the Bill give the right power , protection and resource to act as the strong , independent champion that our gallant armed force and their family deserve , and that the Government have promise ? on behalf of the Defence Committee , I ask the Minister for the Armed Forces to address in his wind - up speech the point that we raise in our letter , in addition to those that the Defence Secretary outline early . what be the Government ' s priority for improve the service complaint system ? it be strike that the Bill contain only one change to the system , when successive ombudsman have find that the system as a whole be not efficient , effective and fair . to bring the Bill to life , can the Minister draw to the House ' s attention example of time when the power to conduct investigation on general service matter would have improve service life , if it have exist at that time ? it would be helpful if the Minister could clarify , as far as possible , who will be able to ask the commissioner , under clause 4 , to investigate a " general welfare service matter " . will that include member of the reserve force , family member of reservist , former partner and spouse of serve personnel , and — the Secretary of State have , thankfully , already provide clarification on this — bereaved service family ? this be a matter of interest and concern to representative of armed force community such as the Royal British Legion . the independence of the commissioner will be crucial in maintain the confidence and trust of the armed force community . I be listen carefully to what the hon . Gentleman have to say . may I tempt he to agree with I that the Armed Forces Commissioner should have his or her power extend to veteran , on the ground that a lot of the theme that he or she would look at would be hybrid matter that affect both the veteran community and those currently serve ? at the risk of be accuse of be a one - trick pony , may I suggest that the Camp Lejeune case exemplify that point ? I would never accuse my right hon . friend of be a one - trick pony . he tempt I , but I would like to consider that point about veteran , reserve force and so on in Committee and thereafter . the german armed force commissioner — the inspiration behind the Bill , as the Secretary of State highlight — be entirely independent of the German Defence Ministry and armed force , but that be not the case for the commissioner under the Bill . the Secretary of State will appoint and be able to dismiss . the Secretary of State will fund the commissioner and agree their staffing arrangement — I be very grateful to the Minister for his briefing this morning at the Ministry of Defence , at which I be able to highlight some of my initial concern — and the Secretary of State will be able to constrain the exercise of the commissioner ' s power on broad ground of national security and personal safety . so when minister describe the propose Armed Forces Commissioner as independent , they must surely mean something else . can my hon . friend the Minister explain exactly what ? and can he tell we why he have not decide to go far in ensure the independence of the commissioner from his Department ? can he also explain how the commissioner ' s resource requirement have be estimate , what the process would be if the commissioner ask for additional resource , and who would find out and how if the commissioner be deny resource they have request ? the Bill arrive during a crisis in armed force recruitment and retention , at a time when there be high level of dissatisfaction with service life , and an unacceptable level of inappropriate behaviour in the armed force . the Defence Committee will be delve into that in great detail . the Bill can not solve those challenge on its own . it would be helpful to hear from the Minister exactly where the Bill sit within a coherent strategy and a set of broad measure , so that the House can consider the Bill in context . expectation of the new Armed Forces Commissioner will be high . they will need to be a strong character , with the good interest of the armed force in mind . they will need to be prepare for question and challenge , but also to understand , win support , and change heart and mind . their success will likely ultimately depend on the support and trust of the armed force , include the chain of command . what kind of person do the Government imagine fill the role ? how , if at all , will the key requirement of the role differ from those for the Service Complaints Ombudsman ? I appreciate that I have ask a lot of question of the Minister , but he be a very capable individual and he have be take copious note . no doubt he will be able to answer all my question in his speech . my Defence Committee colleague and I warmly welcome the Government ' s intention of allow the Committee to conduct a non - bind pre - appointment hearing with the Secretary of State ' s preferred candidate for the role . as the Secretary of State highlight , that be in line with practice for the appointment of the Service Complaints Ombudsman . the Defence Committee have always offer both support and scrutiny to the ombudsman , and we look forward to work closely with the new commissioner . they will , I hope , become a regular witness before the Committee . I hope that the Government will ensure the smooth possible transition between the two role . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . today , I speak for my party in support of the legislation before we . it be clear that the armed force community have be let down , not least under the previous Conservative Government . the finding of recent report and survey be testament to that . in 2023 , the Haythornthwaite report find that the most common reason for leave the armed force be the impact on family and personal life . overall satisfaction with service life be at just 45 % . only just over a third of personnel report that they feel value by the service . the Atherton report find that " the MoD and the Services be fail to protect female personnel and to help servicewoman achieve their full potential " . it be unacceptable that the experience of woman in the armed force , and the challenge that many female personnel face , such as sexual harassment and discrimination , have not be properly address . armed force family be also too frequently be let down . in the armed force continuous attitude survey , one third of spouse say that they would be happy if their partner choose to leave the service . service family be too frequently unable to get basic support , such as access to information , except through the member of the family who serve . the complaint system be not work . in her most recent annual report to Parliament , the Service Complaints Ombudsman , Mariette Hughes , be scathing about it ; she remain " unable to say that the Service Complaints system be efficient , effective or fair " . that be the eighth consecutive year that she have reach that assessment . woman remain disproportionately represent in the complaint system . those who serve in the armed force , and their family , be put their life on the line for our country . it be profoundly disappointing that report after report make it clear that they have be , and continue to be , neglect , ignore and take for grant . they deserve well . deliver a fair deal for the armed force community be not just the right thing to do ; it be crucial for our national security . the condition that service personnel and their family endure contribute directly to the crisis in recruitment and retention that our armed force be experience . in an increasingly insecure world , with Putin ' s troop wage their illegal war in Ukraine and Trump about to return to the White House , we can not afford to not take this issue seriously . the Liberal Democrats very much welcome the Bill . we welcome the fact that the commissioner will be a much - need point of contact for armed force family ; will be a public champion for family , have be task in law with raise awareness of the welfare issue face by the armed force community ; and will be properly empower to independently investigate complaint — for example , they can arrive on site without notice . we be pleased that the legislation have be introduce to Parliament less than six month after the election . we will support the Bill , and we will work with member on all side of the House to strengthen it during its passage through this House . I thank the Service Complaints Ombudsman and her office for the work that they have do since 2015 , offer independent insight into process and highlight the failing of the complaint system . it be right for the work of the office to be subsume into this strong role , but as the ombudsman make clear , further work need to be do to bring the service complaint system up to standard . I would have like this legislation to be use to set that in motion . we must ensure that the Bill deliver for armed force family . family be at the heart of the Bill , and will clearly be of significant importance to the work of the new commissioner , but clause 4 leave the definition of " family member " up to the Secretary of State . we hope that during the passage of the Bill , the Government will commit to a definition in the Bill , so that there be certainty for armed force family . it be important that we ensure that family make up of kinship carer — there be often aunt and uncle who care for niece or nephew — be in scope of the definition . we must also think of divorced partner who be still affect . it be vital , too , that bereaved family come in scope of the definition , and accordingly the work of the commissioner . I hope that member from across the House agree that bereaved family need the advocacy of the new commissioner as much as , if not more than , anyone else in the armed force community . we also need to ensure that reservist and recruit have equal access to the commissioner . as for female , black and minority ethic , non - UK and LGBTQ + personnel , the Government must ensure that the commissioner ' s office be equip with up - to - date evidence and community connection to identify issue and be able to reach into those community . it be to that advocacy role that I now turn . clause 1 make clear that the role of the commissioner will be not just to promote the welfare of service personnel and their family , but to improve the public ' s awareness of welfare issue experience by armed force family . I hope that the Minister will be able to shed some light on how the Government envisage the interaction of those two separate function in practice . the crucial issue be resource — we need to ensure that both those ambition can be meet , as well as the exist responsibility of the ombudsman role which be be subsume into the commissioner ' s remit — and I urge the Government to offer assurance on that front . I also hope that the Minister will be able to offer further clarification of the appointment process , as well as subsequent timescale for get the commissioner ' s office up and run . the Government have commit to pre - appointment scrutiny of the preferred candidate by the Defence Committee , but what happen if the Select Committee disagree ? clearly , whoever be appoint to this role must be truly independent of Government . under the previous Conservative Government we see the limitation of the exist public appointment process , even when Select Committees be involve . give relevant Committees a confirmatory vote would greatly strengthen the safeguard in the appointment process , and would ensure that the good person for the job be put forward , rather than the good person for the Government . can the Minister also clarify how the commissioner will interact with the exist Veterans Commissioners for Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland , and the propose national veteran ' commissioner for England ? the Armed Forces Commissioner must prioritise accessibility to the community that he or she aim to represent and support . we must ensure that if access be digital only , that do not create a barrier if , for example , people be deploy or have a low reading age . it be vital that our armed force know who they can turn to for support when they need it . military personnel be train to be resilient and endure tough condition , and the culture do not make it easy for people to reach out ; I have personal experience of that . if we be to introduce an Armed Forces Commissioner , the Government must include an effort for culture change as well , and I would welcome a great understanding of how they will achieve that . I understand that people who have serve in the armed force may be consider for this position . such people could bring valuable knowledge and insight , but how will the Government ensure that they be sufficiently remove from the current culture to bring an independent perspective ? it be also vital that , while welcome the creation of this new role , we acknowledge that it will in no way be a silver bullet to address the many problem face the armed force community , which I have mention and which have be touch on by other member . to deal with serious complaint , for instance , we need to strengthen rule to help support whistleblower across Government , and the Liberal Democrats continue to support the creation of an office of the whistleblower for that purpose . we urge the Government to go far and fully implement the Atherton report , to ensure that woman in the armed force , who have be let down far too frequently , receive the fundamental protection that they deserve . we should also look at strengthen the armed force covenant . will the commissioner ' s role include give due regard to the covenant , and will the Minister agree to strengthen the covenant by place a legal duty on all Departments to give due regard to it ? we will continue to present proposal to improve the quality of life for service personnel and their family . there be basic step that we can and should take , such as establish a one - stop shop for family of service personnel so they can easily gain access to information , include the publication of a guide and an accessible helpline . housing be also hugely important : service personnel and their family should be able to live in a decent home . I pay tribute to the work of my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , who have campaign for a decent home standard for military housing , and I hope that when the Renters ' Rights Bill come back to the House for its remain stage , the Government will listen to liberal Democrat representation on the need to enshrine that in law . the armed force community deserve a fair deal . the Liberal Democrats support these measure as a step in the right direction , but we will continue to call on the Government to do more to ensure that service personnel and their family be no long take for grant . I welcome the Bill : it be great news . I leave full - time service only last year , and it be fantastic to see the pledge that I hope the Government would fulfil be bring — I hope — into law . I first encounter these proposal last year when we be join by Eva H ö gl , the german armed force commissioner , in the House for a panel event , only a couple of week after I have leave full - time service and only one week after my selection as the labour parliamentary candidate for Plymouth Moor View . it be an exciting moment , but the appointment of an Armed Forces Commissioner seem very far away . it seem to be something very positive that the Germans have and that we should have , but to do it would require a Labour Government , and we do not know when the election would be . all that have now come about : we have that Labour Government and we be commit to deliver an Armed Forces Commissioner , and it be great that we be do so . I commend the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats for the way in which they be approach the Bill , and for the collegiate atmosphere . I know I speak for many Labour colleague when I say that matter relate to the welfare of the armed force and veteran be over - politicise in this country , and approach they as one House be extremely positive . I hope that the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) will be encourage by the extent to which the Labour party be hold up the german commissioner as a model . for one thing , Eva H ö gl be a woman , and for another , she have not serve in the military . I be sure that those point will be take into consideration when the Government make their appointment . as the Bill make clear , one of the commissioner ' s aim will be to promote the welfare of serve personnel and their family , include , as have be mention , bereaved family . another — the second of the function list in the Bill — be to improve " the public ' s understanding of the welfare issue face " by serve personnel . that be an excellent step , because it will deal with something that hold back serve people , particularly those who be draft into a new community — anyone who have be in the military will have experience this — where they have no root lay down . they be at the mercy of whatever their camp or base can provide . it may be possible for they to obtain military housing in the area , but they may be on camp . beyond that , they can play a part in local politic and local government , whether it be a parish council or a town council . it can be very challenging for serve personnel to understand and communicate with local government , and I be pleased to hear member say that many council have run positive scheme involve armed force champion and their own armed force covenant . in Plymouth — which I represent along with the Minister for the Armed Forces , my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) — we have a fantastic Plymouth City Council armed force champion scheme . if member do not know about it , I urge they to look at it , because I know from speak to resident that it have have a massive effect for veteran and serve personnel . one of the question that the Government will face in respect of the Bill be " what be the relationship between the armed force commissioner and local government — and , as a third party , the tri - service military ? " yes , listening be important , but do be also important . we need to understand how the commissioner can bring about solution and outcome for resident and , obviously , for serve personnel . the Chair of the Defence Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , mention reservist , and I know that they have be mention before . when we look closely at the Bill , however , we see that anyone who be subject to " service law " , or military law , will be entitle to access to the armed force commissioner . reservist — and , as of last year , I be a proud Royal Marines reservist — be subject to military law when they be serve , but not when they be not on duty . that need to be clarify . to maximise reservist ' output , which I know the Ministry of Defence be keen to do , we must ensure that they feel wrap up in the system , not just operationally and not just in training , but in that welfare sense . when will they have access to the commissioner ? will it just be on a Wednesday night when they be in their detachment , or will it be throughout the week ? obviously the answer should be " throughout the week " , and I urge the Govt to commit themselves to that . finally , I want to commend the Secretary of State , who have briefly leave the Chamber . in the military , people be often teach about have the courage of their conviction . have an armed force commissioner who will report to Parliament annually will not be easy for the Secretary of State , because the commissioner be unlikely to report solely good finding every year ; in fact , quite the opposite . he or she will probably point out the thing that we need to be do . that be good , because it be the sign of a strong , confident leadership that we be willing to appoint people who will point out flaw in the system that will be difficult and potentially expensive to solve . all in all , I massively welcome the concept of an Armed Forces Commissioner , and the Bill . there be some detailed question to which we would love to know the answer , and I look forward to hear those in due course . it be encouraging to see cross - party support for the Bill , and it be a real pleasure to be in the Chamber this evening with all four former Royal Marines who have come into Parliament in 2024 . I welcome the Bill . we all share the same goal of improve the welfare and support of those who serve in our armed force and their family . the creation of an independent Armed Forces Commissioner be a positive step towards provide personnel with a direct point of contact to raise concern and ensure that issue affect service life be investigate and report to Parliament . however , it be crucial that we critically examine the Bill to ensure that it effectively meet the need of our armed force community . the armed force play an essential role in protect our nation , and we must ensure that they be equip , support and staff with the good talent . have see at first hand the dedication of service personnel at the Commando Training Centre Royal Marines in my constituency , I understand the commitment of our servicemen and woman . however , recruitment and retention be fall short . recent datum from the Ministry of Defence reveal a troubling trend : last year , the Royal Navy meet just 60 % of its recruitment target , the Army 63 % and the Royal Air Force 70 % . those significant shortfall underscore the urgent need to enhance the overall offer to our armed force , to ensure that we can attract and retain the talented individual essential to safeguard our nation . that be why we be take a bipartisan approach to the Bill . we all agree that improve the welfare of our armed force be essential , and we will work with the Government to ensure that the Bill achieve that aim . recruitment be only part of the challenge ; retention be just as critical . in the year to October 2023 , 16 , 200 personnel leave the armed force , while only 10 , 400 join . that exodus of skilled personnel put the very strength of our military at risk . at the heart of the retention challenge lie the offer to our service personnel . I serve across tri - service unit , and I see that offer at first hand during the last Labour Government and subsequent government up to 2015 . although personally I never find an issue and love my service , as I have become old I have see friend who have remain in service do the normal thing that we do in life — get marry , start family and move to family home — and witness the additional pressure that they have face . I have hear of the challenge with housing not be up to par . I know that many of we in the Chamber believe that quality housing and a work - life balance directly impact the desire of service personnel to stay in the military . we must always ensure that our personnel be properly look after and that their condition reflect the importance of the role they play . until we address these issue comprehensively , the retention of talented personnel will continue to be a significant challenge . it be no secret that since the fall of the Berlin wall , we have all benefit from the peace dividend derive from a unipolar world , which have allow we to prioritise government spending in area outside defence . however , we all know the international threat that we face , and it be essential that our armed force be in a position to do what they have do well for hundred of year : defend our country and our interest abroad . it be essential that we focus on the Bill ' s fine detail to ensure that it deliver real improvement . important question about the scope , resource and independence of the commissioner will need address in order to guarantee that this new office will provide tangible improvement for our service member and that the Bill will result in a strong , more support armed force , equip to retain the good talent to serve our nation . the commissioner ' s role must be clearly define to avoid overlap with exist military structure . while the Bill grant the commissioner the power to investigate welfare matter , it be crucial that that role do not encroach on area of military discipline or law . the commissioner should complement , not replace , exist military mechanism , provide an additional layer of support for personnel when necessary . other member have make the point this evening that establish the rank or grade of the commissioner be essential . we must ensure that the commissioner hold a senior position , but one that respect the operational command and discipline of the armed force . although the commissioner will be independent in nature , they will operate in a rank - structured environment , so it be important to establish the grade at which they will be see among high - rank military official . it be also crucial that the commissioner remain entirely independent of both the Government and the party in power . that independence must be safeguard not only in the commissioner ' s decision making , but in their ability to hold the Government of the day to account without fear or favour . it will be important for the Labour party to set out during our scrutiny of the Bill how that independence will be maintain , and it will be beneficial for the House to understand what commissioner - lead ministerial scrutiny look like . the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , make the point about security and classification . the commissioner will be grant significant power to access Ministry of Defence site and document , but it be vital that those power be carefully control to prevent any potential compromise of national security or operational integrity . access to sensitive or operational information should be tightly restrict and permit only when necessary for investigate welfare issue . the Secretary of State must retain discretion to limit access where national security be concern , follow strict security protocol to safeguard both personnel welfare and military operation . while the commissioner can investigate welfare matter , it be important that their role do not extend to interfere with military discipline or operational matter . investigation relate to military conduct should remain under the purview of military law . the commissioner ' s involvement in relation to wide - range welfare concern or legal matter should be well understand , and we must ensure that there be clear boundary to avoid disrupt the military ' s ability to function effectively . it be nice to see that the Royal British Legion have lend its support to the Bill — I fully endorse that . I be fully committed to ensure that the Bill be successfully implement , but the RBL have raise several important concern that must be address to ensure that the Armed Forces Commissioner function effectively . give the RBL ' s extensive knowledge and expertise , those concern deserve careful consideration before the Bill ' s final implementation . the RBL have highlight that we must ensure that the commissioner be accessible to all service personnel — another point that have be raise this evening — regardless of their digital literacy or deployment circumstance . rely solely on digital communication risk exclude those with limited access to technology or low digital skill , and those serve in area with poor connectivity . to address that , we must ensure that alternative method of communication , such as phone line or in - person support , be available . the RBL have also propose an anonymous reporting mechanism , similar to crimestopper , to encourage personnel to raise concern with confidence and security . while the potential for anonymity to increase reporting be clear , it be vital to strike a balance that allow the commissioner to follow up on complaint and conduct thorough investigation when necessary . another point that the RBL have make be that service member may view raise concern as part of their job or feel that they should handle issue on their own . for the commissioner to be effective , it be important to shift how raise concern be perceive . the commissioner ' s role should help foster an environment in which report issue be recognise as a positive and constructive step , essential to the continuous improvement of the service and the wellbeing of personnel . achieve this will require a focused effort to encourage service member to seek support when need , without hesitation . the Bill rightly extend the scope of support to service personnel and their family , but it be essential that that support encompass all part of the wide armed force community , include reservist , recruit and veteran , who each face unique challenge and should not be overlook . reservist often juggle civilian career with military duty — we hear from the hon . member for Plymouth Moor View ( Fred Thomas ) about some of the problem with that — and may encounter different support need from regular personnel . similarly , recruit , who be at the beginning of their service journey , require guidance and resource to ensure a smooth transition into military life . veteran , have serve our country , must continue to have access to appropriate support long after they leave active duty . by ensure that the commissioner ' s office cover all those group , we can create a truly comprehensive and inclusive support structure that meet the need of every individual who have commit to serve our nation . my constituent Major Charles Milroy , who serve for a long time in the reserve , point out that on deployment it be often difficult for the reserve to access the support in place for serve personnel . do my hon . and gallant Friend agree that it might help if the commissioner could look into that aspect of military life ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that concern . that issue definitely need to be draw out during the later stage of the Bill to ensure that everyone across the armed force community — regular , reservist and veteran — be listen to by the commissioner . I think everyone in the House agree that the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill be a positive step towards improve the welfare of our service personnel , but as we move forward it be crucial that we carefully examine its detail to ensure that it effectively address the need of the entire armed force community . from define the commissioner ' s role to ensure broad and equitable access , we must make sure that this Bill deliver real , tangible improvement . only by get these detail right can we strengthen our armed force , ensure the retention of our good talent and continue to support those who selflessly serve our country . we must work together in a bipartisan spirit to make this Bill a success and give our armed force the recognition and support they truly deserve . it be a great honour to speak in this debate , and I welcome the bipartisan tone and constructive approach take by the Opposition party in their contribution . it be fitting that we be debate this Bill for the first time so soon after the remembrance event hold over the last few week . the member of our armed force who put their life on the line for the safety and security of our country and our people give the great service it be possible to give . over 5 % of the adult population of my constituency of North Durham have serve in our armed force . as someone from a civilian background , I pay tribute to every one of our man and woman in uniform , include the many hon . and gallant Members on both side of this House who have serve . the Bill be a key part of renew the nation ' s contract with our armed force because for too long , morale and satisfaction with service life among our armed force have be fall . accord to the late armed force continuous attitude survey , nearly six in 10 personnel rate their service morale as " low " , and this figure have sadly be increase for the last few year . just one in 10 personnel rate their service morale as " high " and a third of personnel do not feel value . we know that service life impact not just those in uniform but their family , too . whether it relate to housing , employment or the effect on their child , military spouse often have a negative view of the impact that service life be have on they and their family . that be why it be so important that this Bill will create the first ever independent champion , not just for serve personnel but for their family . the Bill be not only about the welfare of those who serve today ; it be about make service life more attractive so that our rate of recruitment and retention in the armed force improve . we currently have the Service Complaints Ombudsman , establish by the Armed Forces ( Service Complaints and Financial Assistance ) Act 2015 — but , as the Secretary of State say , their remit be too narrow and reactive . the ombudsman can investigate individual complaint only after the service complaint process have finish , and they do not have the remit to consider broad matter impact the welfare of serve personnel . replace the ombudsman with a new Armed Forces Commissioner who can launch their own investigation and make broad recommendation be therefore a positive step forward . indeed , that have be call for by successive Service Complaints Ombudsmen themselves . a new Armed Forces Commissioner will give service personnel and their family a direct contact to reach out to , in order to raise issue that impact service life , from equipment to accommodation and unacceptable behaviour . I note that the Government expect the budget for the Armed Forces Commissioner to be between £ 4 . 5 million and £ 5 . 5 million a year . the german armed force commissioner — the role on which the Secretary of State have say this new role be base — have 60 parliamentary staff to support they . I would be grateful if the Minister outline how many staff he envisage the UK Armed Forces Commissioner have . the Defence Committee have raise question about how we can ensure that the commissioner be truly independent from the Secretary of State , and I would welcome further clarity on that . the Bill fulfil the commitment in our manifesto to introduce an Armed Forces Commissioner . it acknowledge the need for change to well support serve personnel , with new power to carry out investigation , visit defence site unannounced and report to Parliament . the role outline in the Bill will clearly have a great impact than the exist arrangement , to the benefit of service personnel and their family and ultimately , therefore , to the benefit of the morale and the retention rate of the armed force and the defence of the country . it be another action towards fulfil the Government ' s commitment to renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve , and I therefore welcome the Bill . it be interesting to be take part in a debate that have such an outbreak of consensus — indeed , it be a bit unsettling in this particular Chamber . however , the Scottish National party will be do nothing to rock the boat give that we welcome the role of Armed Forces Commissioner , especially their authority to investigate welfare complaint from our armed force . this have be a long time come . the welcome superseding of the Service Complaints Ombudsman with a vital element that allow servicemen and woman recourse to a function complaint system outwith the chain of command be only go to be good news , and will be in step with the ambition of many right hon . and hon . member . I take this opportunity to commend the foresight of my friend and colleague , the former Member for West Dunbartonshire , Martin Docherty - Hughes , who bring forward his Armed Forces Representative Body Bill in 2019 . if that Bill have be support , it would have achieve many of the same aim as this Bill but five year early . nevertheless , a key development now be the ability of the commissioner to visit defence establishment unannounced and commission report on what they find there . that be a central and vital improvement over the demonstrably inadequate power of the ombudsman . the report will face the scrutiny of colleague in this Chamber and of the Defence Committee , which be welcome . I know that that scrutiny will be apply with rigour . the Bill should go a long way towards shine a light on the manifold circumstance in which many in our armed force and their family have be treat poorly by successive UK government . much of that have be cause by disastrous privatisation misadventure pursue for short - term gain at the expense of long - term value ; our man and woman in uniform , together with their family , pay the price for that suboptimal policy in their daily life and routine . we should also note that the issue face armed force personnel be already extremely well know , document and understand within and outwith this Chamber . what the commissioner must reveal , therefore , be the depth and scale of these issue . as have already be touch on , that will necessarily make difficult reading for the ministerial team . I salute their ability to leave themselves open to that scrutiny . a key factor drive the poor experience of armed force personnel be the perpetual misallocation of funding and a lack of political will to establish a verifiable balance between the demand of the state on the armed force to deliver defence and security , and the vote of funding allocate to the armed force by the same state to deliver against that priority . everything have an upper elastic limit , and if the government do not get their act together on allocate 2 . 5 % of gdp for defence , I greatly fear that our armed force will exceed their upper limit very soon — commissioner or not . from the junior rank to the Chief of the Defence Staff , they be ask for nothing other than long - term clarity to allow they to deliver long - term stability . a key performance indicator of any large organisation , especially one with such an unenviable relationship with recruitment and retention , be morale . that be a key reason why people be leave in such huge number , at tremendous cost to defence in financial and operational way . the solution to many of these problem be fairly straightforward , but expensive . they include properly maintain housing stock , well mental health support , well support for family when people be deploy , and decent pay — all of which be outwith the remit of any commissioner . the Bill represent a welcome stride forward , but it be no silver bullet to fix life in the UK armed force . as we have already hear , almost 60 % of personnel report low morale . only a third be satisfied with the welfare support that their family receive when they return from deployment , and many personnel live in poor accommodation . perhaps most importantly for the commissioner , only 23 % of serve personnel think that leader will take meaningful action to address issue identify in the continuous attitude survey . that be not a great report card for this or the previous Government , but it be certainly a starter for 10 for the commissioner . would the hon . gentleman like to welcome the 20 hour of wraparound childcare for service personnel serve overseas that the Government announce this weekend , which will save serve family £ 3 , 400 ? yes . what ' s not to like ? I be very happy to support that . I have two question that I hope the Minister will address in his sum up . will the commissioner have the power to investigate the challenge face by serve personnel within the nuclear enterprise , or will personnel in this service have to continue to suffer in secret ? Scotland , as usual , be out in front with our veteran commissioner , so what learning will the UK commissioner for serve personnel be able to take from their scottish counterpart ? how do the Minister envisage the commissioner work together ? moreover , give that Wales and Northern Ireland also have veteran commissioner , and that the commissioner propose by the Bill will not have responsibility for veteran across the United Kingdom , what be the timeframe for veteran in England to enjoy the same benefit as those in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland ? I call Alison Hume to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an honour to be call to make my maiden speech during this important debate . I would like to pay tribute to the armed force personnel and veteran who live in the Scarborough and whitby constituency . each year , Scarborough honour their sacrifice and service on Armed Forces Day . the splendid parade marche past scarborough lifeboat station , where this year the Royal National Lifeboat Institution celebrate 200 year of service . back in 1861 , a massive storm destroy nearly 200 ship off the east coast . at Whitby lifeboat station , Henry Freeman be the only volunteer to survive the disaster , thank to the new design of lifejacket he be wear , make from strip of cork sew into a canvas vest . incredible design be in the weft and weave of Whitby . twice a year , Whitby Goth Weekend welcome thousand of well - dress goth who paint the town red — and purple and black . goth regularly inquire whether Dracula be bury in Whitby abbey or the churchyard . he be not . in fact , Dracula be the relatively recent creation of Bram Stoker , a victorian theatre manager and author who find inspiration for his blood - suck vampire when he stay in Whitby , travel there on the newly develop railway . our railway be still associate with horror story , but today it be more about nightmare journey . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Sir Robert Goodwill and Lawrie Quinn , for their work to improve local connectivity . Sir Robert serve our constituency for 19 year . he dedicate himself to give a strong voice to people who struggle to be hear , and he help to improve the life of many resident , particularly in land management , local healthcare and road safety . on behalf of the community , I place on record my sincere thank for his long year of faithful service , and I wish he and his wife , Maureen , a happy retirement . Sir Robert ' s Labour predecessor , Lawrie Quinn , be fondly remember by constituent , particularly for help to secure the award - win Coastliner bus with its magnificent view . after today ' s announcement , we can look forward to more bus , and well bus , in Scarborough and Whitby . opposite Scarborough station stand the Stephen Joseph theatre , the theatrical home of one of our fine living playwright , Sir Alan Ayckbourn , the jewel in our creative crown . our stunning constituency cover 285 square mile . the beauty of our sweeping coastline and purple - top moor have be capture in many television drama and film . Goathland sit in the heart of the glorious North York Moors national park , with a station on the pretty Esk Valley railway . it have double both as Aidensfield station in " Heartbeat " and as Hogsmeade station , from where Harry Potter catch a steam train to his school for wizard . while we be on wizardry , I would like to thank the House of Commons staff for make we fresher feel so welcome , and especially for not laugh as I circle endlessly through the various corridor , absolutely convince that , just as with Hogwarts , nothing ever seem to be in the same place as it be the time before . talented young people in coastal town surely deserve the same opportunity in the creative industry as their peer in the city . I will work hard to bring these opportunity to Scarborough and whitby , and to attract investment for training and skill in the industry of the future . at its headquarters in Scarborough , Alexander Dennis — formerly Plaxton — be lead the way with its innovative electric bus . we be also uniquely position to benefit from the vast wind farm be build off our coast , but we must move quickly to ensure that our town can service the green energy industry . as the turbine turn , we need to take care that our fragile but precious inshore fishing industry be support into a sustainable future . our fishing town and village serve up so much more than the good fish and chip in the country . we have a delicious combination of tradition and innovation . herring be still smoke traditionally by five generation of the Fortune family to produce the famous Whitby kipper , which my late father adore . as the lobster export capital of Europe , Yorkshire be indebted to the parent and carer of thousand of baby lobster nurture at the Whitby lobster hatchery . Scarborough be the country ' s frozen chip capital , home to McCain Foods , and it be also home to SeaGrown , the first seaweed farm in Europe . as for our traditional farmer , I understand that this be a difficult time for they . I be recently delighted to visit the Low Yedmandale and Spikers Hill farm outside Scarborough to well understand the challenge face by our family farm . time be tough for far too many constituent . I thank the numerous organisation and charity dedicate to make life well , include the Gallows Close centre , the Rainbow centre , Westway Open Arms , Flowergate Hall , the Eastside community centre , Closer Communities , Dalewood Trust , WHISH — Whitby Hidden Impairment Support and help — and many other , too numerous to mention . I be honour to represent such a resilient and hard - work community , and I believe we be a good fit . my late mother be bear into poverty in Hull . under a Labour Government , she be able to retrain for free as a mature student to become a primary school teacher — a job she love . my son Edward be bear with complex disability . under a Labour Government , we benefit from the huge investment in health , in education and in scheme such as sure Start . at 25 , Edward have finally achieve his dream of go to university , and today he be watch his mum achieve hers . under this Labour Government , I will play my part as we lift more child out of poverty , address the crisis in special educational need and disability provision , and improve life for pay and unpaid carer . I truly hope that I can repay the trust that my constituent have put in I . in closing , as the first woman to represent Scarborough and Whitby , I pledge to play my part in our Government ' s mission to halve violence against woman and girl . as a proud graduate of the Jo Cox Women in Leadership scheme , I hope to honour Jo ' s memory . I can see her coat of arm from where I stand . she may not have sit on the Government Benches , but she leave a legacy that will ensure that hundred more woman like I will sit on they in the future . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) . with name like Hume , I presume that she must have some northern irish ancestry . I congratulate she on a superb maiden speech . her constituent will be extremely proud of her contribution . we look forward to hear a whole lot more from she in the future . I have a special interest in Whitby and Scarborough , simply because it be " Heartbeat " territory . I be from the generation that can remember all the song from the 1960 , which be probably why I start to watch that programme . it be a pleasure to hear from the hon . Lady . I know the right honourable Gentleman who represent the constituency before she , and I know that he will be just as pleased as the rest of we that she be here . it be a pleasure to participate in the debate . I declare an interest as I serve in the Ulster Defence Regiment for three year , and in the Royal Artillery and Territorial Army for 11 and a half year . I be invest , as be all member who have serve in the armed force , as well as those who have not , in the legislation before we . I be minded of the ten of thousand — probably hundred of thousand — of people who have serve in the armed force in Northern Ireland . I be pleased to see the Minister for the Armed Forces in his place . I do not want to give he a big head , but whenever the Minister bring something to the Chamber , he always ask for our opinion and contribution , which mean a lot to mps . it be the honest way of do thing , and I thank he for that . early on , the Secretary of State rightly say that this be " landmark legislation " . I think every hon . member will greatly welcome it . I welcome the fact that the legislation will apply to Northern Ireland , something that we in Northern Ireland do not take for grant when it come to the armed force and what appear to be an appeasement of those who hate those armed force in Northern Ireland . for the record , I commend Councillor Trevor Cummings , the veteran champion for Ards and North Down borough council , in my constituency of Strangford , on his great work and his interest in Army and police issue . he will welcome this legislation , just as I welcome it . we look forward to it be implement in Northern Ireland to the same extent that it be implement in England . I be pleased that respect and access to armed force personnel support will be available , unlike access to the military covenant , which my party have to fight to see implement in any form for our veteran . for too long , veteran in Northern Ireland have be treat as second class citizen , shame for simply do their duty . I hope this legislation signal a new approach to veteran in Northern Ireland . I ask the Minister a question in Defence question early , and he come back with a very positive answer . I hope he will be able to repeat his answer , so that it be record in Hansard and will provide reassurance to people back home . I would like clarity about how the commissioner will ensure that those serve in all part of the United Kingdom be treat equitably in the exercise of the new commissioner ' s function . I receive a positive answer from the Minister when I ask that question early . give Northern Ireland ' s disproportionate contribution to reserve force , we have a particular interest in ensure that the commissioner provide an effective outlet for member of our armed force and their family — it be important that we have that . how will the commissioner ' s remit interact with the armed force covenant , which be there before ? there be some difficulty with that covenant , but I be encourage by this legislation and I hope we will welcome the Bill ' s Third reading before too long . I be pleased that in the King ' s Speech , there be recognition of the gratitude owe to those who have make sacrifice for our freedom and liberty . today , we be here to scrutinise the outworking of that gratitude . in my opinion , that be not extravagant or groundbreaking , and a proper service should always have be deliver to those whose quality of life have be impact by their service . in common with many other hon . member , I know too many veteran whose internal scar from service have preclude they from keep relationship with their family , keep steady job or building friendship with people who simply can not understand what they have be through . many of those proud man and woman would never apply for help , or complain about the lack of support that they have receive . I welcome the fact that family member can now advocate to the Armed Forces Commissioner for service for a veteran ; that be a massive step forward for veteran and their entire family unit . it be good news . where we have see difficulty before , we can see positive , go forward , which be good . I hope that part of the role of the Armed Forces Commissioner will be to ensure that veteran have an accessible route to support that will skip the red tape and arrive at a sensible approach . it be important that if a service member retire or leave service while the commissioner be still process a complaint , it be effectively transfer to the Northern Ireland Veterans Commissioner . will the Minister tell we where that will fit into the process ? a join - up approach be important , so I seek assurance that that will happen . the Minister for Veterans and People be not in his place , but I know that he will be back shortly . I have invite he to visit the beyond the Battlefield veteran centre in Portavogie in my constituency . both the Minister for the Armed Forces and the Veterans Minister know it well , and I hope that the Veterans Minister will visit in the near future . the centre be design and build with short - term respite for veteran in mind . it be a place for veteran and their family to come to for a break , with counselling service available , and for a change , to enjoy the peaceful and restful environment of the incomparable Ards peninsula , where I happen to live . the centre be excellent and be up and run . Harbour House provide shelter to ex - service personnel who be homeless or suffer from post - traumatic stress disorder . the centre do an excellent job , for which we be very grateful . beyond the Battlefield , a charity that help serve and retire member of the service community , transform a once derelict building into a dedicated veteran centre . the charity provide practical help and advice on issue such as PTSD , war pension , benefit , housing , medal and funeral . I have be pleased , privileged and honour to work alongside the charity ' s staff to help veteran move forward and make their life well . enter Harbour House , veteran come into a welcoming reception area with tea and coffee making facility , and there be 10 bedroom suite . the charity do a phenomenal job . there be plan to extend the facility , and I be sure that the Veterans Minister will be ask about that when he visit . the previous Government have hope to provide some funding . I do not want the charity to have to come to the Government cap in hand , but it want to do what it do well , and to add to what it have in place . those 10 bedroom suite be full all the time , but the building could be extend to increase its capacity — and it would still be full . in Northern Ireland , we have a commitment to service . we never need conscription in Northern Ireland because we be always able to get volunteer . when the Veterans Minister come , we will show he the phenomenal job that beyond the Battlefield be do . it have a coffee shop that be open to the public , which help to meet people ' s need and be well support , but central funding be severely lacking . it be the only veteran respite centre in Northern Ireland . its importance can not be sufficiently underline . it serve and look after veteran from the six county , and probably far afield . beyond the Battlefield can not secure funding , and rely on charitable fundraising . if someone want a cup of coffee or a meal , Harbour House have be commend for its food . there be scope for more room to be create , and more good work to be do . the installation of the armed force commissioner have be endorse and support by everybody , because it be the right thing to do , and will be good for everyone across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . it will provide great focus on the need of our armed force and veteran , and I believe that support for project such as beyond the Battlefield will naturally flow from it . I again thank the hon . member for Scarborough and whitby for set the scene for this young man to make his contribution . she be the star ; I be just a follower . Most of we in this House attend remembrance service last week . we be all aware of the debt that we owe to not simply those who give their life in the world war , but all those who have serve — in guerrilla warfare from Afghanistan to Armagh , and from Erbil to Enniskillen . the debt be not pay in one day , with the recitation of a poem — I do not mean that disrespectfully — but through living and breathing . I hope that the creation of this post will breathe fresh air into the obligation that we have to those who offer we their all ; I be convinced that it will . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) on her excellent and evocative speech . I remember those sweeping coastline and purple - top moor ; I use to fly over they in my RAF C - 130 . she will be an excellent advocate for her community and all those who come up behind she in the Jo Cox Foundation . our force can defend our country effectively only if the bond of trust between service people and leader be strong . I welcome the Government ' s action on our manifesto commitment to establish an armed force commissioner and fix the complaint system , which have be break for many year . action be urgently need . confidence in the service complaint system remain low , despite the work that the Service Complaints Ombudsman have do . the ombudsman herself have conclude , every year for the last eight year , that the system do not operate in an efficient , effective or fair way . in what other area of public life would such sustained failure be allow to persist ? fundamental issue need to be address that go beyond performance standard on individual complaint . the big problem with the current system be that it individualise complaint and encourage mediation in each instance . in my experience , that can result in abusive or incompetent individual remain in place and perpetuate harm over many year , even though they have have many complaint against they . surely we can learn the lesson from the Letby case , police disciplinary case and similar case of very public systemic failure over recent year . the commissioner need to be empower to seek out the big picture and the pattern behind individual complaint , and escalate they proportionately . as we know , often a small number of individual wreak enormous damage on not only their many victim but the organisation as a whole because of the hostile and discriminatory environment that they create . only system that proactively identify pattern of behaviour and root out abuser will deliver a safe and fairer place for everyone in our force community . the commissioner ' s work need to form a normal part of service life . service people rarely want to be see as a whistleblower . rightly or wrongly , many do not want to go outside the system , due to perception of let the force down , so we need to be clear that when someone communicate with the commissioner about their experience , they be stay within the armed force community , and act in the good interest of all our armed force . at the same time , we need people to have confidence that their communication will be secure , and that they will be protect from any possibility of reprisal . I hope that the Minister will tell we more about how the Government see such communication with the commissioner compare with whistleblowing in civilian life . it might be necessary to set out in the Bill the protection that be relevant to service complaint to clarify that . improve the complaint system will be effective only if we address the experience of every part of our armed force community , include woman in our armed service , service personnel from ethnic minority background , non - UK passport holder , and LGBT + service personnel . there be troubling evidence of differential treatment for service personnel from those background . it be vital that we address that in the interest of fairness , to ensure that our force be more representative of the community they serve and to address ongoing issue of recruitment and retention . the Bill present an opportunity to effect change , so I would be grateful for anything that the Minister could set out about how he expect the commissioner to establish connection with those community and work with they proactively to gain an understanding of what be require . equally , the commissioner need to represent the wide armed force community beyond regular service personnel . service family be clearly critical to many of the commissioner ' s function , but I hope that it be make completely clear that the bereaved be equally deserving of our continued support , if they wish for it . the Royal British Legion have rightly point out the relevance of the Haythornthwaite review , and its central recommendation that there be a move towards a fluid spectrum of service , where people can move easily between regular and the reserve . work towards that will surely require action from the commissioner to ensure that the need of reservist and recruit be be meet . I welcome the Government ' s ongoing work to meet our manifesto commitment to put the armed force covenant into law . I be mindful of the cross - departmental nature of many of the issue that affect service personnel — something that be rightly make explicit in the covenant . I wonder whether , as the Bill progress , we should consider set out the relationship between the commissioner and the Cabinet Office , to give a clear point of contact within Government and a way to easily escalate complaint that be impact by cross - government work . surely it would be good to future - proof the Bill by ensure that the commissioner ' s structure fit with the covenant from the outset , although I accept that the Department ' s think about the good legal form for the armed force covenant may not yet be complete . will the Minister set out any early thought on that ? ultimately , the Bill represent very welcome action from the Government to give the people who keep we safe a more effective guarantee of safety and fair and decent treatment in return . it be equally welcome that we be learn from our european partner about the design of the institution , and place emphasis on transparency and accountability to Parliament . my hope be that the Bill will form part of a wide shift in how the armed force community work to deliver on the promise of defence as a truly rewarding career of service . if we can achieve that , our country will be safe for it . I declare an interest and a huge sense of pride in take part in this debate : I have cousin who serve in the Army and the Royal Air Force , and a son in the Royal Navy , all of whom be under 30 . hopefully , because of the Bill , they be at the start of long and successful armed force career . also , my constituency of Portsmouth North be the home of the Royal Navy . I be glad that the Minister for the Armed Forces , my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , be not here to argue about that . I think he be ! I mean the other one — my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Moor View ( Fred Thomas ) . I be proud to be part of a mission - lead Government but , as the Secretary of State say early , no mission from a Labour Government be complete unless it be our first duty to keep our country safe . peace and security be hard earn and require constant vigilance and a well - staff and — dare I aspire to say — a happy armed force workforce . this Bill be groundbreake in its mission , with 183 , 000 service personnel and their family at its heart . it provide the opportunity and the authority for an independent commissioner to investigate welfare complaint not only from those serve , but from their family . it also give the commissioner the opportunity and the authority to horizon scan , to highlight trend , to visit our basis and listen to personnel and their family , to launch investigation when need and , ultimately , to improve the world of work and the life of those who so often put this country first . I welcome the stance of the whole House and the cross - party commitment to this Bill . real change can not come quickly enough . attrition rate continue to grow and morale among our service personnel continue to plummet . at the moment , recruitment be outstrip by those leave , so retention be a real concern . despite 81 % of our service personnel feeling support by their family and their colleague , it be upsetting that almost 50 % do not feel that their family and their family life be support by the service . impact on family and personal life remain the top factor influence those leave the service . it would be remiss of I not to note that in my Portsmouth North constituency the concern around armed force housing be very high . with three quarter of our personnel live in service accommodation , it be vital to be able to hear the voice of those serve and their family , and to use that to improve housing , community , childcare and the life of our force and their family . this government be serious about keep our country safe and make our armed service a priority . with a pay rise already award , with an announcement on childcare provision already make , with a new cyber - route and the cutting of red tape in recruitment , and now with a Bill provide an armed force champion , with real voice and real experience at its centre , this be a step to build back that erode trust and pride . just as I do when my son return from sea , we as a Government be put our arm around service personnel and their family . this will not be easy , and it will not be quick . issue will be uncover that will be uncomfortable and possibly costly . culture might need to change , the Secretary of State will be present with report and independent investigation , and Parliament will need to address these issue . success or failure will be measure and voice , as it should be . will the Minister assure I that , however difficult the outcome , the report and the word that we hear from our service personnel , we will commit to have a truly independent commissioner , so that our armed service feel they have the trust to go to they ? in deliver this Bill into law , we will not only say , but show by our action , how much we value the service and dedication of our armed force personnel and their family . my constituency be the proud home to the 16 Air Assault Brigade Combat Team , and the garrison and wide community be home to many serve personnel and their family . we know that the man and woman in our armed service serve our nation proudly and put their life at risk to defend the freedom we all hold dear . I pay a personal tribute to my father - in - law , my nephew and other member of my extended family who have serve and serve today . I be proud to stand on a manifesto that commit to establish an independent Armed Forces Commissioner to improve service life for our force and the family who support they — and here I pay tribute to my mother - in - law for all that she do on that score . this Bill deliver on that promise . the last Government hollow out and underfunde our armed force , but the extra £ 2 . 9 billion announce in the Budget put we back on the path of investment in our defence and our defence workforce . I be very pleased that the Armed Forces Commissioner will be a direct point of contact for serve personnel and their family . the commissioner will be able to raise issue that impact service life , include access to good quality housing and childcare . I know that , while Army family in Colchester provide so much support for each other , they often do not feel that they get the support they deserve , and that need to change . the last Labour Government introduce the armed force covenant , and I welcome this Government ' s commitment to incorporate that covenant fully into law . in Colchester we be support by many great organisation such as the Army Benevolent Fund , SSAFA and regimental charity such as Support our Paras . I thank they for the work they do , and I would like to see the new commissioner work hard and closely with they . I be also pleased that this Bill support other wide change that the Government be already make to support our veteran — a point make early by Opposition Members . we have already deliver on our manifesto commitment to make the veteran ID card an accepted form of voter ID . we have act to improve veteran ' access to secure , healthy home and we have invest £ 3 . 5 million of additional funding for veteran ' homelessness support programme . this Government be absolutely committed to the welfare of veteran . I be delighted that this Labour Government be introduce the Armed Forces Commissioner post . I have write about commissioner role elsewhere and compare their power ; I hope that this role will be as strong as the strong of the rest . if so , that commissioner will be a strong independent voice for our force in Colchester and across the country , commit to improve service life . I support this Bill wholeheartedly . I echo other hon . member who have say how nice it be to hear from so many serviceman and woman in this House , and so many hon . member who represent service community , who be collectively behind this Bill . just over a week ago we observe Remembrance Sunday , a solemn day to honour the courage , dedication and sacrifice of our armed force . that annual act of remembrance be a poignant reminder of the immense debt of gratitude we owe those who serve . it be therefore fitting that the Government have in the same month introduce the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill , which rightly recognise that improve the life of service personnel and their family be not only a moral duty , but a necessity if we be to recruit and retain the people we need . over the past decade our armed force have face significant challenge , compound by underfunding and a series of cut . research have lay bare the reality : optimism among the armed force have reach record low , and recruitment and retention be in a state of crisis . annual survey of service personnel consistently reveal high level of dissatisfaction with service life . nearly 60 % report low morale and less than half express satisfaction with their service experience . those figure speak volume about the press need for reform and meaningful change . I know how bad it have become , because I come from a service family . I grow up live on an RAF base and I follow my dad and brother into the armed force . in recent year we have all see the deterioration in the experience of service life , with the state of accommodation in particular be a huge problem . for example , my brother , after 20 year ' service in the Royal Air Force , be expect to live in accommodation that have rise damp and sewage leak into part of the premise . his family , with a young daughter , be expect to live in a house with black mould and broken plumbing . that be unacceptable . we would not expect prisoner to live like that , and we should not expect our brave servicemen and woman and their family to live in such condition . I have speak to many people in my constituency and elsewhere who have a similar story : poor housing and a lack of action from those who have responsibility . that be why it be so important to have an Armed Forces Commissioner to advocate on behalf of service personnel such as my brother when their voice go unheard . this commissioner will provide a powerful and independent voice for service personnel and the family who support they . they will report directly to Parliament , ensure accountability and transparency in address the need and concern of those who serve , and the framework will give service personnel confidence that their voice be hear , their issue be take seriously and they have a robust advocate work on their behalf . every year we stand together as a nation to pay tribute to those who have give their life in service to our country , but that tribute must go beyond word and ceremony ; it must be match by concrete action by the politician entrust with represent their interest . as a veteran , I understand how deeply service shape not only those who serve , but their family . I be proud to stand here today both as an MP and as a former Royal Marine to lend my full support this Bill at Second Reading . this legislation be a step in the right direction and a step towards ensure that every member of our armed force know that their sacrifice be value and that they be support by a system design to protect their interest and those of their family . for too long , those need have go unmet . this Bill be an opportunity to change that . may I , too , begin by welcome contribution from across the House ? it have be a remarkably cross - party , consensual debate so far , and I be sure that will continue . unlike some who have speak , my family do not have a veteran , but I grow up for three and a half year on an RAF base in Berlin . it be subject to something call the Berlin budget , which ensure that adequate housing be not a problem , thank to taxpayer in Berlin . it be interesting that this provision be model on an exist german position — that be always something I would welcome , and a country that I have great feeling for . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , as this Labour Government continue at pace to put in place more of the many commitment make to my constituent , and other , in our manifesto . the Government have already take action to stabilise our economy , unleash investment , and reform the House of Lords . for Scotland , the recent Budget see a record £ 3 . 4 billion of additional funding , a pay rise for 200 , 000 scot , and many other benefit . in defence , as other have mention , the Government have increase pay for our armed force , deliver an extra £ 2 . 5 billion for the defence budget , on top of £ 3 billion annually for Ukraine , for as long as it will take to defeat Vladimir Putin . the Bill will help to protect those serve in our armed force and their family . in the Dunfermline and Dollar region and the wide part of Fife we have a proud heritage of military family , both serve and in veteran community . from the Royal Navy and Rosyth Dockyard in my constituency , to the former RAF base at Leuchars , now use by the Army , the exist RAF base at Lossiemouth , the nuclear deterrent on the Clyde , and training ground for commando and special force unit throughout the highland , Dunfermline , Fife and Scotland know a lot about what be need to support soldier and their family , which be why I welcome the Bill . force family face long period apart , frequent move , educational change , housing issue — those have already be mention — inconsistent access to healthcare , and sometimes even different tax arrangement within the UK . the nature of the military , with the vital and necessary chain of command can lead , and in the past have lead , to a closed shop , and the development of toxic and unhelpful practice and culture . while some issue must continue to be deal with by the chain of command , because the role of serve personnel often mean that their family must follow they around , there must also be a route that allow they to raise broad issue of concern — something that the Bill will achieve with the Armed Forces Commissioner . as other have mention , we must ensure that living condition be appropriate for our armed force personnel , both with their family and when apart . it be unacceptable to expect our armed force to live in inadequate housing , not just from a health perspective but because that be not conducive to modern family life . I speak recently to veteran in my community , and they say that sometimes they would just welcome access to adequate wi - fi , so that they can keep in touch with their family when abroad . on a related matter , I strongly welcome the announcement by the Prime Minister and the Government ' s action with the home for hero commitment , and I thank my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary , and his ministerial team , for the rigour that I know they be apply to its implementation . I wish we could see more action , particularly from the SNP in Scotland , where I would like to see a much more committed approach to service for our armed force and veteran . if we do not begin to address some of these issue quickly and directly , and with the highly competitive career market that we face , it will only become hard to recruit and retain armed force personnel . in an ever more unstable world , we must ensure that UK armed force be an attractive employer , not only for those on the frontline but for the thousand of essential staff who might otherwise choose to work in the private sector , in area such as logistic or technology . we must ensure that bullying , harassment and discrimination be drive from our armed force at all level . not only be that the right thing to do , and how we make the armed force an attractive and responsible employer , and not only be it how we build and maintain morale , and recruit and retain staff , but it be also how we ensure that our armed force be able and ready to fight when we need they to . the independent role that the Bill seek to establish offer the possibility to create an effective and independent process that will provide people with confidence that they can raise concern and see an established and transparent process for how those concern will be investigate and address quickly and effectively . I do not welcome the future position of Ministers who must respond to some of these report , as I believe they will lay bare some of the challenge that have be allow to build up over year and decade , but face they we will and face they we must . when the Minister respond , will he explain how the commissioner be intend to work with the devolved Administrations and local authority inside those administration ? where we have another layer of government , we must ensure that it do not fail local authority — I be , of course , think particularly of Scotland . it have take a long time for a Parliament and Government to recognise and address the different life live by our armed force and their family . it should be no surprise that it have once again take a Labour Government to take the necessary action to protect our armed force . last week I commend the Secretary of State ' s introduction of this Bill as a promise make and a promise fulfil . it deliver on the Government ' s manifesto commitment to strengthen support for our armed force community . as a Scottish Labour Member of Parliament , I be proud to speak in support of it today . the Bill represent this new Government ' s determination to renew the contract between the nation and those who serve and protect our country . I know this Government will always stand up for our armed force ; that be why they have already confirm the large pay rise for personnel in 20 year . at its core , the Bill be about ensure that our brave man and woman in uniform be properly support and protect , and that they be treat with the dignity and respect that they deserve throughout their career . our armed force be an essential part of the fabric of our national life , both in Scotland and across the UK as a whole . that be bring to life in my Livingston constituency , which be home to the Military Museum Scotland at Wilkieston . that fantastic , award - win museum cover scottish military history from world war one to the present day . West Lothian be also home to the Ancre Somme Association Scotland , a wonderful charity with Councillor Harry Cartmill , who represent Bathgate , as its chairman and found member . ASA prioritise the education of local armed force history , work with school , community , veteran , family and serve personnel , to show the importance of our armed force in our community . from scottish regiment that have serve with distinction on battlefield across the world to present day personnel base in the Livingston constituency , and town and city across Scotland , our servicemen and woman stand ready and willing to defend our way of life . they not only serve our country but embody the value that we hold dear : duty , loyalty , sacrifice and service . too often , however , we hear of the struggle face by service member , such as difficulty in access mental health service , or issue with accommodation or childcare . the creation of an Armed Forces Commissioner represent a significant step forward in address those challenge . as a strong , independent champion for serve personnel and their family , the commissioner will be a direct point of contact for people to raise issue that impact service life . not only will the commissioner be a voice for the concern of serve family , but they will also hold the Government — any Government , include this one — accountable . as many member have say , it show real leadership that we be willing to put that on the line to ensure that every year we have to respond to those challenge . the Bill have the support of service personnel , the Royal British Legion and Poppyscotland . feedback from Germany on the establishment and functioning of a similar role indicate strong support from service personnel for an independent commissioner . this Labour Government be a champion of our armed force , as all Labour Governments before they have be . a Government ' s first duty be to national service and the defence of our country , and that include a duty of care to those who take up that burden . in conclusion , the new Armed Forces Commissioner must have the power need to investigate complaint , scrutinise the Government ' s action and ultimately provide meaningful recommendation for action . the Bill be a commitment to ensure that the welfare of our armed force personnel be not an afterthought but an ongoing priority day in , day out . it be a recognition of the need for a long - term vision for a well future for our force . I believe the establishment of the commissioner will help we to build a military that be not only strong in its purpose , but strong in its support for those individual who serve in it . may I start by say how humbling it be to share these Benches with those who have serve our country ? you add far more to this debate than I could ever hope to , and it be a genuine honour to have hear so many of you speak today . our armed force be too small ; in the current geopolitical climate , that fact be undeniable . in this era of unprecedented global uncertainty , we must ask ourselves a fundamental question : be our defence capability sufficient to protect our nation , uphold our value and fulfil our obligation to ally ? Russia ' s brutal aggression in Ukraine have make one thing clear : conventional warfare be not a relic of the past , but a clear and present danger . regardless of the decision make by our close ally the United States in the come month , the UK must urgently stand ready to act with our ally . we must assert our position as a key strategic player in global security . to achieve that , we need a solid foundation for the expansion of our military capability , and that begin with address the challenge of recruitment and retention . since 2011 , we have miss our recruitment target in every year but one . this Bill be critical to solve that crisis and arrest the decline . fundamentally , it seek to strengthen advocacy and accountability by establish an independent figure dedicate to address issue face by service member , include housing , healthcare , mental health and family support . the commissioner will have new power to proactively investigate systemic problem , rather than simply react to scandal as they emerge , such as the housing issue we have hear so much about today . by hold decision - maker accountable , the commissioner will drive improvement that make military life more attractive to current personnel and potential recruit . make no mistake : the passing of this Bill and the creation of this role will and should make the life of decision - maker more difficult , as they be rightly challenge at every turn to do well by our armed force . that proactive approach will enhance trust and transparency , create a real sense that service member ' concern be hear and act upon . the Armed Forces Commissioner will provide a direct point of contact for personnel and their family , ensure that their voice shape the future of military life . the Bill be part of a broad effort by the Government to honour the man and woman of our armed force , so I welcome the wraparound childcare for military family deploy overseas , which recognise the sacrifice that service family make . I welcome that after year of real - term pay cut , we have see the big pay rise in 22 year deliver by this Labour Government . that be a critical and much - need break from the recent past . I welcome the armed force covenant be fully enshrine into law , ensure that those who serve and their family be treat with fairness and respect . I speak to countless Hartlepool veteran , who have tell I that far too many public service , whether gp practice , dentist , housing provider or other , pay only lip service to that covenant . that must change . finally , I commend the Prime Minister ' s commitment to home for hero , an initiative to end the disgrace of veteran homelessness . veteran must be at the front of the queue if we be to honour their service to our country . in an uncertain world , we must expand our armed force , but we can succeed only by renew our country ' s contract with those who serve or who have serve , support they and their family . an independent advocate for service personnel , a real - term pay rise and tangible support for veteran be not just policy , but the patriotic foundation of a strong , more secure future . as the MP for Sandhurst , I be proud to represent the home of Royal Military Academy Sandhurst , where every british Army officer start their journey of service ; it be important to reflect that in recent year that service have not necessarily be repay by we . I be alarmed that only four in 10 service personnel be satisfied with service life , and the fact that the armed force be shrink due to a recruitment and retention crisis should worry we all . with that in mind , I warmly welcome the establishment of the Armed Forces Commissioner , as part of the Government ' s overall plan to renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve we . it be vital that the Armed Forces Commissioner should be independent . I note with interest the contribution make by my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , the Chair of the Defence Committee , on that point ; I also note the view of my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Moor View ( Fred Thomas ) that the overwhelming proof of that independence will be whether the commissioner be in a position to shine a light on welfare matter , to address issue of culture and to raise the quality of service life . the proof , as they say , will be in the pudding . on that note , it be welcome that the commissioner will be able to bring their report to Parliament for we to scrutinise . it be also vital that the role should be a powerful voice for service family ; those who serve be too often constrain by the lack of support for those who support they in their important role . I also welcome the proactive investigatory power of the Armed Forces Commissioner . the Bill be welcome , but it be important to note that it be only part of a wide commitment to support our armed force , which include decent pay rise , with 35 % more pay for recruit ; £ 3 . 5 million more to support veteran face homelessness ; and the expansion of the veteran card as an approve form of voter ID . it will be digitise , too . this weekend , 20 hour of wraparound childcare for service personnel serve overseas be announce , which will save family £ 3 , 400 . that be important because too often serve member of our armed force find that their family at home be not give the support while they serve our country overseas . that have to change in a modern world where — in the armed force , as in the rest of society — two member of a household will often be work . it be important for we to give that support for family care , include to single parent who be serve . finally , I take this opportunity to reflect on the grim anniversary that we face tomorrow : 1 , 000 day since Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . this be an important moment to reflect on the sacrifice and service we ask of our armed force , as we look to the brave service of ukrainian soldier face up to the aggression of Putin ' s illegal war . the world be a more dangerous place . we ask a great deal of those who serve for we , and they do so know that they may be ask to make the ultimate sacrifice . with that in mind , it be vital that we renew our contract with those who serve we , so that we serve they . the Bill be an important step in get that right . I welcome the introduction of the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill and the cross - party support for it . the Government could not have introduce the Bill at a more prudent time , as our service personnel have make it clear over many year that they be not get the quality of support that they need , whether because of poor response to concern and complaint , the quality of home or the treatment of woman and other minority group . the Ministry of Defence ' s most recent attitude report show that morale amongst service personnel fall for the third year in a row . only around a third of military personnel report feel value by their service , despite the vital defence role they play . pay satisfaction , which last year be at its low record level , have increase by only 1 % . it be time that those concern be address . we know that the Government have already announce the large armed force pay increase in 22 year , and the introduction of the armed force commissioner represent even further investment in the welfare of our force . this vital support be not only incredibly well deserved but long overdue . ten unit be station at Chetwynd barrack in my constituency of Broxtowe , and the establishment of an armed force commissioner will transform how the concern and need of our armed force personnel and their loved one be address . in an ever - change defence landscape , it be key that the Government ensure that our armed force have a dedicated spokesperson and advocate to ensure that their voice be hear at the high level . it be time that we create an infrastructure to establish that long - need sense of security and support within the military community . let we move forward with this important legislation and reinforce our commitment to the welfare of our service member . in do so , let we ensure that those who serve and their family be give the support that they so rightly deserve . let we establish an armed force commissioner so that we can well serve those who nobly serve our country . with Armistice Day just one week behind we , and with respect and admiration for veteran , service personnel and their family still fresh in the public consciousness , it be only fitting that we speak about a Bill that will improve the quality of life in service and ensure that our military personnel receive the respect and support that they deserve . it be widely know that our armed force face record level of low morale and a crisis in recruitment and retention , with only four in 10 service member satisfied with a life in service — and who can blame they ? in 2022 , 163 service family accommodation home be leave without heat for over five day during the Christmas period , and only 27 % of personnel be satisfied with maintenance response . while most service family accommodation be officially rate as " decent " , independent review highlight serious issue , with many family endure poor repair . our armed force deserve well . address those issue be not a luxury but a necessity . it be simply unacceptable that in 2021 nearly 62 % of female service personnel and veteran report experience of bullying , harassment , discrimination and , in rare case , even bad . those number speak for themselves , and our structure be not work . what measure will the Government use to evaluate the success of the armed force commissioner in address welfare issue , and how will they ensure that personnel see tangible improvement in their day - to - day live as a result ? will the commissioner have a role in oversee the support provide to those who have serve during their transition to civilian life to ensure that their welfare be not neglect ? our service personnel and their family continue to sacrifice in the name of our freedom , so it be only right that we provide they with the support and respect that they deserve . the weekend before last , I attend a memorial service in my constituency of Dudley . I be proud to see how many people turn out to pay their respect and thank the servicemen and woman , past and present , who have give so much to our country . in particular , I thank the people of the Lower Gornal Royal British Legion and the many dedicated veteran and volunteer who dutifully maintain our heritage , include those of all Saints church in Sedgley . as the people of Dudley pay their respect to our veteran and service personnel of the past , it be only right that we ensure that the right quality of service be give to the armed force of the present . the Bill , by create the role of armed force commissioner , provide we with a crucial opportunity to address those deep - seat issue . it be not just about improve condition ; it be also about fundamentally change the culture within our armed force . our servicemen and woman deserve nothing less than our respect , support and gratitude for all the support they have give we and the service they provide . I be pleased to speak in support of these proposal for a number of reason , but particularly because I come from a family who have public service , include military service , in our blood . a number of my family have serve in the armed force . of particular note be my uncle , Clifford Berry , who serve for more than 22 year in the Royal Engineers . that role see he complete two tour in Northern Ireland , as well as a post overseas in Germany and service in the Falkland Islands . support for our armed service be root in the dna of my constituency too . in the north of South West Norfolk we be proud to host RAF Marham — home to the F - 35 Lightning squadron — and 3 , 600 service personnel and their family . at the other end , just outside the constituency boundary , be RAF Honington in Suffolk , home to the RAF Regiment and the specialist counter - chemical , nuclear and biological weapon team . although I admit that that base be physically locate in Suffolk , it be in my hometown of Thetford that many of its personnel and their family be base . recently , I be proud to grant they the freedom of the town . nearby , we also have RAF Mildenhall and RAF Lakenheath , which work alongside our friend and ally from the United States . in the light of that interconnect patchwork of military personnel , it be little wonder that people in my constituency be so passionate and supportive of our armed service . during the lead - up to Remembrance Day , I be proud to support local volunteer from the Royal British Legion in collect fund as part of the poppy appeal . as well as the important task of raise money , I be pleased to speak to so many people about why they want to support the RBL and about their personal connection to our armed force . it be a truly honourable and enjoyable few hour , and my thank go to Heather , a local RBL volunteer , for host I . in my role as a local councillor , however , I have see a different side to thing . I have have to issue food bank voucher to family of service personnel as they have struggle to make end meet . I and fellow councillor have repeatedly have to complain about the state of military housing , and raise issue about mould and damp , which have impact on family health . as my hon . friend the Member for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) highlight , military housing be all too often age , poorly insulate and not energy efficient , and as a result many family spend a disproportionate sum of money on heat their home . in some part of Norfolk they be pay £ 25 a day for their electricity because of poor insulation , and they be often give electric heater , which offer no solution . many of those home provide a miserable existence in winter month , with draught , cold floor , damp and mould . it have occur to I in recent month that our share respect and support for our armed service be not adequately reflect in the system design to support they . I hope that the new commissioner will change that . as a number of member have remark , the first duty of any Government be to keep our country safe . at the heart of our security be the man and woman who serve and risk their life in defence of our nation . it be also worth mention how the erosion of our public service more generally over the past 14 year have be impact on service personnel and their family . in my Downham Market constituency surgery , a serve member of the military recently tell I about his son , who have additional need . as a family , they be unable to find suitable education and so be force to home - school their son . Dad be force to work from home , and he be no long deployable , which take a very skilled operative out of the service and mean an unwelcome pay cut for the family . I be proud that the Labour Government recognise the sacrifice make not only by those in uniform , but by their family . the new commissioner , as a direct point of contact for serve personnel and , importantly , for their family , will be able to raise the full breadth of issue that impact on service life . the power to proactively investigate be important , as be the ability to access information and visit site , because — believe I — seeing be believe when it come to some of these issue . my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) capture this point brilliantly early . so often there be a culture of not want to speak out ; of not want to rock the boat . I hear so many time that military family do not want to create a fuss . the independent aspect of this role be so important , and I would be grateful if the Minister clarify far the independence of the commissioner . I be sure that would be of great interest to my constituent . safeguard whistleblowing be important . the Bill be a big step forward , and I be very happy to support it on behalf of the resident of South West Norfolk . establish an Armed Forces Commissioner will make a real difference to the military family I represent in the home of the British Army , so I be delighted to have the opportunity to speak in this debate and welcome this important legislation . we have hear from across of the House about the tremendous debt we owe our armed force . we feel that very deeply in Aldershot and Farnborough , as people from our community have serve in every major conflict that our country have face over the past 200 year . the Bill be essentially about respect — show respect to those serve and for the family who support they . this be about not just word , but deed . the armed force covenant be there to ensure that those who serve and their family be not disadvantage by be part of our military community , but I have hear time and again , in countless conversation on doorstep across my constituency , how force family be often automatically on the back foot when they move on to a military estate in my community . a spouse share with I last week how her three child have be allocate to three different primary school within a seven - mile radius . how be she suppose to get all her child to school on time ? that be an all - too - common experience for family in my constituency . other have tell I how they have try to use their voice to speak up about shoddy accommodation that simply be not up to standard , but too many have be wear down and fatigue by the process , give up hope that anything will ever change . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to Councillor Nadia Martin , the armed force champion for Rushmoor borough council . Nadia be a military spouse who have singlehandedly give a voice to so many serve family and veteran in our community . we have become a lot well at support our armed force and veteran because of Nadia ' s work , and our community owe she a huge amount of thank . however , for every case we know and hear about , many other go unspoken and unresolved , because people be too scared to speak out , for fear that it might harm their career or that of their partner . that be why we need an independent Armed Forces Commissioner ; someone our force can trust , and who can investigate , follow up , hold Government to account and be the guide star for this place as we renew our nation ' s contract with those who serve our country . after a generation of our armed force be neglect and run down by the Conservative Government , leave morale at a record low , we desperately need to give hope to our serve personnel . my constituent do not want the earth ; they just want the basic equipment that they need to be able to do their job , a good life for their family and a positive future when their time serve come to an end . I hope that the Bill will move we close to that , because if they be willing to fight for we , it be the very least that we can do . I call the shadow Minister . as the shadow Armed Forces Minister , I begin by reiterate that Conservative Members approach this Bill as critical friend , with a commitment to strengthen its impact for those who serve this country so bravely . this have be a good - quality debate , conduct in a notably bipartisan spirit . another sub - theme have be the benign presence of a former Royal Marine mafia — they have be prevalent throughout the debate , from the Veterans Minister himself downwards . for the record , the Veterans Minister be present for the opening speech , even though he be not allow to contribute . we have have a number of extremely good Back - Bench speech , from the hon . member for Plymouth Moor View ( Fred Thomas ) , for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) , for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) , for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) , for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) , for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) , for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) , for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) , for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) , for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) , for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) , for Broxtowe ( Juliet Campbell ) , for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) , for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) , and — last but not least — for Aldershot ( Alex Baker ) , as well as from my hon . friend the Member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) . I be particularly indebted to the hon . member for Bracknell , who mention that he have the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst in his constituency . in tonight ' s debate , a number of tribute be pay by hon . member who have relative who serve in the armed force . it be greatly to the House ' s credit that we now have so many mp who have either serve in the armed force , or have love one who do . my godson , Second Lieutenant Alexander Blackwell , pass out from the sovereign ' s parade at RMA Sandhurst in August and be now a second lieutenant commission into the regular Army . I place on the record that I be as proud of he as all other hon . member be of their family member . we also have a very accomplished maiden speech from the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) . not only be she lucid and entertaining , but it be the first occasion in my 23 year in this place on which I have know anyone to get Dracula into a maiden speech — she really get her tooth into it . more seriously , she invoke the memory of our fall comrade Jo Cox and quite rightly point to her plaque , which be on the wall behind I . of course , Jo be famous for her suggestion that as Members of Parliament , we have more in common than divide we . that be absolutely the spirit of this evening ' s very good debate . at the core of this Bill , as I be sure the Minister will agree , lie a commitment to support our armed force personnel . they deserve a system that not only honour their service , but ensure accountability and fairness in address their legitimate concern . the Bill propose a model similar to the german system , whereby the commissioner have what we might characterise as Ofsted - like power , include the ability to enter military site and access pertinent information for investigation . if execute correctly , this could enhance oversight , transparency and the live experience of our servicemen and woman , strengthen public confidence in how their issue be address . a truly independent , well - resource commissioner with the right power could be a powerful voice for our service personnel and veteran — I will come back to the topic of veteran — address their concern fairly , transparently and promptly . we believe that this vision deserve cross - party support . however , there be detail in the Bill that we intend to examine closely . we must ensure that it truly deliver on its promise without add unnecessary complexity to the exist oversight system . as we support the vision of the Bill , we also have a duty to scrutinise how this new role will be implement , how it will integrate into the current framework , and its implication for those already navigate the armed force complaint system . in short , the challenge for Ministers will be to convince armed force personnel and their family that this new legislation will represent real change , and will not just mean replace the nameplate outside the office of the Service Complaints Ombudsman with a new one that say " Armed Forces Commissioner " . we support the vision , but the proof of the pudding really will be in the eating . I have question that I hope the Minister will address in his wind - up speech . first , his Majesty ' s loyal opposition have concern regard the transition of case outstanding with the Service Complaints Ombudsman , whose office will be abolish via clause 1 . some of those case have be open for a considerable time , cause significant stress and frustration to those affect . will the Minister explain what will happen to the many case still outstanding with the current ombudsman ? will they be transfer automatically to the new commissioner ? if so , what assurance can he give that the transition , which will follow Royal Assent , will not lead to further delay or the loss of critical information ? our service personnel deserve timely resolution . indeed , we must avoid any risk of case slip through the crack during the handover . I hope he will accept that that be a perfectly legitimate concern . secondly , what be the timeline for establish the new commissioner role ? do the Government expect to have the commissioner in place by the time the strategic defence review report in the first half of next year ? some cynic be already suggest that that will be in late June 2025 . if we could have confirmation on the timeline , that would be helpful . thirdly , I come to financial question . what will be the true cost of establish and maintain the commissioner ? paragraph 11 ( 1 ) of propose new schedule 14za to the Armed Forces Act 2006 state : " the Secretary of State may make payment and provide other financial assistance to the Commissioner . " what budget have be allocate to the commissioner ' s office for 2024 - 25 ? will that come from the MOD ' s budget or from the Cabinet Office ? wherever it come from , how much money be we talk about ? the figure of £ 5 million have be mention a couple of time this evening ; I wonder whether the Minister can confirm that . on the financial implication , how will that funding affect other essential service ? as hon . member in all part of the House know , defence budget be continually stretch . fourthly , another critical area on which we would like further clarity be the authority that the commissioner will hold . will this individual have the autonomy need to genuinely advocate for our force without interference ? that point be stress by the Chair of the Defence Committee , the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , in his very good contribution . how will the commissioner interact with the Defence Committee ? the Secretary of State confirm in his opening remark that the Defence Committee will be involve in the appointment process . will it have a veto on a propose appointee if , for whatever reason , it have concern that they might not be suitable ? it be crucial that the Bill bring about measurable change that be beneficial to our service personnel . the proposal in the Bill that thematic report be lay before Parliament each year be welcome by the Opposition . finally , as a number of hon . member have ask , what about veteran ? clause 4 will amend the Armed Forces Act 2006 to allow the commissioner to investigate a " general service welfare matter … which , in the Commissioner ' s opinion … arise in connection with the ongoing service of person subject to service law … or relevant family member . " there be no direct reference to veteran , even though by definition they previously serve in the armed force , some of they for many year . give that veteran also experience welfare issue — not least to do with the payment of pension or outstanding claim from the armed force compensation scheme — be there scope for allow the new commissioner to take responsibility for examine those issue , too ? the Royal British Legion state in its very good briefing note on the Bill : " RBL and Poppyscotland would like clarity on how the Armed Forces Commissioner will interact with the exist Veterans ' Commissioners for Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland and the propose National Veterans ' Commissioner . " when the Minister sum up , will he explain what the relationship will be between the new armed force commissioner and the propose national veterans commissioner ? while he be at it , will he update we on the progress on the national veterans commissioner ? on a related point , the well - respect Northern Ireland veteran commissioner Danny Kinahan resign recently , for reason that have not be make entirely clear . will the Minister update the House on why he resign , and what arrangement have be put in place for his replacement ? as I have outline , the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill represent an opportunity to enhance the support and advocacy that we provide to our armed force . there be potential for the Bill to address some of the most pressing issue face service personnel today , and to offer essential accountability and transparency to those who sacrifice so much in the service of our nation . it be crucial that we get this right . we be commit to work with the Government to ensure that the Bill deliver on its promise . we owe it to our armed force to scrutinise the detail thoroughly , so that this legislation do not become another layer of oversight that complicate the process , but rather provide streamlined and meaningful support . by address the issue we have raise today — the transition of outstanding ombudsman case , the urgency of the timeline , the potential cost , the commissioner ' s authority and the scope of support for veteran — we can avoid pitfall . as we move forward and the Bill enter Committee , we will continue to work constructively with the Government in , I hope , the same bipartisan spirit that the whole House have clearly embody this evening , push for clarity and advocate for the change need to make this legislation as truly impactful as I be sure that the Government and the Minister intend it to be . our force deserve nothing less . we stand ready to collaborate on secure a fair , accountable and effective system that uphold the high standard for those who be serve and who have serve , and their family . we thank they for their service . I thank all member who have speak in this debate . a number of member speak about the importance of this time of year . last week , I be on the Falkland Islands to represent the Government and Falklands veteran from Plymouth , to lay a wreath at the war memorial that remember the 255 member of UK armed force who die in the 1982 conflict , and to lay a further wreath to remember the 49 member of our armed force who have die subsequently in accident and other incident on the Falkland Islands . remembrance be a special time of year . it be an opportunity for all of we , whatever our walk of life , to thank those who have serve , to remember those people who never come home , and to offer our support to those people who come back forever change . I be grateful to member across the House for their participation in remembrance event , and the support they have show to our armed force and veteran community . I be grateful to member across the House for their contribution to the debate . it have be truly heartwarme to listen to speech from all side of the House about the passion and respect for , and dignity of , member of the armed force . I will touch on a few of the question ask , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) , the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) , my hon . friend the Members for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) and for Plymouth Moor View ( Fred Thomas ) , the hon . member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) , my hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) , the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) , my hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I also thank my hon . friend the Members for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) , for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) , for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) , for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) , for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) , for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) , for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) , for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) , for Broxtowe ( Juliet Campbell ) , for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) , for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) and for Aldershot ( Alex Baker ) . I also thank the Front - Bench spokesperson for their contribution : the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) and for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , and the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) . that be a tour de force of our nation and region , and we should all be proud of the way our armed force be hold in such regard across our country . I pay special tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Hogsmeade Station — my hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby — for her brilliant maiden speech and for her word about Jo Cox . Jo Cox inspire both in life and in death . I hope there will be many more brilliant woman who follow in my hon . friend ' s footstep and join she on these Benches because of the work Jo Cox inspire . member from across the House raise a number of issue . I will attempt , in sum up , to deal with a number of they , but if I do not cover they all , I would be grateful if member could continue this debate , because the Bill be important . it be important that we get this right . it be important that we set the parameter for the Armed Forces Commissioner — the power and the role they will have — and in particular stress the impartiality and independence of the role . that be absolutely key . I be strike by just how many member begin their speech with an assessment of where we be now . my hon . friend the Member for Aldershot describe personnel as feel wear down . the hon . member for Exmouth and Exeter East describe the significant shortfall in recruitment and an exodus of skill and personnel in recent year , and he be correct to do so . a number of member relate that to the evidence the MOD collect in the continuous attitude survey . the fall morale in the attitude of our armed force personnel really stand as a roll call of shame for the previous Government . it be not the fault of armed force personnel , but a collective failure to address the issue that underpin service life . that be one of the reason why this Government propose an Armed Forces Commissioner and why we must get it right to provide a direct contact for our armed force personnel and their family . a number of member speak about the culture in our armed force . the vast majority of people who serve our country do so with the right value and the right attitude , but there be far too many example where that be not the case . I be grateful to the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell for raise the Atherton review . the report by Sarah Atherton in the previous Parliament should be compulsory reading for all member of Parliament . I say to new member who have join we since the 2024 general election that it be well worth a google to understand the experience of so many woman in our armed force — it be worth have on your bedside table . my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead speak very passionately about bring to justice perpetrator who act against the spirit of our armed force and diminish the experience of service life for so many other people . he be correct to do so . my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar likewise speak about the importance of lift our culture . the role of the Armed Forces Commissioner have be specifically design so that they can investigate issue relate to general service welfare matter for those who serve and their family . it be not for I as a Minister , or for the Secretary of State or anyone else on the Government Bench , to set out what the Armed Forces Commissioner should investigate . it be for we to give that person the power and the ability to get to the heart of the problem . I be grateful to all member who very kindly give the Front Bench word of advice . my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Moor View say it will not be easy read the commissioner ' s report , as do my hon . friend the Member for Livingston . the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens describe the Government as leave themselves open to scrutiny . my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell speak about the proof be in the pudding . they be all right to do so . we be deliberately open ourselves to scrutiny because it will improve the life of those people who serve and their family . it be a strength of this government that we feel open to want additional scrutiny and I be grateful to Members who encourage it . I far encourage member to look at how these power can be strengthen and scrutinise over the course of the Bill ' s passage . a number of member speak about the Bill ' s application to veteran . I be grateful to all who speak about the important contribution of those people who have serve our armed force and serve our nation in year past . the Bill be deliberately draw to focus relentlessly on armed force personnel serve today and their family . that be not because we wish to discard the experience of veteran ; far from it . it be because we believe — look at the continuous attitude survey , the fall morale and more people leave our armed force than join — there be a problem that need to be address for those people who serve our nation . the power of the Armed Forces Commissioner be deliberately draw to focus on those people who serve . it be explicit in the Bill that we be deal with people who serve in uniform today and their family , and we make no apology for do so . however , a number of issue have be raise in the debate , and I shall be grateful if those who have raise they continue to take they up with the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , who be keen for we not only to support veteran but , in particular , to look at the exist programme and policy to ensure that they be worthwhile . many soldier and other service personnel suffer from post - traumatic stress disorder and may be reluctant to come forward and seek help , but the people who know they good be their family , who can do so on their behalf . that be the great thing about the Bill : it provide that opportunity . the hon . Gentleman be right about the important role that family play in support not just serve personnel but veteran . I be grateful to he for mention family , and to a number of other member who speak passionately about that important role that they play and the need for the commissioner to be open to representation from family member . I be particularly grateful to the hon . member for Slough , who speak about bereaved family in an intervention during the Secretary of State ' s speech . the Bill do not give an exact definition of family member ; that will be include in secondary legislation that will be publish between the House of Commons and House of Lords stage . I be glad that the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell talk about kinship carer , and I should be happy to discuss they with she . we want to get this right , and put such a definition in the Bill will enable it to be lock in . I want member on both side of the House to feel empower to challenge we and help we to provide that definition , so that the Bill be draft adequately to help serve personnel and their family to deal with service life — and that must include all the shape and size of family as they exist today . a number of member mention the spending of 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , to which the Government be commit . the Bill state explicitly that the Armed Forces Commissioner will deal with general service welfare matter . I think it important for I to put that on record , because the commissioner will be deal with the live experience of those who serve and their family . this will not involve look into " Secret Squirrel " operation or operational deployment , or the spending of 2 . 5 % , 2 . 4 % or any other figure ; it will involve look specifically at the welfare of those who serve . however , I realise that a number of member want to make point about the 2 . 5 % , and I will continue to encourage they to do so . I hope that they also welcome the extra £ 3 billion for defence that be announce in the Budget only a few week ago . several Members speak about the armed force covenant and this new Government ' s manifesto commitment to put it fully into law . I reassure they that the determination to do that be strong in the ministerial team . the Defence Secretary himself have make it clear that he want it to be include in the armed force Bill , which be the next piece of legislation on which the MOD will be work . I be grateful to the Members who speak so passionately about the importance of the covenant in their constituency . my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent Central and for Hartlepool in particular , as well as my hon . friend the Member for Colchester and my next - door neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Moor View , speak with passion about armed force champion . my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Moor View and I share a brilliant armed force champion in Councillor Pauline Murphy , and her determination and fierce approach to protect and support the armed force family be precisely what I hope to see in the Armed Forces Commissioner , because we need someone who will focus relentlessly on improve service life . when the Bill go into Committee next month we shall be able to explore these issue in more detail , but — particularly for the benefit of the Royal British Legion and Poppyscotland — will the Minister , before he sit down , update the House on what point we have reach in respect of the national veterans commissioner ? the right hon . Gentleman may have miss my early suggestion that member should take up their point with the Minister for Veterans and People , because this Bill be about serve personnel . however , I recognise the genuine concern feel by the organisation that he have mention , and I encourage he to speak to the Veterans Minister , who be currently look at representation for veteran . I expect the commissioner to have relationship with a host of organisation across the country , and I be happy for that to be pick up . the hon . member for Strangford ask serious question — as I believe do the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford — about what will happen with a complaint be process by the current Service Complaints Ombudsman for the Armed Forces that be transfer to the Armed Forces Commissioner . if it be a service complaint , and the complaint relate to a period of service and be raise within the time limit , the Armed Forces Commissioner will continue to investigate even if the complainant have leave the force . that be the same as the current SCOAF position . for new Armed Forces Commissioner investigation , it will be at the discretion of the commissioner whether to continue the investigation , bear in mind that their investigation will be largely thematic , rather than pick up individual case . I hope that reassure member that the work will continue and any complaint currently be handle by the SCOAF will be continue . that give I a good opportunity to thank our current scoaf , Mariette Hughes , and her team for their work . the Bill be design deliberately not to adjust the service complaint system . the opportunity to do so in legislation may exist in an armed force Bill , and I be happy to speak to member who have concern about the legislation relate to service complaint so that we can make sure that any edit require be include in the next such Bill . a number of member ask who can raise a complaint with the Armed Forces Commissioner . I be pleased to confirm that whether someone be a regular , a reserve , a recruit or a re - joiner , they will be able to raise an issue with the commissioner , as will family member of those people , in relation to the commissioner ' s investigation work . that relate to the rank and grade question . we expect everyone , especially within defence , to treat the Armed Forces Commissioner with respect . the Secretary of State will be require by law to assist the commissioner with their investigation , and the appointment process that we be seek to start will be for a very senior appointment . I reassure colleague that the commissioner will require security clearance at a high level , because of the visit that they may make to military establishment , and they will be bind by the Official Secrets Act . any investigation and anything they come across on their base visit will be hold in the secrecy and at the classification that it deserve . there be a number of question about digital access . it will be up to the commissioner to decide how people will be able to raise an issue with they , rather than for we to specify it in the Bill , but I understand the issue that colleague have raise and I would expect the commissioner to be fully accessible on various platform , both digital and non - digital . my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ask the devolution question . as this be a reserved matter , it be the responsibility of the Westminster Parliament to deal with it here . however , it be conceivable that the Armed Forces Commissioner may investigate an issue that be the responsibility of the Westminster Government in England but be devolve to Wales , Scotland or Northern Ireland . in such circumstance , we anticipate that the Armed Forces Commissioner would engage with devolved Assemblies and Administrations , and I would expect a relationship to be form between they over time so that any issue could be address fully . the legislation will be for the MOD to apply , and report will ultimately flow through the House of Commons Defence Committee , but I recognise what my hon . friend say and I hope that , through the operation of the Bill , that will be develop . I be really grateful to the shadow Secretary of State for join I in one of my nerdy pursuit in defence legislation and ask why Gibraltar be not cover . as a former Defence Minister , he will know that the reason Gibraltar be often exclude from defence legislation , separate from other overseas territory , be that it have an agreement with the United Kingdom to replicate the Armed Forces Act in its own legislation , but serve personnel and their family station in Gibraltar should be in no doubt that they will be able to access the Armed Forces Commissioner . I reassure the hon . member for Strangford that clause 6 ( 1 ) clearly set out that the Bill will apply to Northern Ireland and , indeed , all member of our United Kingdom family of nation . a number of colleague mention the commissioner ' s budget . the budget have be model on input from the german model . that be why we be propose an increase from the current SCOAF budget to £ 4 . 5 million to £ 5 . 5 million . the shadow Minister wonder why that figure arise a few time in the debate . if he turn to page 12 of the explanatory note , he will see that it say " £ 4 . 5 - £ 5 . 5 m " . I suspect that be the reason why so many member raise the figure , but it will be for the commissioner to determine how many staff they wish to employ , in what role and how the budget be allocate . the Chair of the Defence Committee ask how the Bill sit with our broad strategy for our armed force personnel . this be our first step in our work of renew the contract between the nation and those who serve . it be exactly right , as be mention early , that it form only one part of what we have announce . the wraparound childcare announcement that the Secretary of State make at the weekend be a good example of the direction of travel that people serve in our armed force should expect from this government : a clear direction that say we will look not only at the kit , capability and doctrine in the strategic defence review , but at the live experience for each and every one who serve , to see how we can improve it . that relate to the broad strategy about how we can measure success — not only in term of the live experience improvement and the additional scrutiny of such issue , but the opportunity for we to do that . I may disagree with my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North on where the home of the Royal Navy be , as I represent Devonport in Plymouth , but I be grateful for all the contribution . finally , I echo the word of my hon . friend the Member for Aldershot , who sum up the debate very well when she say that armed force personnel " just want the basic equipment that they need to be able to do their job and a good life for their family … because if they be willing to fight for we , it be the very least that we can do . " I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Armed Forces Commissioner Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Tuesday 17 December 2024 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . Armed Forces Commissioner Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( a ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State , and ( b ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , proceed of Crime that the draft Criminal Finances Act 2017 and Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 ( Consequential Amendments ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , be approve . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Local Loans that the draft Local Loans ( Increase of Limit ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 9 October , be approve . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . Modernisation Committee Ordered , that Chris Philp be discharge from the Modernisation Committee and Jesse Norman be add . — ( Lucy Powell . ) restoration and Renewal Programme Board Ordered , that this House : ( 1 ) appoint Judith Cummins as a member of the Restoration and Renewal Programme Board , and appoint Marie Goldman as a member in place of Wera Hobhouse ; and ( 2 ) appoint Judith Cummins as Chair of the Board . — ( Lucy Powell . ) Finance Committee Ordered , that Matt Bishop , Phil Brickell , Irene Campbell , Ms Nusrat Ghani , Lillian Jones , Kate Osborne and Sean Woodcock be member of the Finance Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Primary School Breakfast Clubs Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) child be go hungry inside crumble school ; that , sadly , be the legacy of 14 year of mismanagement by successive conservative government . when the newly elect Labour Government talk about fix the foundation , this be where that mission begin : invest in our future , give our child the good possible start and support work people across the United Kingdom . the roll - out of Government funding for breakfast club for primary school child be one of the first step in mend the break bedrock of our country . if I may ask , Madam Deputy Speaker , how do you feel when you have not have a decent meal before work ? sluggish ? irritable ? distract ? I can speak only from my own experience — you do not have to answer , Madam Deputy Speaker , as the question be rhetorical . but I be sure other hon . member will agree that debate , hold advice surgery and meeting stakeholder be all a challenge on an empty stomach . why would it be any different for a young child , especially during such an important developmental period ? every day , young child be grow , learn and socialise . their life be be shape , and they be begin their journey of grow up , prepare to face real - world challenge and take up the mantle of the next generation . be rumble stomach conducive to that ? breakfast club allow all child , no matter the socioeconomic background they be bear into or the familial challenge they face , to have a nutritious , decent meal to energise and fuel they during their busy day of learn . success at school should not depend on a stable family life . accord to the Sutton Trust , 38 % of state school teacher have see grow number of pupil come to school hungry . do my hon . friend agree that in place like Milton Keynes , where one in four child live in poverty but few than that qualified for the old free school meal programme , have a breakfast club destigmatise the situation and catch those family who be struggle to make end meet ? these family might be work , but they do not qualify under the previous scheme . my hon . friend make an excellent point about the importance of free breakfast club in get rid of the stigma . one in 10 young people live in a household class as food insecure . during the covid pandemic , pupil from family use food bank attain , on average , GCSE grade half a grade low than their peer . we know that work people be face some of the tough economic condition in decade . the price of essential have skyrocket , childcare have become a luxury for many , and many parent feel as though they have be leave out in the cold as they continue to do their level well to give their child a well future . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . there be such a crowd in the Chamber because we all agree with he . Northern Ireland launch the extended school programme in May 2006 . since then , some £ 167 million have be give to the most disadvantaged area to offer a wide range of service , include free breakfast club , and it have be successful . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the Government and Parliament must provide great central funding to ensure that all UK school can offer free breakfast club to give child a good breakfast to boost their energy level for the day ? quite simply , hungry child do not learn . I fully agree with the hon . gentleman . he be right both to highlight Northern Ireland and to make the wide point . he be a regular feature of Adjournment debate , and I feel honoured that he have intervene on I . the Minister and the Government need only see the number of member in the Chamber at half - past 9 , here to speak on behalf of their constituent and underline the importance of universal breakfast club . the Institute for Fiscal Studies report that family whose child use breakfast club five day a week during term time save a staggering £ 760 , which be a significant saving for work parent . with the roll - out of funded breakfast club , imagine the money that could remain in the pocket of work family in Slough and beyond . do my hon . friend agree that in a constituency such as Wolverhampton West the provision of breakfast club for primary school child target a number of issue ? first , it give child a nutritious meal so that they do not go to school hungry . secondly , it allow they to socialise with other child before the school day start . and thirdly , it enable parent to go to work know that their child be well provide for in a safe environment . my hon . friend raise exactly the point I will come to later in my speech — he have speak very correctly . there be not just financial or moral incentive for free breakfast club . in Wales , where universal free breakfast club have be roll out , we have see the scheme ' s educational benefit . the Institute for Fiscal Studies find that attendance at breakfast club result in improved healthy eating , a reduction in child skip breakfast and raise attainment for pupil from the age of seven . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech about an issue that everyone in the House agree on . I be lucky enough to visit Manor Way primary school in my constituency , which run a breakfast club . an issue that the school raise , which have also be raise by the Department for Education , be that child on free school meal be less likely to use breakfast club than other child . do my hon . friend agree that as we roll out breakfast club to 700 school across the country , we must focus on ensure pupil on free school meal be able to access breakfast club as well as possible ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . there need to be a universal roll - out . all pupil should benefit , but the positive impact on those who currently rely on free school meal can not be overstate . positive effect have be pass on to pupil who do not attend breakfast club . their result have improve because of calm , more focused classroom environment . the improvement to child ' s attainment and morale that have be see in Wales can not be ignore . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate . he may not know that I be a teacher for almost seven year in north Birmingham . I use to regularly see 11 and 12 - year - old kid come into school have have no breakfast , and with their lunch for the day be a bag of Haribo sweet and a one litre bottle of energy drink . unsurprisingly , those kid have a disproportionate number of detention and behavioural incident , particularly in the afternoon , when they have a sugar crash . do my hon . friend agree that far too often the provision of healthy and nutritious food by breakfast club can be overlook ? my hon . friend speak with a great deal of experience . I be sure the Minister and his team will take the contribution make by hon . member on board because they be set out how we will make a positive impact on the life of those in our community . that be what we be elect to do , draw on our various diverse experience , background and perspective . breakfast club provide further potential benefit . as my hon . friend have highlight , a proper sit - down breakfast , among peer , not only allow child to access healthy food , but encourage the building of interpersonal relationship and the progression of social skill — key aspect of a child ' s development that be often overlook in an educational setting . will the Minister assure I that universal breakfast club will not only provide a healthy meal for young child , but also facilitate and encourage development of vital social skill ? my hon . friend be make a fantastic speech . York Hungry Minds be currently carry out a pilot project examine what happen when school have breakfast club and universal free school meal . do he agree that we need to look at the outcome of that evidence to determine whether some child also require a free school meal in the middle of the day , as well as at the start of the day , to ensure that there be equity in the outcome we be seek ? my hon . friend speak with a great deal of experience . I have see over the last seven or eight year in the House that she have do a great deal of work to counter poverty and some of the bad problem that our society face . everything should be evidence base . it be important that the Government build on that to help our community far . as a biologist and teacher , I believe that link breakfast club with dental hygiene practice will have a significant impact on the long - term health of our child , and indeed of our adult population , and eventually on the NHS and our economy . do my hon . friend agree ? I fully agree . my hon . Friend also speak from experience . I can see many teacher present , and people who be a lot more knowledgeable than I be . I thank she for her contribution . I hope that all member ' contribution will be consider by the Government , because of the far - reach impact that their suggestion would have . as the MP for Slough , I have a particular interest in this matter , which be why I apply for the debate , and I be grateful to the House authority for grant it . a quarter of my constituent be under the age of 15 , which be why I say that we be the youth capital of Britain . sadly , however , 21 % of child in Slough live in relative poverty , and 14 % live in absolute poverty . nearly 7 , 000 be eligible for free school meal , and the roll - out of breakfast club will provide thousand of my Slough constituent with a well start in life . the statistic in Hyndburn be even more shocking , with 38 % of child grow up in poverty . today , statistic from the Social Mobility Commission outline that one in three child across the UK be grow up in poverty . that be the inheritance that we receive , and it be evident from the empty conservative Benches that not everyone in the House take the issue seriously . do my hon . friend agree that it be important that the roll - out of the pilot target community , such as our , that have the high level of deprivation , where we know it will have the most impact ? my hon . friend have be a passionate advocate for her constituent , particularly on these issue . she be 100 % right . as I say in my introductory sentence , where be his Majesty ' s loyal opposition ? no Conservative Members be present . it be important that those who feel passionately advocate on behalf of their constituent in the Chamber . I thank my hon . friend for call the debate , and everybody who have contribute to it . as somebody who grow up in significant financial hardship , I know the importance of receive a warm meal from a school or club . will he join I in commend the work of Pokesdown community primary school and the leadership of Alison Bayliss and Chef Russ in provide nutritious meal to the child at Pokesdown ? will he also commend LOVECHURCH Bournemouth for provide a free breakfast to many child in the local community ? will he reflect on the fact that the Opposition Benches be desert ? after 14 year in government , the conservative really should put somebody up to explain what they do so wrong . I thank my hon . friend for his passionate remark , with which I concur . I commend the great work be do in his constituency . it be important that individual realise some of the damage that they have do over the last 14 year , which have lead to crumble school and to child be unable to concentrate in school . a well chance for child to reach their potential and escape the vicious cycle of poverty can be attain . to ensure that , I ask the Minister when we can expect the roll - out of free breakfast club to be fully implement . will that require new legislation ? if so , what be the timeframe ? I thank my hon . friend for ensure that this important subject be highlight in the House . in my constituency , school such as Connaught school for girl ensure that every child receive a free school meal at the start of the day through charity such as Magic Breakfast , which enable up to 200 , 000 pupil across both in England and Scotland to receive that privilege . however , do he agree that it should not be down to club and advocacy group to ensure that provision , and rather it should be do through policy drive by Government ? I thank my hon . friend and fellow member of the Defence Committee — not only have he be a passionate advocate on defence , but he have advocate for his constituent on numerous matter today . I fully concur with his view . I have attend various Magic Breakfast event and see some of the great work do by charity ; it be wonderful and heartening to see that there be people who care within our community , but it should not be just up to charity . this be an issue affect everybody within society , and it be great to see a new Labour Government take leadership on it . in the Fulham part of my constituency , child in primary school have enjoy free breakfast since 2019 . the council initially negotiate that from developer and now it pay for they itself . it have also start provide free school lunch at one of the school in Fulham . do my hon . friend agree that the threshold for child to receive free school meal be currently far too high , and that we ought to be aim for every child to be give a free breakfast and a free lunch , to avoid the stigma that can damage child ' s confidence and impair their performance ? it be wonderful to see some of the work happen within my hon . friend ' s constituency . that be another aspect of this debate , because normally his constituency would be associate with be more affluent , but among all of our constituency there be pocket of serious social deprivation and child go without the meal that be require . I be sure that the Minister will have hear his view and I be hopeful that in due course that be something that the Government may well be able to implement . free breakfast club be about fight not only poverty , but obesity . in Slough , shockingly , 26 % of child age 11 to 12 be obese . we also see a high - than - average prevalence of cardiovascular disease . " tired , hungry and cold . " that be how one headteacher tell I a number of her pupil come to school feeling , when I visit a primary school in Torbay last week . I be impressed with how her team be support those youngster , both emotionally and with material support , whether for hunger or for feel cold . it be very sad that one of the pupil be show a blanket to other because it be keep they warm . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the more opportunity we give for youngster in our school to get warm meal , the more we can drive positive change for our community ? order . I can tell from the number of contribution that this debate be important to many colleague . however , member should be here at the beginning of the debate if they wish to make intervention . thank you very much for that clarification , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention ; he be 100 % right . I take this moment also to pay tribute to the amazing teacher and staff at school who go way beyond the call of duty to look after child , and who be face not only with young hungry child , but sometimes with child who do not even have clean uniform because , with the cost of living pressure , their family can not get their school uniform wash regularly . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate . I want to raise the work that our teacher and school staff do to ensure that our child get a hot meal at lunch time — and now , hopefully , in the morning as well . we must ensure that we give our child the good start on a school day , and the roll - out of breakfast club will help we to do that . my hon . friend be 100 % right . I hope that teacher and teaching staff will take comfort and solace from the fact that policy be now be implement to help , rather than hinder , they . they will be able to do their primary duty of educate kid and broaden their horizon , rather than have to worry about feeding and clothe they in an appropriate manner . healthy habit start early . what consideration will be give to the nutritional value of meal provide to child ? as the Minister will know , ensure that all child be give a nutritious and healthy meal when they come to school will improve not only attainment , but health outcome . it be not just child whose life will be improve via access to breakfast club , because indirect economic benefit will also stem from this scheme . right now , 20 % of mother who have their young child in primary school be unemployed , and 35 % be in part - time employment . with childcare cost ballooning , great access to round - the - clock care will mean that parent do not have their career dictate by the school run . parent will have more support and independence to find full - time employment . rise — I will give way to the Mayor of West of England , no less . do my hon . friend share my dismay that the Opposition Benches be empty , although this be such an important issue for rural community such as the one I represent , where the geography make social isolation a big issue ? breakfast club be very important in deal with that isolation , and I be amazed that there be not more , or indeed any , Members on the Opposition Benches . give his experience from his mayoral role , my hon . friend will be fully cognisant of some of the issue face by our rural community . yes , it be flabbergast to see not a single member of his Majesty ' s opposition on those Benches , because they should highlight these issue . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on secure this debate and take so many good intervention . my constituency be very rural , and school be already suffer with funding . do he agree that school must be give sufficient funding to provide this service , because their budget be very stretch ? we must ensure that this scheme be properly fund — and that rural area get the funding that be need , and that it be not all about big urban area . the hon . Gentleman serve as a council leader , and have make an excellent point about funding . how will this provision be effectively fund , to help our school , and how will we ensure that council can provide that extra support as and where require ? I be sure the Minister will have hear the point that he eloquently make . free breakfast club do not just alleviate the strain on low - income family ; they also level the play field for man and woman in work . that be just part of this Government ' s mission to smash the glass ceiling , as well as the class ceiling . with 381 , 000 pupil currently use breakfast club every day , it be essential to ensure that those who want to access they can do so . what step be the Government take to ensure that family be make aware of this important service , as universal breakfast club be gradually roll out ? universal breakfast club will ensure that when our child turn up to school , they be learn and develop , fuel by healthy , nutritious food . after all , breakfast be the most important meal of the day . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) for secure a debate on this important subject , and for his characteristically passionate contribution on behalf of his constituent . I also thank all those who have make intervention tonight . this government believe that all child deserve access to a brilliant education , regardless of who they be , where they come from or their parent ' income . we want to work hand in hand with the sector to deliver a system that mean that child start school ready to learn , ready to seize opportunity and ready to get on in life . the Government make a manifesto commitment to introduce free breakfast club for primary school child , and we confirm in the autumn Budget that we will triple our investment in breakfast club to more than £ 30 million in the 2025 - 26 financial year . that funding will support breakfast club in up to 750 early adopter school from as early as April next year , as part of our test - and - learn phase , ahead of national roll - out . I urge my hon . friend to encourage school in his constituency to apply when bidding open . that be the first step in the Government ' s commitment to fund breakfast club in all state school with primary - aged child . that investment include our continued support for 2 , 700 school that be on the exist national school breakfast programme . one of those school be Montem Academy , a primary school in Slough in my hon . friend ' s constituency . breakfast club will remove barrier to opportunity by ensure that primary school child , no matter their circumstance , be ready to start the school day . that will help to drive improvement in behaviour , attendance and attainment . breakfast club offer much more than just food . they can serve as a welcome space for child , provide valuable opportunity for they to play , learn and socialise at the beginning of the school day . they will also provide family with more affordable childcare choice and increase parent ' ability to work more hour . it be important that child eat healthily across the school day . breakfast club in every primary school , along with the continue provision of free school meal to disadvantaged child , will play an important role in combat hunger and make sure that child can listen and concentrate throughout the school day . as my hon . friend identifie , it be important that child eat nutritious food at school . the school food standard define the food and drink that must be provide , those that be restrict and those that must not be provide . they apply to food and drink provide to pupil on school premise and during an extended school day up to 6 pm . that include breakfast club . compliance with standard be mandatory for maintain school , academy and free school . the standard restrict food high in fat , salt and sugar , include high - sugar food and confectionery . they ensure that child get the energy and nutrition that they need across the school day , and that pupil always have healthy option . my hon . Friend ask about timeframe . he will know that we have already take decisive action by announce in the King ' s Speech that , under the child ' s wellbee Bill , every primary school in England will offer a free breakfast club . legislate for breakfast club provision will give school the certainty that they need . I can confirm that the Bill will come to the House as soon as parliamentary time allow . in conclusion , I once again thank my hon . friend for secure a debate on this important topic . I look forward to work with he and other hon . and right hon . member across the House who have contribute to tonight ' s debate , as we deliver our manifesto commitment on free breakfast club in all primary school to secure the good start in life for every child , in every part of the country . question put and agree to . House adjourn .