I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . in this place , our nation ' s Parliament , change come in many form . sometimes it be the clamour of the picket line , the lobby group or Members ' own interest . sometimes it come in the shape of an MP ' s constituency surgery and the quiet work man ; a man who know what be right and wrong , who seize injustice and internal fury and propel it to this place to be remedie . he fight not for himself — he know the barrier that he face — but for every man , woman and every one of we , as we face the cruel certainty of age , and age discrimination in the workplace . the man be Stephen Horne . I be proud that he be my constituent , and I be proud today to speak to Stephen ' s Bill . stand with he on tackle the endemic age discrimination in our society . the Bill aim to address the provision at the heart of the nation ' s challenge . Jo Gideon ( Stoke - on - Trent Central ) ( Con ) : I support my hon . friend ' s Bill , as she know . the protection of other characteristic — gender , race and religion , for example — be generally observe in employment law . do she agree that pervasive age discrimination be a big issue that we need to tackle , as her Bill will do in a small but important way ? Mrs Elphicke : my hon . friend be exactly right . age discrimination be absolutely pervasive in our society . it be such a common experience that one in three people report have experience it . we must tackle that injustice . the Bill repeal paragraph 14 of schedule 9 to the Equality Act 2010 , which allow workplace benefit to be remove from a work person solely by reason of their come to statutory pensionable age . I be pleased to introduce the Bill under the ten - minute rule last year , and I be pleased to bring it back today with strong support from so many member across the House who , like I , believe that we urgently need to tackle this issue . People in their 50 and 60 commonly experience discrimination because of their age , and 37 % of those incident be at work , accord to the Centre for Ageing Better . one in five employer believe that age discrimination occur in their organisation , and many argue that ageism be a key barrier for people age 50 to 64 who want to return to or remain in their workplace . paragraph 14 allow active discrimination under the law , and so open the door to other form of indirect and unconscious bias discrimination . that be well explore by the Women and Equalities Committee , which say that it be clear that there be " prejudice , unconscious bias and casual ageism in the workplace " , as well as inadequate challenge to current practice . Stephen be a train driver with Eurotunnel . he help to build the tunnel before it first open 30 year ago , and he have drive a train since the very first go through the tunnel . when he reach the age of 66 , his boss decide to remove his workplace benefit relate to income protection and long - term sickness , and his health insurance . that put Stephen at a disadvantage compare with other worker . he be do the same job at 66 as he do at 65 , but now he do not get the same money ' s worth , or the same term and condition in his contract of employment . in simple term , Stephen do not get pay and condition equal to those of a young worker solely by reason of his age . that be not right . if Stephen fall ill , he can not get the same access to speedy private healthcare that other people in his company get , include for a workplace injury , which mean that he might be out of the workplace for long . if — heaven forbid — he die , his wife Marsha would no long have the compensatory insurance through death - in - service benefit that another worker ' s family would be entitle to , yet Stephen be do exactly the same job as he be before he reach retirement age . when look into Stephen ' s case , I be shock to discover that such age discrimination be legal . the Equality Act 2010 be suppose to provide protection for old people against age discrimination . age be , as my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) rightly say , a protect characteristic , and it need to be treat as such . that exception in the Act mean that Stephen and worker up and down the land face discrimination , and similar issue with term and condition . we need to tackle that issue , because people be stay in the workplace long , and because it be unfair and wrong . it need to be tackle in this place through a change in the law . I have have discussion with company about why they do not just do the right thing , why they do not change this unfair practice , and why they do not look after all their worker well . the answer that I have have be simple : they will not do that until we in this Parliament say that they must , because they do not want to have to pay more by offer those term and condition . the bottom line be that they do not want old worker like Stephen . that be not right , and it be not something this country can afford , either . People be work until a much old age ; that have become more acute as the Government have change the pensionable age . Stephen ' s Bill seek to put right the situation for every old worker in this country by change the law on workplace benefit , so that old people be treat the same as other in any other part of the employment relationship . we know why this matter . there be a time when a pregnant woman have to quit her job and leave the workplace ; indeed , there be a time when woman be not welcome in many workplace . there be a time when woman be not give pay maternity leave , man be not give pay paternity leave and woman would not get job if they be of childbeare age . we have address that through Parliament over decade . now employer find that retain woman in the workplace — indeed , have they at the very top level in the boardroom — benefit not just mother , but business . business can now retain the vital skill , knowledge and commitment of female worker , and that need to happen in relation to old worker too . old worker have skill and knowledge gain over many year in the workplace . treat old worker fairly will encourage they to stay , and benefit the company they work for . I remember a time when employer use to say that a woman do not need to work , get the same bonus as a man or be offer overtime , because man need those opportunity in order to feed their family . we outlaw that because equal pay at work matter and equal opportunity at work matter , too . that apply every bit as much whether it be a young or old worker do the job . another excuse that be give be that cover old people become more expensive for everyone , because the premium for the company go up . that is , of course , absurd . apply that logic , would it be okay to exclude from employment benefit people who have have a heart condition , cancer , a bad back , a disability or a chronic condition , on the basis that the insurance might go up ? of course not . it would not be lawful , and it should not be lawful for that to happen simply because of someone ' s age . we have say in other case that take away someone ' s work benefit be discriminatory and wrong , and it be discriminatory and wrong to do so simply because they have get old . that be something that none of we can influence or affect ; it will happen to we all . even in this place and , as we have hear recently , even in Government , people ' s term and condition and severance pay differ depend on the age at which they take their role or responsibility . it be time for we to amend this great injustice . Stephen know that the challenge that he face in change the mind of his boss be enormous , and there be no indication that they be prepared to do that . however , I know from speak to business that there be thing that the Government can do , beyond change the law , to ensure that this injustice be address . that could include ensure there be compensatory payment to give equivalence , on an equal pay basis , to people who do not have access to the same pay and condition as other . that mean make it unlawful for those offer insurance to have that kind of discriminatory condition , which we should do . this be such an important time for our nation , as we look for everyone to contribute , and require people to work in , old life . it be essential that we put in place the right law , protection and framework , so that whatever people want to do in old age , they be treat fairly and equally . that be the reason that Stephen have ask I — the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 15 March .