thank you , Madam Chair . before I talk about Plymouth , may I celebrate the amazing speech that we have hear this afternoon , and pay tribute to the wealth of experience and passion , not just on the Government Benches but across the Chamber ? it be really heartening . my hon . friend the Member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) speak about the spirit that we have all see in the community that we represent , and the confidence that he have in that spirit to overcome some of the challenge that we be face as a nation and in our community . I completely share that . let I now talk about Plymouth , the city that I call home and the city that I be so proud to represent in this place as the Member for Plymouth Moor View . I want to talk about our people , our institution , our roll hill , grey warship glint in the south coast sun and the noise that 43 , 000 Argyle fan make on match day . I want to talk about the gritty determination of staff at one of the big hospital in the country , and I want to talk about hope . I will frame this speech with two principle that I live by during my time in the Royal Marines , principle that be well know amongst the armed force community in Plymouth . first , a leader must be a dealer of hope . when the chip be down , leader have to step forward and give hope . I believe that be our job in Parliament too . in Plymouth , community come together to give each other hope . there be immense strength and resilience in the street , the housing estate , the front room and wherever folk get together and organise to change the life they and their neighbour be live , make simple , tangible change by address the need in front of they . we have Whitleigh Big Local , the four Greens Community Trust and Connecting Youth CIC , to name just a few , work in partnership with the local community to improve the thing that matter and to bring hope . I want to use my position in this House to empower our community to effect change and generate hope that life will get well and that family can be lift out of poverty . today , relative child poverty in Plymouth Moor View be at 23 % , set against the regional figure of 17 % . I will not accept rise child poverty , because the second principle that I live by , one I believe a lot of we share , be this : " the standard you walk past be the standard you accept . " if we see something that we know be wrong and we keep walk , we be effectively say we be happy with that situation . the hard option be not to walk past , but to take action . Derriford hospital in Plymouth serve almost 2 million people across Devon and Cornwall . I have meet the nurse , paramedic , doctor and volunteer , who do fantastic work under immense pressure . they be people who do not just walk past . however , the hospital be up against it : in June alone , there be 5 , 000 instance where a patient wait more than four hour in A & E . that represent a series of personal tragedy for the patient affect . with the new Government , I will work tirelessly to change that story . away from the hospital , the beat heart of our city be Plymouth Argyle football club , which be in its second season now in the championship , make it one of the top club in the English football league . yet in Plymouth , many family struggle to afford access to sport for their kid . I be a keen footballer and I believe in the power of sport to set young people up for life . I will use my platform to improve access to sport in Plymouth , because a standard where this country have the fine football league , watch the world over , but our own youngster can not afford to play be not a standard I will walk past . I pay tribute to the excellent work that the Argyle community trust and the Plymouth football boot bank do already to broaden access to sport in Plymouth . as a former Royal Marines commando , it be a particular privilege to represent the city that be home to not only the large naval base in western Europe , but the Royal Marines , who be still headquarter in Plymouth . Ours be a city where so many resident have serve in uniform , and I take this opportunity to thank every single one of they for their service and dedication . I also pay tribute to my predecessor for his heartfelt effort to raise the profile of the veteran agenda . for century , Plymouth have have a proud military history , and the Prime Minister recently call it " the frontline of defence in this country " . Navy , Marines and Army personnel have deploy from Plymouth for hundred of year . the tradition of proud military service run through our city like the writing in a stick of rock . now , as we find ourselves as a country in another moment of critical international instability , Plymouth be again a keystone of our national security . devonport dockyard be the home port for the frigate , survey vessel and amphibious shipping that be crucial for our safety . it be also where the submarine that host our nuclear deterrent be maintain , and will be for generation to come . we be also home to highly skilled small and medium - sized enterprise such as MSubs — maker of unmanned submersible craft use in the most special military project — Barden bearing and Collins Aerospace , whose cutting - edge engineering be integral to the UK ' s modern weapon system . from our military institution and our manufacture base to our hospital , our football club and our dockyard , we stand up and we serve in Plymouth . we give a lot to this nation , but for all this — if I can borrow a phrase from a friend and a constant source of advice , my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) — Plymouth do not get its fair share . I will work tirelessly with the Government to change that , because in Labour we respect service , and our will be a Government of service — a Government of hope . as I serve my country before in uniform , so I will serve my city now in office . as I be train to do in the Marines , I will strive to be a dealer of hope . when it come to take action , I will remember , along with colleague on both side of the House , that the standard we walk past be the standard we accept .