with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 40 — political fund : requirement to pass political resolution . government new clause 41 — industrial action ballot : support threshold . government new clause 42 — Notice of industrial action ballot and sample voting paper for employer . government new clause 43 — period after which industrial action ballot cease to be effective . government new clause 44 — power to give notice of underpayment . government new clause 45 — calculation of the require sum . government new clause 46 — period to which notice of underpayment may relate . government new clause 47 — notice of underpayment : further provision . government new clause 48 — penalty for underpayment . government new clause 49 — further provision about penalty . government new clause 50 — suspension of penalty where criminal proceeding have be bring etc . government new clause 51 — Appeals against notice of underpayment . government new clause 52 — Withdrawal of notice of underpayment . government new clause 53 — replacement notice of underpayment . government new clause 54 — effect of replacement notice of underpayment . government new clause 55 — enforcement of requirement to pay sum due to individual . government new clause 56 — enforcement of requirement to pay penalty . government new clause 57 — power to bring proceeding in employment tribunal . government new clause 58 — power to provide legal assistance . government new clause 59 — Recovery of cost of legal assistance . government new clause 60 — power to recover cost of enforcement . new clause 8 — Prison officer : inducement to withhold service — " in section 127 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 ( inducement to withhold service or to indiscipline ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , omit paragraph ( a ) ; ( b ) omit subsection ( 1A ) ; ( c ) omit subsection ( 7 ) . " this new clause would repeal provision in the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 that prohibit induce a prison officer to take ( or continue to take ) any industrial action . new clause 9 — Inducement of prison officer : exempt person — " after section 127A of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 ( inducement to withhold service or to indiscipline ) , insert — " Section 127b : Prison officer and trade union : exempt person section 127 ( inducement to withhold service or to indiscipline ) do not apply to — ( a ) any list trade union represent prison officer , or ( b ) any person act on behalf of a list trade union represent prison officer . " " this new clause would repeal , with respect to trade union represent prison officer , provision that prohibit the inducement of industrial action or indiscipline by a prison officer . new clause 19 — right to be accompany — " ( 1 ) section 10 of the Employment Relations Act 1999 ( right to be accompany ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 3 ) , after paragraph ( b ) insert — " ( ba ) person who have be reasonably certify in writing by a Professional Body as have experience of , or as have receive training in , act as a worker ' s companion at disciplinary or grievance hearing , or " ( 3 ) after subsection ( 7 ) insert — " ( 8 ) in this section , " Professional Body " mean any organisation which be authorise by a regulation make by the Secretary of State pursuant to subsection ( 9 ) . ( 9 ) the Secretary of State may make a regulation or regulation authorise any organisation as a Professional Body for the purpose of this section . " " this new clause would expand the right to be accompany by a certify companion at disciplinary and grievance hearing . new clause 28 — enforcement against company subject to insolvency or voluntary liquidation — " ( 1 ) a Labour Market Enforcement Strategy under section 81 must include — ( a ) the Secretary of State ' s assessment of — ( i ) the scale and nature of non - compliance with employment tribunal award due to insolvency or voluntary liquidation during the period of three year end immediately before the strategy period ; ( ii ) the scale and nature of such non - compliance involve phoenixe during the same period ; and ( iii ) the likely scale and nature of such non - compliance during the strategy period ; ( b ) a proposal for the strategy period set out how enforcement function of the Secretary of State be to be exercise in relation to such non - compliance . ( 2 ) an annual report under section 82 must include ― ( a ) an assessment of the effect of the applicable strategy on the scale and nature of non - compliance with employment tribunal award , include non - compliance due to insolvency or voluntary liquidation , and ( b ) an assessment of the effect of the applicable strategy on the scale and nature of non - compliance involve phoenixe . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , " phoenixe " mean the practice of dissolve or otherwise close a business and establish a new one with a similar purpose , with the effect of avoid the enforcement of employment tribunal award or other debt . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to include , in the Labour Market Enforcement Strategy and annual report under this Bill , information about non - compliance with employment tribunal award by , and enforcement against , company order to pay such award that have be subject to insolvency or voluntary liquidation , include in instance in which the director go on to set up a similar company to avoid enforcement . new clause 29 — Trade union representative : right not to suffer career detriment — " ( 1 ) in Part v of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( protection from suffer detriment in employment ) , after section 47 ( 1A ) , insert — " ( 1b ) this section apply where the detriment in question relate to matter of internal promotion or progression . " ( 2 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) to ( 6 ) . ( 3 ) in the italic title before section 137 , after " access to employment " , add " and career progression " . ( 4 ) after section 138 , insert — " 138A Career progression ( 1 ) an employer must ensure that any employee undertake trade union representative duty do not experience detriment in matter of internal career progression as a result of the employee ' s trade union activity . ( 2 ) where an employee who be a trade union representative have not be appoint to a more senior role , in circumstance in which the employee meet the minimum criterion for the role and demonstrate that criterion through the application , the employer must provide a write statement . ( 3 ) the write statement under subsection ( 2 ) must include evidence to demonstrate that the decision not to appoint the employee be not affect by the employee ' s trade union activity . 138b Career progression : support for trade union representative an employer must have in place a policy to support the career progression of employee who be trade union representative . the policy must set out ― ( a ) how the employee will be support in matter of internal progression and promotion ; and ( b ) how the employer will consider trade union experience in assess application for more senior role . " " ( 5 ) in section 140 ( 1 ) , after " section 138 " insert " or 138A " . ( 6 ) in section 142 ( 1 ) , after " section 138 " insert " or 138A " . " " this new clause would enhance protection to trade union representative , extend they to cover detriment in matter of career progression , and would require employer to demonstrate that they have not deny promotion to trade union representative as a result of their trade union activity . it would also require employer to have a policy in place to support the career progression of employee who be trade union representative . new clause 31 — removal of secondary action provision — " in the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 , omit section 224 ( secondary action ) . " new clause 64 — duty of trade union — " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 219 ( protection from certain tort liability ) , after subsection ( 4 ) insert — " ( 5 ) but subsection ( 4 ) do not have effect in relation to any act in contemplation or furtherance of a trade dispute which relate wholly or mainly to proposal by an employer to vary term and condition of employment of two or more employee accompany by the threat ( explicit or implied ) of dismissal if that variation be not agree . " " new clause 65 — Personal Liability for breach of tribunal order — " ( 1 ) where , in relation to a body corporate — ( a ) a financial order make by an employment tribunal or agree by the claimant and the body corporate ; or - ( b ) an order of reinstatement or re - engagement make by an employment tribunal or agree by the claimant and the body corporate have not be fulfil by the date specify in the order or agreement , without reasonable excuse , and that failure be prove — ( a ) to have be commit with the consent or connivance of an officer of the body , or ( b ) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an officer , that officer shall be personally liable to reimburse the claimant in whose favour the order have be make or agree . ( 2 ) an officer find liable for reimbursement under subsection ( 1 ) may be disqualify as a director or prevent from become a director . " new clause 66 — public sector contracting : trade union recognition — " ( 1 ) the Procurement Act 2023 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in part ( 2 ) ( principle and objective ) , after section 14a insert — " 14b obligation of contractor to recognise trade union ( 1 ) the Secretary of State have a duty to ensure that any contract enter into by a — ( a ) government department ; ( b ) executive agency of government ; ( c ) non departmental public body ; or ( d ) non Ministerial department , be compliant with the requirement set out in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) a contract under subsection ( 1 ) must ─ ( a ) recognise an independent trade union for the purpose of collective bargaining , and ( b ) take step to ensure that any sub - contractor to the contractor which carry out any obligation under the public contract recognise an independent trade union for the purpose of collective bargaining . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , " recognise " , " independent trade union " and " collective bargaining " have the same meaning as in the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . ( 4 ) an independent trade union may make a complaint against a contracting authority , which be a party to a public contract , that it or a contractor or sub - contractor which carry out any obligation under the public contract be in breach of the term in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 5 ) the complaint may be make to the Central Arbitration Committee . ( 6 ) if the Central Arbitration Committee find the complaint to be well found , it shall grant a declaration to that effect . ( 7 ) where the Central Arbitration Committee make a declaration in accordance with subsection ( 6 ) , it shall order that the respondent contracting authority shall take whatever step appear to the Central Arbitration Committee as necessary to ensure that the contracting authority and every contractor or sub - contractor which carry out any obligation under the public contract comply with the imply term in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 8 ) the step that may be take under subsection ( 7 ) include termination of the contract , which shall not be regard as a breach of contract by the contracting authority concern if a principal reason for the termination be compliance with an order of the Central Arbitration Committee under ( 7 ) . ( 9 ) an appeal lie on a point of law to the Employment Appeal Tribunal by either party to proceeding bring under subsection ( 5 ) . " " new clause 67 — sectoral collective bargaining : 80 per cent coverage — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament an action plan to achieve , within five year , that the principal term and condition of employment of at least 80 percent of worker in the United Kingdom be determine by collective agreement . ( 2 ) the action plan under subsection ( 1 ) must be inform by consultation with organisation represent employer and trade union . " new clause 68 — sectoral collective bargaining : other sector — " ( 1 ) regulation under this Act may include regulation for collective bargaining in other sector of the economy . ( 2 ) regulation make under subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) may only be make follow consultation with representative of worker and employer in those sector ; and ( b ) may provide that agreement reach by such collective bargaining shall apply to the worker and employer in the relevant sector save to the extent that a previous or subsequent collective agreement have provide a more favourable term or condition . " new clause 69 — statement of trade union right — " every employee , worker and self - employ person have the right — ( a ) to join an independent trade union of his choice , subject only to its rule ; ( b ) to take part in the activity of an independent trade union at an appropriate time , subject only to its rule . " new clause 70 — Right of Trade Unions to Access Workplaces — " in part 1 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 ( trade union ) , before chapter 5A , insert — " chapter 5za right of trade union to ACCESS WORKPLACES 70za right of access ( 1 ) a designate official of an independent trade union shall have a right to enter premise occupy by an employer in order to access a workplace or workplace , subject to the condition set out below . ( 2 ) an employer shall not — ( a ) refuse entry to a designate trade union official seek to exercise his or her right of access under sub - section ( 1 ) , or ( b ) otherwise obstruct such an official in the exercise of his or her right of access under sub - section ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) a " designate trade union official " mean a person nominate by the trade union to exercise the right of access on its behalf . 70zb access purpose ( 1 ) the right of access may be exercise for the access purpose . ( 2 ) the access purpose be to — ( a ) meet , represent , recruit or organize worker ( whether or not they be member of a trade union ) ; and ( b ) facilitate collective bargaining . 70ZC notice to employer ( 1 ) the right of access may be exercise only after the designate official of an independent trade union have give notice of an intention to do so to the employer whose premise it be propose to enter for the purpose of access to a workplace or workplace . ( 2 ) the notice must be — ( a ) in writing ; and ( b ) give at least 24 hour before it be intend to exercise the right of access ; ( 3 ) the notice require to be give under subsection ( 2 ) shall — ( a ) specify the purpose for which entry be seek ; and ( b ) identify the worker or category of worker the designate official intend to meet , represent , recruit or organize . ( 4 ) the right of access may be exercise without give notice where there be exceptional circumstance such as to justify access without prior notice . ( 5 ) whether circumstance be exceptional shall be determine by have regard to the relevant provision of a Code of Practice issue by ACAS . 70zd Access condition ( 1 ) the right of access be subject to the follow condition . ( 2 ) the right of access may be exercise — ( a ) only at a reasonable time , and ( b ) subject to reasonable condition impose by the employer . ( 3 ) what be reasonable for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) shall be determine by have regard to the relevant provision of a Code of Practice issue by ACAS . 70ze dwelling ( 1 ) the right of access do not apply to any part of premise which be use exclusively as a dwelling . ( 2 ) where sub - section ( 1 ) apply and only where sub - section ( 1 ) apply , the employer shall provide a reasonable , suitable , and alternative venue to enable the right of access to be exercise . ( 3 ) what be reasonable and suitable for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) shall be determine by have regard to the relevant provision of a Code of Practice issue by ACAS . 70zf enforcement of right of access ( 1 ) where an employer refuse or obstruct access contrary to section 70za , a complaint may be make to the CAC by the trade union of which the designate official be a representative . ( 2 ) where the CAC find the complaint to be well - found it shall make a declaration to that effect and may make an order require the employer to comply with section 70za , subject to such condition as the CAC may determine . ( 3 ) if the CAC make a declaration under subsection ( 2 ) the trade union may , within the period of three month begin with the date on which the declaration be make , make an application to the Employment Appeal Tribunal for a penalty notice to be issue . ( 4 ) where such an application be make , the Employment Appeal Tribunal shall issue a write penalty notice to the employer require the employer to pay a penalty to the trade union in respect of each refusal or obstruction of access unless satisfied , on hear representation from the employer , that the refusal or obstruction of access result from a reason beyond the employer ' s control or that the employer have some other reasonable excuse . ( 5 ) if the CAC make an order under subsection ( 2 ) the order shall be record in the High Court and on be record may be enforce as if it be an order of the High Court . 70zg Penalty notice ( 1 ) a penalty notice issue under section 70zf ( 4 ) shall specify — ( a ) the amount of the penalty which be payable ; ( b ) the date before which the penalty must be pay ; and ( c ) the failure and period to which the penalty relate . ( 2 ) a penalty set by the Employment Appeal Tribunal under section 70zf ( 4 ) may not exceed a prescribed amount . ( 3 ) matter to be take into account by the Employment Appeal Tribunal when set the amount of the penalty shall include — ( a ) the gravity of each refusal or obstruction of access ; ( b ) the period of time over which each refusal or obstruction of access occur ; ( c ) the number of occasion on which each refusal or obstruction of access occur ; ( d ) the reason for each refusal or obstruction of access ; ( e ) the number of worker affect by each refusal or obstruction of access ; and ( f ) the number of worker employ by the undertaking . ( 4 ) the Employment Appeal Tribunal shall also take into account any previous refusal or obstruction of access to a designate official of the independent trade union to which the application relate . ( 5 ) if the specify date in a penalty notice for payment of the penalty have pass and — ( a ) the period during which an appeal may be make have expire without an appeal have be make ; or ( b ) such an appeal have be make and determine , the trade union may recover from the employer , as a civil debt due to it , any amount payable under the penalty notice which remain outstanding . ( 6 ) the making of an appeal suspend the effect of a penalty notice pende the outcome of the appeal . 70zh other provision relate to trade union access ( 1 ) section 70za - 70zg be in addition and without prejudice to any other provision relate to trade union access to worker . ( 2 ) for the avoidance of doubt , the latter include but be not confine to — ( a ) section 188 ( 5A ) of this Act ( b ) Sections 198A and 198b of this Act ; ( c ) Schedule A1 , paragraph 26 and 118 of this Act ; ( d ) ACAS Code of Practice on time off for trade union duty and activity issue under section 199 of this Act , for the time be in force ; and ( e ) any collective agreement which make more favourable provision . " " new clause 82 — Fair Work Agency : review of resource — ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must conduct a review of the resource available to the Fair Work Agency . ( 2 ) the review must be publish and lay before Parliament within six month of this section come into force . " this new clause ask the Secretary of State to review the resource available to the Fair Work Agency to ensure that enforcement of provision in the Act be effective . new clause 88 — rule as to political fund — ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) of section 84 ( contribution to political fund from member of the union ) , after subsection ( 1 ) , insert — " ( 1A ) an opt - in notice under subsection ( 1 ) must include the member of the trade union ' s consent to annual renewal of the contribution to the political fund ( a " renewal opt - in " ) . ( 1b ) the renewal opt - in must be send by the member of the trade union ─ ( a ) within six month of the initial opt - in and every six month thereafter , or ( b ) each time payment be due , at least 28 day before payment be take , whichever be long . ( 1C ) if the member of the trade union do not provide a renewal opt - in , the trade union must provide a date by which the member must notify the trade union of their consent to continue contribution towards the political fund , which must be no early than 28 day before the next payment to the political fund be due . ( 1d ) if the member have not — ( a ) opt into an arrangement under subsection ( 1A ) or ( 1b ) , or ( b ) give notification of their consent to continue contribution by the date specify under subsection ( 1C ) , their payment to the political fund must cease before the renewal date . " " this new clause will ensure that trade union member be ask whether they wish their contribution to the political fund to renew automatically and would require that , if the member do not wish to renew their contribution , the union must provide a date by which the member have to confirm they wish to continue to contribute . new clause 89 — Certification Officer : growth duty — " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 254 ( the Certification Officer ) , after subsection ( 2 ) , insert — " ( 2A ) in discharge the function of the Certification Office , the Certification Officer must , so far as reasonably possible , act in such a way as to advance the follow objective — ( a ) the international competitiveness of the economy of the United Kingdom ; and ( b ) economic growth of the United Kingdom in the medium to long term . " " this new clause would require the Certification Officer to advance the objective of the international competitiveness of the economy and its growth in the medium to long term . new clause 90 — Regulations under Part 4 — " when make regulation under Part 4 of this Act , the Secretary of State must have regard to the follow objective — ( a ) the international competitiveness of the economy of the United Kingdom ; and ( b ) the economic growth of the United Kingdom in the medium to long term . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State , when make regulation under Part 4 of the Bill , to have regard to the objective of the international competitiveness of the economy and its growth in the medium to long term . new clause 98 — pressure to impose union recognition requirement — " in the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 , omit section 225 ( pressure to impose union recognition requirement ) . " this new clause would remove section 225 from the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 on pressure to impose union recognition requirement . new clause 99 — electronic balloting — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a statutory instrument contain an order under section 54 of the Employment Relations Act 2004 . ( 2 ) that order must specify that — ( a ) permissible mean may , in the case of any description of ballot or election , include ( or consist of ) electronic voting ; and ( b ) any ballot or election include ( or consist of ) electronic voting must be conduct pursuant to section 230 ( conduct of ballot ) of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must not make an order under this section until a consultation with the Trades Union Congress and the Certification Officer have be conduct . ( 4 ) an order under this section may not be make unless a draft have be lay before and approve by resolution of each House of Parliament . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to make an order for electronic voting in a ballot or election pursuant to section 54 of the Employment Relations Act 2004 within six month of the passing of this Act , and follow consultation with the TUC . new clause 100 — notice to employer of industrial action : amendment — " in section 234A of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 , omit subsection ( 3 ) to ( 9 ) and insert — - " ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section a relevant notice be one in writing which — ( a ) identifie — ( i ) the day or the first of the day on which , at the time of the service of the relevant notice , the union propose to call industrial action ; and ( ii ) the category of employee the union intend to call on to take industrial action ; and ( b ) must be provide to the employer as early as practicable after the ballot result be know and the decision to take industrial action in furtherance of it have be take . ( 4 ) if the industrial action relate to an event which have already take place , no relevant notice shall be require . " " this new clause replace the provision in section 234A of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 to define a relevant notice for industrial action , when one must be provide and when one be not require . new clause 103 — public sector contracting : trade union recognition — " ( 1 ) the Procurement Act 2023 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in part ( 2 ) ( principle and objective ) , after section 14a insert — " 14b obligation of contractor to recognise trade union ( 1 ) the Secretary of State have a duty to ensure that any contract enter into after the come into force of this Act by a — ( a ) government department ; ( b ) executive agency of government ; ( c ) non departmental public body ; or ( d ) non Ministerial department , be compliant with the requirement set out in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) a contract under subsection ( 1 ) must require the contractor to such a contracting authority to — ( a ) recognise an independent trade union for the purpose of collective bargaining , and ( b ) take step to ensure that any sub - contractor to the contractor which carry out any obligation under the public contract recognise an independent trade union for the purpose of collective bargaining . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , " recognise " , " independent trade union " and " collective bargaining " have the same meaning as in the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . ( 4 ) an independent trade union may make a complaint against a contracting authority , which be a party to a public contract , that it or a contractor or sub - contractor which carry out any obligation under the public contract be in breach of the term in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 5 ) the complaint may be make to the Central Arbitration Committee . ( 6 ) if the Central Arbitration Committee find the complaint to be well found , it shall grant a declaration to that effect . ( 7 ) where the Central Arbitration Committee make a declaration in accordance with subsection ( 6 ) , it shall order that the respondent contracting authority shall take whatever step appear to the Central Arbitration Committee as necessary to ensure that the contracting authority and every contractor or sub - contractor which carry out any obligation under the public contract comply with the imply term in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 8 ) the step that may be take under subsection ( 7 ) include termination of the contract , which shall not be regard as a breach of contract by the contracting authority concern if a principal reason for the termination be compliance with an order of the Central Arbitration Committee under subsection ( 7 ) . ( 9 ) an appeal lie on a point of law to the Employment Appeal Tribunal by either party to proceeding bring under subsection ( 5 ) . " " this new clause be design to ensure that all public contractor comply with the duty to recognise a trade union for the purpose of collective bargaining and that such contractor take step to ensure that any sub - contractor do the same . the term " contracting authority " and " public contract " be define in section 2 and 3 of the Procurement Act . new clause 106 — collective bargaining — " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 209 , after " industrial relation " insert — " and in particular to encourage the extension of collective bargaining and the development and , where necessary , reform of collective bargaining machinery . " " this would add duty around collective bargaining to the general duty of ACAS . new clause 107 — whether agreement intend to be a legally enforceable contract — " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for section 179 , substitute — " 179 whether agreement intend to be a legally enforceable contract ( 1 ) a collective agreement shall be conclusively presume to have be intend by the party to be a legally enforceable contract unless the agreement — ( a ) be in writing , and ( b ) contain a provision which ( however express ) state that the party do not intend that the agreement shall be a legally enforceable contract . ( 2 ) a collective agreement which satisfy those condition shall be conclusively presume not to have be intend by the party to be a legally enforceable contract . ( 3 ) if a collective agreement be in writing and contain a provision which ( however express ) state that the party intend that one or more part of the agreement specify in that provision , but not the whole of the agreement , shall not be a legally enforceable contract , then — ( a ) the specified part or part shall be conclusively presume not to have be intend by the party to be a legally enforceable contract , and ( b ) the remainder of the agreement shall be conclusively presume to have be intend by the party to be such a contract . ( 4 ) a part of a collective agreement which by virtue of subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) be not a legally enforceable contract may be refer to for the purpose of interpret a part of the agreement which be such a contract . " " this new clause replace section 179 on whether agreement intend to be a legally enforceable contract in the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 New clause 108 — industrial action : worker ' right — " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 219 , insert — " 219A Right to strike every worker shall have the right to take industrial action , whether or not in breach of any contract , subject to the provision of this Part . " ( 3 ) omit section 223 ( action take because of dismissal for take unofficial action ) . " this new clause would establish a clear right to strike and remove provision from the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 that make strike action unlawful on the ground that it turn out ( retrospectively ) that the action the worker take be unofficial . new clause 109 — industrial action and ballot — " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) omit — ( a ) section 224 ( secondary action ) ( b ) 225 ( pressure to impose union recognition requirement ) ( c ) 226a ( notice of ballot and sample voting paper for employer ) ( d ) 228 ( separate workplace ballot ) , and ( e ) 228A ( separate workplace : single and aggregate ballot ) . ( 3 ) in section 234 ( period after which ballot cease to be effective ) , omit subsection ( 1 ) to ( 5 ) and substitute : " ( 1 ) industrial action that be regard as have the support of a ballot shall cease to be so regard when ─ ( a ) the dispute which give rise to it cease , or ( b ) the union have take no step to pursue the dispute for a period of six month . " ( 4 ) in subsection ( 1 ) of section 244 , ( meaning of " trade dispute " in Part V ) — ( a ) omit " a dispute between worker and their employer " and substitute " a dispute between worker and one or more employer " . ( b ) omit " which relate wholly or mainly to " and substitute " connect with " . ( 5 ) in subsection ( 5 ) of section 244 , omit " a worker employ by that employer " and substitute " a worker employ by an employer " . " this new clause would remove provision that ban all form of secondary action ; make change to the definition of " trade dispute " ; enable industrial action to be take to achieve recognition for collective bargaining ; remove obligation on a TU to provide a ballot paper to the employer ; give tu more freedom to choose which constituency they will ballot ; and remove an obligation on the union in a long run dispute to re - run the ballot every six month . new clause 110 — review into the impact on small business — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passage of this Act , lie before Parliament a review on the impact of Part 4 ( Trade Unions and Industrial Action , etc ) of this Act on small and medium - sized enterprise . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must have regard to — ( a ) administrative cost ; ( b ) legal cost ; and ( c ) tax change affect small and medium - sized enterprise take effect from the 2025 - 26 financial year . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , small and medium - sized enterprise be business employ 250 or few employee . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish a review on the impact of Part 4 of this Bill , on Trade Unions and Industrial Action , on sme within 3 month of the passage of this Act . new clause 111 — legal aid in employment tribunal — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passage of this Act , lie before Parliament a report on the option for expand the right to legal aid in employment tribunal . ( 2 ) the report under subsection ( 1 ) must consider — ( a ) the impact employer ' compliance with measure contain within this Act ; and ( b ) the impact on employee ' personal finance . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to report on the impact of expand the right to legal aid in employment tribunal within 3 month of the passage of this Act . new clause 112 — Review of single enforcement body — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passage of this Act , lie before Parliament a review on the impact of a single enforcement body as provide for under Part 5 . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must assess the impact of the single enforcement body with the impact between 2019 and 2025 of the follow four enforcement body — ( a ) Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority ( GLAA ) ( b ) Employment Agencies Standards Inspectorate ( EAS ) ( c ) his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs ( HMRC ) ( d ) Health and Safety Executive ( HSE ) ( 3 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must have regard to — ( a ) business compliance cost ( b ) Employers ' compliance with employment law ( c ) the number of employee seek support in relation to employment dispute . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to review the impact of a single enforcement body compare with separate enforcement body within 3 month of the passage of this Act . amendment 270 , page 61 , line 14 leave out clause 50 . new clause 70 be intend to replace clause 50 . government amendment 162 to 164 . Amendment 282 , clause 50 , page 61 , line 31 , after " workplace " insert , or " ( b ) the right to use to any digital communication tool use by worker in the workplace . " this amendment aim to ensure that access for union to workplace include digital mean of communication with worker . government amendment 165 to 185 . amendment 271 , clause 51 , page 69 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) in paragraph 22 ( collective bargaining : recognition ) — ( a ) leave out sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) and insert — " the CAC have evidence , which it consider to be credible , that a majority of worker constitute the bargaining unit want the union ( or union ) to conduct collective bargaining on their behalf ' . " ( b ) leave out subparagraph ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) . ( 2b ) in paragraph 25 ( collective bargaining : recognition ) — ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( a ) leave out " 20 work day " and substitute " 10 working day " , and ( b ) leave out sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( b ) . ( c ) after sub - paragraph ( 4 ) ( a ) insert " ( aa ) by secure electronic voting , " ( d ) in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) ( c ) leave out " and b " and substitute " to ( c ) " ( e ) after sub - paragraph ( 4 ) ( c ) insert — " ( d ) only amongst those who be employ in the propose bargaining unit and be so employ at the time the application be make " . ( 2C ) in paragraph 26 after sub - paragraph ( 4 ) insert — " ( 3A ) in the event that the union ( or union ) consider that such access have be unreasonably refuse , it ( or they ) may apply to the CAC for a declaration and order that access be grant and in the event that such a declaration or order be make and the union ( or union ) consider that such a declaration or order have be breach it ( or they ) may apply to the High Court for relief . " ( 2D ) in paragraph 26 after sub - paragraph ( 4b ) insert — " ( 4ba ) the sixth duty be to refrain from any act or omission , direct or indirect , likely to encourage a union member or member to resign from union membership or likely to discourage a person from join a union or any particular union . ( 4bb ) it shall be unlawful to compel a worker or worker by threat of detriment or dismissal to attend any meeting in which the employer , its servant or agent express the view directly or indirectly that — ( a ) membership of a union or any union ; or ( b ) recognition for the purpose of collective bargaining of a union or any union by the employer , be undesirable . " ( 2e ) in paragraph 27b ( 2 ) leave out " must be make on or before the first work day after " and substitute " must be make within 20 working day after " . ( 2f ) in paragraph 29 ( collective bargaining : recognition ) leave out sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( b ) . ( 2 g ) in paragraph 35 ( 1 ) leave out " a collective agreement under which a union ( or union ) be recognise as entitle to conduct collective bargaining " and substitute " a collective agreement under which an independent union ( or independent union ) be recognise as entitle to conduct collective bargaining " . ( 2H ) in paragraph 35 ( 1 ) after " in the rule " insert " ' in relation to all pay , hour and holiday " . ( 2i ) in paragraph 39 ( 2 ) ( a ) leave out " year " and substitute " month " . ( 2J ) in paragraph 40 ( 2 ) ( a ) leave out " year " and substitute " month " . ( 2 k ) in paragraph 41 ( 2 ) ( a ) leave out " year " and substitute " month " . this amendment make change to the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 regard union recognition and balloting . amendment 291 , page 71 , line 1 , leave out clause 52 . amendment 292 , clause 52 , page 71 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) in subsection ( 1 ) of section 82 ( rule as to political fund ) , after paragraph ( d ) insert — " ( e ) that trade union member who have not opt out of the political fund must signal , in writing , their agreement to continue contribute to the fund at the end of a period of 12 month after last opt into the fund , and ( f ) that trade union member must be give an annual notice about their right to opt out of the political fund . ( 1b ) a notice under subsection ( 1 ) ( f ) must include a form that enable the member to opt out of the fund . " " this amendment would require trade union to notify their member every year of their right to opt out of the political fund , and to obtain an annual opt - in to the political fund from their member . government amendment 186 to 191 . amendment 293 , page 73 , line 6 , leave out clause 54 . amendment 294 , page 74 , line 14 , leave out clause 55 . amendment 296 , clause 55 , page 75 , line 3 , after " employee " , insert — " , and ( c ) in relation to a public sector employer , the performance condition be meet . ( 3A ) the performance condition be meet if the Secretary of State be satisfied that the public sector employer be meet any performance standard set out in a relevant enactment . " this amendment prevent facility time for equality representative from be provide unless the relevant public sector organisation be meet its statutory target for performance . amendment 295 , page 78 , line 5 , leave out clause 56 . amendment 299 , page 78 , line 30 , leave out clause 58 . government amendment 192 to 199 . amendment 315 , page 79 , line 28 , leave out clause 60 . this amendment would leave out Clause 60 on electronic balloting for industrial action . NC99 be intend to replace clause 60 . government amendment 200 to 201 . amendment 297 , clause 61 , page 80 , line 6 , leave out " seventh " and insert " fourteenth " . this amendment would increase , from seven to 14 day , the notice period that trade union be require to adhere to when notify employer that they plan to take industrial action . government amendment 202 . amendment 348 , page 80 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be also amend as follow . ( 4 ) in section 231 ( information as to result of ballot ) , omit from " shall " to after " tell " and insert — " display , reasonably prominently on its website , on a webpage reasonably easy to find and which be freely accessible to the general public — " ( 5 ) omit section 231A . " this amendment would change the requirement for notification about the result of a union ballot . amendment 346 , clause 62 , page 80 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) in section 220 ( peaceful picketing ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , after " attend " , insert " a place of work " ; ( b ) omit subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) and ( 1 ) ( b ) ; and ( c ) omit subsection ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) . " this amendment , along with amendment 348 , would remove the restriction confine picket to a worker ' s place of work . amendment 300 , clause 63 , page 83 , line 9 , at end insert — " 236E Actions short of a strike : exemption ( 1 ) the right of a worker not to be subject to detriment under section 236A do not apply in case where the worker be involve in one or more of the follow activity — ( a ) intimidation at picket line ; ( b ) protest organise by trade union in furtherance of a dispute — ( i ) at the premise of a company ; ( ii ) at the private residence of senior manager ; or ( iii ) at the premise of other organisation that be connect with the dispute ; ( c ) harassment or bullying of non - striking worker , or those who be cover for strike worker ; ( d ) victimisation or harassment of senior manager ; or ( e ) action aim at damage property or disrupt business contingency planning . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that the circumstance under subsection ( 1 ) , in which the right of a worker not to be subject to detriment do not apply , be set out in a code of practice . " this amendment would disapply the right not to suffer detriment as a result of industrial action in certain circumstance . government amendment 203 to 226 and 236 to 239 . government new schedule 2 — Trade union recognition . government amendment 247 , 249 , 251 to 261 . new clause 77 — Employment Law : Scotland Act — " ( 1 ) the Scotland Act 1998 be amend as follow — ( 2 ) in Schedule 5 of the Scotland Act 1998 , omit section H1 ( Employment and industrial relation ) . " this new clause would remove matter relate to employment from the list of the reserved matter that remain the responsibility of the UK Parliament alone and would enable the Scottish Parliament to legislate on those matter . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Z ö e Franklin Charlie Maynard Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Kate Dearden Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Ellie chown Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Anna Turley Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew