thank you for call I to make my maiden speech , Madam Deputy Speaker . before I do , may I commend Figen Murray and her family and friend for the excellent campaign they have continue , completely selflessly ? I be sure it will save the life of hundred , if not thousand of people . they be a great example to we all . I confess to be unusually nervous — as indeed I should be — as I address my honourable colleague across the House for the first time as the first Member of Parliament for Tiverton and Minehead . I would like to begin by thank the two previous mps for Tiverton and Minehead . my fellow Liberal Democrat , my hon . friend the Member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) , have happily be return by his constituent as their MP , where he will continue to be a hard - work local champion . I be also grateful for the 23 year of service that my predecessor in Bridgwater and West Somerset , Ian Liddell - Grainger , in his own inimitable style , give to my constituent in that part of my constituency . he be a doting grandfather , who will now have more time to spend with his grandchild . I also want to thank Rebecca Pow , the former Member for Taunton Deane , who be a prolific gardener — vegetable be a particular favourite , I understand — and whose constituency encompass some of the village and town now in Tiverton and Minehead , as well as the constituency of Taunton and Wellington . as a new Member of Parliament , this place , even though it bear a resemblance to my alma mater , be a difficult and different environment to master . I know that I speak for all new member when I thank all member of staff of the parliamentary estate , from Doorkeepers to police officer to cater and clean staff . I thank they all for their warm welcome , and for their tolerance and patience with the numerous question they answer with humour and understanding . thank you all . since September last year , my team , know as " Team Terrific and the Stalwarts " , have knock on nearly 31 , 000 door , deliver hundred of thousand of leaflet , letter and survey and speak to over 12 , 000 resident . I know what matter to the people of Tiverton and Minehead because I have ask they . I be raise in Somerset and have spend most of my adult life in Devon , from Holcombe Rogus via Hemyock to Bampton in the Tiverton and Minehead constituency . my husband and I choose to raise our family in Devon . in fact , all four of our child be bear Devonians . our eld son , Henry and Tom , be bear in the old hospital in Tiverton . it be my sincere intention to support the NHS and social care system in Tiverton and Minehead by keep our local hospital open in Minehead , Tiverton and Williton , and by support all our GP surgery . ours be a very rural area and the need to keep local hospital open be especially press give limited transport link and a high - than - average elderly population . as mine be a rural and often disconnected constituency , transport improvement be one of my key priority . with that at the forefront of my mind , I have convene a meeting with Peninsula Transport , the body that oversee all public transport in Devon and Somerset . along with my transport adviser , David Northey , who have a deep history in this area as a former head of strategic planning at Great Western Railway , I have be hard at work for my constituent , put together a transport plan and highlight the challenge and solution for rail and bus service across Tiverton and Minehead . Minehead train station desperately need link to the main line at Taunton ; I know that my hon . friend and neighbour the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) would agree . we need also to secure the number 25 and 28 bus service in the north of the constituency and look carefully at rural bus route to service the village of Exmoor , such as Exford , Withypool and Winsford , along with local town , particularly Wiveliscombe . those will be key part of that new plan for the local area . poor public transport provision create a particular barrier to schoolchildren and student in Tiverton and Minehead . some have no bus to take they to school , no way to walk to school or no way to cycle to get there . other than the small a - level provision at West Somerset college , there be no — I repeat , no — sixth - form provision in my constituency . student have to travel to Exeter , Taunton or Bridgwater if they wish to pursue their study . that limit their aspiration and ability to succeed . shockingly , West Somerset rank 324th out of 324 on the social mobility index , and such transport problem explain some of why that be . however , teacher and head of primary school across the constituency and of secondary school in Tiverton , Minehead , Williton and Uffculme do not lack aspiration for their pupil . they be work daily to improve access to well education . that include campaign to have facility worthy of 21st - century educational standard . the first letter I write , within day of get elect on 5 July , be to our new Secretary of State for Education , ask for a meeting to discuss the dire state of Tiverton high school . nearly 25 year ago — I repeat , 25 year ago — Tiverton high school be promise a new build . the previous Labour Government put it on their priority list . the last Conservative Government sit on their hand and do nothing . the school be deem by the Environment Agency to be a " danger of death " from flooding . there be asbestos in the sport hall , and child be be teach in dining and communal area . it have capacity for 1 , 300 pupil but need capacity for 1 , 800 . give the pledge make by our new Prime Minister and his commitment to school , I know that I will get a fair hearing from the Secretary of State for Education . I hope that she will agree to meet a delegation of staff , parent and child from Tiverton high school in the near future . community play a crucial role in Tiverton and Minehead . there be wonderful organisation provide support and help , from community food bank to support group for carer , to Rotary club , conservation group and the environmental network with which I work to monitor and prevent the pollution in our river and on our beach . those organisation all make Tiverton and Minehead the wonderful , beautiful , special part of the UK that it be . when they meet to discuss important community issue , the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill will ensure that they be safe . however , my party have previously have concern about the impact on small - scale venue ; I be delighted to hear today that the approach be more light touch than expect . as a former director of the National Farmers Union , I have a deep passion for and understanding of my local farming community , who be spread across the constituency and face hard challenge than they have for generation . that be thank to the disastrous Brexit deal foist upon they by the previous Conservative Government . in the face of climate change , increase rainfall , dryer summer and the rise cost of energy , they battle on . to they I say , " I will always back my farming community . let ' s work together to secure a future for farming across Exmoor , West Somerset and mid Devon . come to my monthly farmer ’ surgery so that I can represent my farming community to the very good of my ability . " become an MP have be my ambition since I be 17 , when I join the Liberal party at school . it have take I four attempt over 43 year of campaigning , but now that dream have become a reality . without my family , it would have be impossible . as a professional woman , I have break several glass ceiling thank to my inspirational grandmother , Mabel and Jesse , who offer wise counsel ; to Miss Whaite , now Mrs Michael Limb , my latin teacher , who keep I sane at boarding school ; and especially to my mother , who have always believe in I . Mummy , thank you — I love you . I be so proud to have she here today with my husband and our eld son in the Gallery , so that she can see this moment . yesterday I celebrate my three - score - year birthday ; I say to my conservative colleague , whose math skill in government be find somewhat want , that that be 60 . I share my birthday with Margaret Hilda Thatcher , who must be one of the good recruiting agent for the liberal and labour party . I be proud that I share nothing with her other than a birthday . my passion for politic flow from my compassion for my fellow human being — whoever and wherever they be , irrespective of background , race , religion , colour , gender , sexuality or ability . it be impossible to mention everyone and everything in one ' s maiden speech , but if there be one thing that I wish my constituent to know it be this : they be my world . I feel humble and honour to have be elect to represent Tiverton and Minehead in Parliament . they can help I do my job by come to my surgery at Tiverton and Minehead , Wiveliscombe and on Exmoor , by ring my office and my staff , and by write we letter and email . I be at their service .