that be an important concern . as my hon . friend know , we be determined to open up opportunity for people who have be out of work , often for a long time , on health and disability ground , and to give they the chance to get into work through much well employment support . however , we recognise that there will be people who will never be able to work . under the proposal for claim for the new universal credit health element , from next April , a high payment will protect those with the most severe lifelong condition that have no prospect of improvement , and who will never be able to work . Eligibility for that will be through the work capability assessment condition criterion . I refer the House to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests about the help that I receive from the Refugee , Asylum and Migration Policy Project . I be also the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on migration . I welcome the Government ' s action in the Bill to repeal part of the previous Government ' s repeat gimmick and nonsense legislation in the last Parliament . I will speak to new clause 1 , 2 and 37 , all of which I have sponsor . new clause 1 be table by my right hon . friend — apology , I should have say my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) ; she be not right honourable , but she should be . the new clause would require the Home Office to publish quarterly statistic and information on death in the asylum system and small boat channel crossing . under the last government , a horrifying number of refugee and people seek asylum die try to cross the channel and in Home Office accommodation . in 2024 , that number reach a record high . despite daily and weekly report on the number of people stop or deport , we still do not have regular , clear and transparent reporting on those who have lose their life in the system . that be incredibly important , not just morally but in order to address the evidence gap , so that we get policy right . new clause 2 would require report on the right to work . I hear what the Minister say about this be a discussion about time , but mental health and working right be not separate issue . the majority of asylum seeker in the UK be unable to work and use their skill to support themselves and their family or even to save enough to rent a home . instead , they be trap , isolated , inactive and dependent on state support . there be countless compelling reason why asylum seeker should be allow to work like the rest of the population . give the huge amount of support that idea have from the public and business , we should at least have the opportunity to scrutinise why the ban remain and the impact that it be have . if we want integration , why not let people work in their community and build english language skill ? finally , new clause 37 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) , seek to ensure that child bear in the UK who have grow up here and know no other home be not price out of citizenship simply because of their parent ' immigration status at the time of their birth . such young people be part of our community , school and the fabric of our future . they should not be deny their right or go on to face barrier in education , housing , healthcare and across society . they be not " stranger " ; they be our friend and neighbour . some have stoke racist division against migrant — a drum that the far right have continually bang since — and the whole House must oppose that rhetoric . amid rise anti - refugee sentiment , include last year ' s shocking riot , it could not be more urgent or valuable to enable people to feel secure and contribute to their community . I be aghast at some of the amendment table by opposition party , particularly new clause 41 . I wonder how many ruin live those member will consider too many . it be shameful to see the victimisation of people who have come here to find safety .