Oral Answers to Questions Levelling up , Housing and Communities the Secretary of State be ask — antisemitism what recent assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of level of antisemitism in the last 12 month . we have pay close attention to the concern figure produce by the Home Office and the Community Security Trust , which have show the continued prevalence of antisemitism in our society . we be consider Lord Mann ' s recent report on the subject , which we will respond to in due course , and we have increase the annual jewish community protective security grant to £ 15 million in 2023 - 24 . do the Secretary of State see the research from King ' s College London , show that those who believe in conspiracy be most likely to be antisemitic ? much of that antisemitism take place online and be legal but harmful . what be he do to tackle conspiracism , misinformation and fake news ; why be the measure to tackle they in the Online Safety Bill so weak ; and why have the Government remove the legal but harmful provision , which would protect so much of the jewish community ? the hon . Gentleman be right that there be a significant overlap between antisemitism and conspiracy theory , and many of the trope that conspiracist use be draw from the antisemitic library . however , with the Online Safety Bill it be important to balance the right to free speech with vigilance in deal with hate , and this Government be absolutely committed to combat antisemitism wherever it rear its head . level up what step he be take to level up all part of the UK . what assessment he have make of the potential effect of increase in the cost of live on his Department ' s levelling - up agenda . level up be not just a slogan — it be an imperative , and that be why it be a drive mission of this Government . I fear that if I outline every step we be take to level up , my extensive answer would take we beyond time , Mr Speaker , but to name a few highlight , we be establish investment zone and freeport to create high - quality local job , deliver billion of pound of investment into vital local project and empower local leader through devolution deal , put power and funding back into local hand . that be level up in action , and there be more to come . all those word be just empty rhetoric . it be a con trick . the truth be that in a single decade the Government cut £ 540 billion from public service , and by March they will only have put about £ 500 million — one tenth of that — back in through level up . be it not clear that to level up properly , we need an end both to this Government and to the economic system they have establish ? absolutely not . this be a Government that have put level up at the core of every single thing we do . that be not go to change . the only way to ensure level up remain at the heart of Government be by vote Conservative at the next election . datum from the Times Health Commission report that nearly 11 , 000 people in England last year be hospitalise with malnutrition . Malnutrition itself have quadruple since 2007 , with a shocking rise in victorian illness such as scurvy and ricket . can the Minister explain how such shocking figure fit within her Government ' s levelling - up agenda ? I thank the hon . Lady for highlight that . she will know that the wide 12 levelling - up mission cover a range of area , include health and healthy life outcome . it be important that we all work together , across party and across Government , to try to tackle this issue . the Minister understand that regeneration of our high street be key to the levelling up of our community , yet she be aware that in Gosport that be be paralyse by unfair council tax being slap on house in multiple occupancy — very high - quality one that be key to the future regeneration of our high street . as part of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , the Secretary of State launch a consultation to address that question , but it conclude week ago and we still have not have the result . when will it be publish ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her engagement with I and the Secretary of State on that vital issue . unfortunately , I can not give she a specific date right now , but I will meet she as soon as we have the result in place , because I realise it be a vital issue that we need to address . I be grateful to my hon . friend and to my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for recent visit to Mansfield and the east midland to support the many levelling - up project we have go on in our region , from freeport to development company , integrate rail plan , investment zone and levelling - up and town fund project , include in Mansfield . all that amount to billion of pound . what impact do my hon . friend think that will have on my constituency ? my hon . friend have do a great job of highlight the incredible level of support go to Mansfield and the wide east midland . a lot of that be down to great local leadership from he and his colleague . that will have an enormous impact on the people live in the east midland and on their opportunity to get on in life , which ultimately be what level up be all about . I call the shadow Minister . up and down the country , community be struggle with the Tories ' mortgage crisis and the cost of living crisis . those hit hard often live in community that be promise levelling - up funding , yet the Government sit on £ 1 billion of promise levelling - up fund money — money that could make a difference to those who need it most . where on earth be it ? will the Government commit today to start a process for the allocation of it ? I find myself a little confused , because we get a lot of criticism from the Opposition about round 2 of the levelling - up fund . they want we to get round 3 right , and we be take the time to ensure that we get round 3 allocation right . we will , in due course , announce detail on how we will allocate that money , which will change people ' s life . Business liquidation : cost to Local Authorities if he will make an assessment with Cabinet colleague of the capacity of local authority to respond to unexpected cost arise from business enter liquidation . the local government finance settlement of up to £ 59 . 7 billion for 2023 - 24 increase core spending power by 9 . 4 % . Most of that funding be unringfenced , as local authority be well place to understand their local priority . the Government also spend approximately £ 8 billion through target long - term investment in high street and small business . resident in the Marsh area of Lancaster , Lancaster City Council and I be concerned about the future of a skip site on the Lune industrial estate that have go into liquidation . the cost of clean - up be high than the value of the land . will the Minister make time to meet I and Lancaster City Council to discuss what step the council can take to ensure that resident know that the environment they be live in be healthy and safe ? I understand that the hon . Lady be in touch with the Environment Agency about that , and that there be an ongoing investigation . although she will appreciate that I can not comment on any specific of the case , I would , of course , be happy to meet she to discuss the wide issue of waste remediation . our Government be commit to tackle waste crime : we have increase the Environment Agency ' s budget by £ 10 million per year and tighten the law to make it hard for rogue operator to find work in the sector and easy for regulator to take action against criminal . Community Ownership Fund what progress he have make on allocate fund through the community ownership fund . the community ownership fund have be a significant success , and have so far award £ 36 . 8 million to 150 project across the UK . a total of £ 25 . 5 million have be allocate in England , £ 5 . 2 million in Scotland , £ 3 . 2 million in Wales and £ 3 million in Northern Ireland . do the Minister agree that the community ownership fund provide tremendous potential for community organisation in Clwyd South and elsewhere to take ownership of asset and amenity that risk be lose , and that the current bidding round be benefit from the positive change to the fund that be announce on 12 May ? I agree that the community ownership fund have huge potential in Clwyd South and , indeed , across the UK . the change that my hon . friend allude to — extend the maximum funding available from £ 250 , 000 to £ 1 million , reduce the match funding require , and allow application from parish , town and community council — will mean that even more cherished asset and amenity can be save for local community . I remind the House that window 1 of round 3 will close on July 12 . the community ownership fund be an ideal fund to support Udney Park Community Fields Foundation , which have be work tirelessly with the community in Teddington and Twickenham to bring Udney Park playing field and the war memorial pavilion back into community use for the benefit of local grassroots sport organisation . the site have go to rack and ruin since two successive and badly advise developer buy the site eight year ago from Imperial College London . as the site go back on the market , will the Minister agree to look favourably on any application from the foundation for that asset of community value ? as the House will understand , I can not comment on individual bid , but the hon . Lady make a compelling case . the relevant Minister be happy to meet she . Local Authority Funding what recent assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of the impact of increase in inflation on local authority budget . what recent assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of local authority funding . we recognise that council have face challenge since covid , which be one of the reason why we allocate billion more in subsidy to local authority in the financial year 2023 - 24 . discussion on public spending often require hard choice and trade - off on many worthy intention , but we hope that the additional billion allocate demonstrate the Government ' s commitment to local authority . council budget have be impact by huge cost due to covid and the triple whammy of increase in demand for service , fuel price and inflation . the Minister will know that people be scared and run out of hope , so will he outline what support be available now to ensure that council can still provide the vital service that people need ? as I outline , we have allocate additional fund to local authority in this financial year . it be also a statement of fact that a number of local authority in England have increase reserve as a result of covid . in the last financial year , additional grant funding of nearly £ 7 million have go to the hon . Gentleman ' s local council , Bury Council , for adult social care . do my hon . friend share my view that one way to support local government finance and to reward well - perform local authority such as Bromley Council would be to introduce multi - year funding settlement ? will he commission a review into the merit of this , so that local authority can well plan for the future ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be a testament to the good work of Bromley Council that he can demonstrate this and talk about it with knowledge and experience . Multi - year financial settlement be something that we all aspire to . one of the reason we bring forward the policy statement for financial year 2024 - 25 be to ensure great clarity for council at the end of this spending review , and we hope to be able to return to multi - year settlement in future Parliaments . discretionary housing payment administer by council be a vital resource in stave off homelessness . the figure — £ 140 million in 2021 - 22 , £ 100 million in 2022 - 23 and remain flat for the next two year — show a £ 40 million cut and further cut owe to increase demand and inflationary pressure . section 21 eviction be not slow down , the number of household face rent arrear be soar and the number be force into temporary accommodation be skyrocket . the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have ultimate responsibility for homelessness , so when will Ministers at the Department tell their colleague in the Treasury and the Department for Work and Pensions to wake up and smell the coffee ? one of the reason why we have give local government additional fund in this financial year , as I just tell the hon . member for Bury South ( Christian Wakeford ) , be precisely that we recognise that there be challenge . the Government have also allocate an additional £ 100 million for the most vulnerable household , to be administer through local authority , which demonstrate the commitment to both local authority and the most vulnerable in our society . local Authorities : long - term funding what discussion he have have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on long - term funding for local authority . the Chancellor , his Ministers and his official be in regular contact with the Secretary of State , I and departmental official on matter pertain to local government finance . the final local government finance settlement for this financial year , 2023 - 24 , make available up to £ 60 billion for local government in England . local authority have lose £ 15 billion of funding since 2010 , as the Government have seek to outsource both the pain and the blame for their punishing approach to the public finance , with only a fraction allocate back on a piecemeal , time - limited and ad hoc basis . the reality for local authority up and down the country be that it be increasingly become far too difficult to deliver all the service that local resident rely on . when will the Secretary of State stop treat local government like a pawn in his political game , and start treat local government finance with the seriousness that both resident and hard - work local government official need ? difficult decision be take in the year after 2010 precisely because Labour fail to make those decision in the year before 2010 . one of the reason why we have make available additional funding for local government in this financial year be to demonstrate that we understand the challenge local authority face . ultimately , however , as I say to the hon . member for Bury South ( Christian Wakeford ) , this sort of issue require hard choice and trade - off — something the Labour party continue to fail to demonstrate it understand . as inflation impact on local authority budget , planning department be become especially squeeze . council be mean to approve big planning application within 13 week , but over the last year only 19 % have be approve in that timeframe , down from 57 % ten year ago . what can the Minister do to improve funding for local council planning department ? my hon . friend highlight an important place where further progress be need . we recognise that there be challenge in this area , and I know that the Minister of State , Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , who be the Housing Minister , and the Secretary of State be well aware of these challenge and seek to address they . my portfolio include nationally significant infrastructure programme , and we have bring forward the NSIP action plan , demonstrate our commitment to speed up project and decision within they as much as we can . shropshire ' s Conservative - run council be try to save £ 1 million a week just to balance its budget this year and restore its reserve to a safe level . part of its problem be that the funding allocate to rural council do not reflect the additional cost of deliver service in rural place . will the Minister consider reassess that allocation , so that rural council can get the revenue they need to support the cost of the service they need to provide ? we be absolutely aware of the challenge that rural council face . that be one of the reason why we increase the rural grant within the most recent financial settlement by £ 10 million . where there be pressure in local government finance in the come year , we will continue to work with colleague across the House to address they . stoke - on - Trent City Council be face unprecedented pressure , particularly because there be now over 1 , 000 child in the care of the city council , as well as multiple education , health and care plan that require child to be take out of the city to find the provision that they deserve . will my hon . friend meet urgently with the leader of Stoke - on - Trent City Council , Councillor Jane Ashworth ; its chief executive officer , Jon Rouse ; and member of Parliament for Stoke - on - Trent to quickly find a way forward and ensure that our finance be in the good possible position go forward ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who speak with knowledge and experience on these issue . I would be happy to meet member of Parliament from Stoke - on - Trent to talk about this matter in further detail . devolution in England what step his Department be take to increase devolution in England . we have make significant progress in our mission to extend english devolution . in the past year , we have announce five mayoral devolution deal , which will bring devolution to over half of the english population . most recently , I be delighted when the wonderful new leader of East Riding council , Anne Handley , signal her ambition for great devolution . last week , I attend an evidence session for the all - party parliamentary group on the east midland ' inquiry into investment in the region , which have be historically underfunde . business leader tell I that the east midland combine authority need to be head by someone with sharp elbow to get thing do in the region . I know there be a man in Mansfield who meet that description , but can my right hon . friend commit to give that combine authority the power to effect meaningful change , include consider west midland - style power ? my hon . friend make a very good point : there be a man from Mansfield who would be an absolutely outstanding metro Mayor for the east midland , and we need to give he all the power he need . he have not only sharp elbow but a keen intellect , and he have the interest of the east midland at heart . what Andy Street have do for the west midland , Mr Ben Bradley can do for the east midland . you get there . accord to PricewaterhouseCoopers , the West Midlands Combined Authority that the selfsame Andy Street preside over be the second bad perform CA in the UK , judge by its growth figure . in that circumstance , should the public of Warwickshire not have a say in any potential merger with that combine authority , as be propose in the Secretary of State ' s levelling - up Bill that be go through the House of Lords ? I have great respect for the hon . Gentleman , but why do he think that Warwickshire can not compete on the world stage as part of the West Midlands Combined Authority ? why do he have such little confidence in the people of Warwickshire ? he have refer to the Mayor of the combine authority . Andy Street be the Mayor who have do most to deliver and , indeed , exceed housing target as Mayor of the west midland . who have do the bad ? labour ' s Sadiq Khan . Renters ( Reform ) Bill what assessment he have make of the implication for his police of the Regulatory Policy Committee statement on the Renters ( Reform ) Bill impact assessment , publish on 3 July 2023 . I have read it , and it seem fantastic . what a facile answer ! do my right hon . friend not accept the criticism of the RPC that the impact assessment be very weak in that it fail to address the impact of the Bill on competition , innovation and investment , and on landlord who run small business and microbusinesse ? I be very pleased that the impact assessment give the Bill a green rating . I be particularly pleased that it indicate that the likely additional cost would be £ 17 a year , and that the benefit — both monetised and non - monetised — would be significantly great than that . it be a progressive measure , which I hope my hon . friend will be able to join I in support . renter ' reform be important , as be safe housing . resident of Norfolk House , a block of flat in my constituency , have suffer burst pipe , dangerous cladding , and sewage and hot water leak that have ruin multiple flat . resident have call it a " tick time bomb " to see whose ceiling will collapse next . both Galliard , the property developer , and Southern Housing , the housing association , be refuse to address those issue . will the Minister commit to look into that case , which have blight the life of resident for year ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise that , and of course we will . both the housing association she mention and the developer she mention have come to the attention of our Department before , so I be not surprised , but I be disappointed , and we will take action . affordable Housing what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the provision of affordable housing in ( a ) Chesterfield and ( b ) England . the Government be commit to increase the supply of affordable housing , which be why , through our £ 11 . 5 billion affordable home programme , we will deliver ten of thousand of affordable home for both sale and rent in community up and down the country . when it come to Chesterfield , I be aware that the local plan be adopt in July 2020 , but ultimately local authority be responsible for plan preparation and decision making , and they interpret national policy and guidance accord to local circumstance . I be grateful , but that be not really an answer to my question of whether the Minister consider that the amount of affordable housing be adequate . under the Conservatives , the number of new social rent home have fall by over 80 % , and there be now 27 , 000 few socially rent home build each year than there be under a Labour Government . meanwhile , hard - press mortgage holder be face the high interest rate in a generation . be it not clear that neither renter nor buyer can afford another year of this Tory Government ? I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman be aware that Chesterfield Borough Council be under the control of the Labour party , which , with the assistance of significant Government grant funding , be responsible for deliver affordable housing in the area . it be up to Chesterfield Labour party , in control of that council , to work with developer to make sure that planning obligation deliver the house that local people need . we know that a lack of affordable housing can contribute towards an increase in homelessness . of course , it be a big responsibility for different area to tackle homelessness , and I be proud of what Ipswich do , particularly through organisation such as the Ipswich Housing Action Group . I be concerned to hear , though , that neighbouring authority in the eastern region be send their homeless people to Ipswich . do the Minister agree that those authority should shoulder the responsibility to tackle homelessness in their own area and not send those homeless people to Ipswich ? will the Minister confirm that the Labour - lead council can stop that happen if it want to do so ? I thank my hon . friend for bring this vital issue to our attention on the Floor of the House . of course , we expect local authority to work together to tackle homelessness and to alleviate those pressure on the most vulnerable people . it be right for his Labour council to work with any other council that have responsibility for that . strength of the Union what assessment he have make of the strength of the Union . the Union , and support for the Union , be strong , and I be delighted to note that , in the most recent opinion poll , support for independence in Scotland be plummet . that be a very interesting definition of " plummet " , when that support consistently remain high than it be in the independence referendum of 2014 . we be tell during that campaign and afterwards that Scotland would have one of the most powerful wee devolve sub - state legislature in the entire world , if not the universe , so what be the Government ' s baseline for that ? can the Secretary of State give we some example of Parliaments that be more or less powerful than the Scottish Parliament ? I would just note that , at the referendum to which the hon . member refer , support for independence be at 45 % , but it be currently at 37 % in the poll , and 37 be eight less than 45 . more broadly , the Scottish Parliament have significant power . it be a pity that the Scottish Government do not use they and , unfortunately , as a result Scotland ' s people be let down when it come to education , where Scotland be tumble down . Scotland , sadly , do not have the reform that we have have in England , which have see we rise up international league table . it use to be the case that Scotland ' s education system be the pride of the globe , but it be now England that have the good reader of the western world . I call the SNP spokesperson . I want to ask the Secretary of State some question on his role as the Minister for Intergovernmental Relations and drug policy , of which he have say a number of interesting thing . he be on record say this : " public health measure , which be back by strong scientific evidence , which follow the lead of the doctor , the clinician , we should look seriously at they . " drug consumption room and the decriminalisation of possession of small quantity of drug have be prove to work throughout the world , and they have now be propose by the Scottish Government . do the Secretary of State accept that the outright rejection of that by the UK Government at the weekend — out of hand — undermine the Scottish Government , undermine those campaigner and those who help drug user , and undermine the Union ? no , I do not accept that , but the hon . Gentleman raise a very serious question . I have have the opportunity to discuss with the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) some of the challenge that she face in her constituency . the hon . Gentleman and I both know that drug death in Scotland be unacceptably high , and there be no single answer to that problem , but I believe , as be outline clearly by politician from both the Government and the principal Opposition party , that the Scottish Government ' s proposal be the wrong proposal at the wrong time . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer , but the head of all 31 UN agency have call for possession decriminalisation , and more than 30 country have make change that have cut death and incarceration . there be no reasonable , rational and evidence cause for the UK Government , or the Labour party , to reject the proposal out of hand . may I ask he seriously , in his role as Minister for Intergovernmental Relations , to be the grown - up on his side of the Chamber , and work and engage with the Scottish Government and drug campaigner on the issue ? as the hon . Gentleman point out , this be a complex , challenging and heartbreaking issue . it be right that the government should work together , and with the NHS , law enforcement and other , to deal with this challenge , but I believe that the specific proposal for decriminalisation of possession propose be not the good way forward . House Building what step his Department be take to support house building . what step his Department be take to support house building . what step his Department be take to support house building . what step his Department be take to support house building . what step his Department be take to support house building . what step his Department be take to support house building . House building be a priority for this Government . we have announce £ 10 billion - worth of investment in the housing supply since the start of this Parliament , and ultimately , our intervention be due to unlock over 1 million new home . we be also invest £ 11 . 5 billion in the late affordable home programme , to provide ten of thousand of new home across the country . as my question concern Wolverhampton , with your permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to pay tribute to Councillor Ian Brookfield , the leader of City of Wolverhampton Council , who sadly pass away last week , age only 57 . Ian work with many Ministers and the Secretary of State when the Ministry ' s second headquarters move to the city of Wolverhampton . he will be greatly miss by many people . the Government have make a series of big investment in Wolverhampton , and that have position it as the centre of the home building industry . that include million of pound for the National Brownfield Institute , the city learn quarter , and the Modern Methods of Construction taskforce . will my hon . friend the Minister support my campaign for an investment zone in Wolverhampton North East , stretch from Springfield brewery to the science park ? that would help attract business to Wolverhampton , where they could capitalise on the expertise that our city now have in home building technology , and attract high - quality job to my constituency . I join my hon . friend in pay tribute , on my behalf and on behalf of all Ministers in the Department , to Councillor Ian Brookfield . I thank my hon . friend very much for her question . she be an absolutely superb advocate for her constituent and the city of Wolverhampton . I be pleased to tell she that the investment zone programme be under way ; a shortlist of eight place in England select for inclusion in the programme be announce in the spring Budget , and the west midland be one of they . we be co - develop proposal , and we will look very carefully at her proposal , for the reason that she set out . I draw my hon . friend the Minister ' s attention to the uncertain future of the housing development in Long Eaton in my constituency . it have be at a standstill since the termination of the house builder ' s contract 10 month ago . what further support be available to encourage the site owner to complete the more than 100 home plan for the site , so that the development be not leave to deteriorate beyond repair ? I be of course concerned to hear about the situation that my hon . friend highlight , and I would be pleased to discuss it with she in more detail , if that would be helpful . more generally , we be introduce a range of measure to increase transparency about build - out , to ensure that when development proposal be bring forward , the development actually get build . labour - run Kirklees Council be take in million of pound from housing developer through the section 106 levy , but local people be lose confidence in the system , as they just do not see the money be spend on local school , local road or local health service . do the Minister agree that developer contribution , which be give to improve local infrastructure that be affect by major housing development , should be spend on just that ? my hon . friend highlight a most unsatisfactory state of affair from Labour - run Kirklees Council . we be introduce a new infrastructure levy that will bring much - need transparency . local authority , include Kirklees , should be spend that precious money on the infrastructure need for local people . with the growth in development of new housing across my constituency , we must ensure that adequate provision be in place to meet the essential need of resident , such as at the Bramshall Meadows development , where resident be wait for the play space they be promise , and at Branston Locks , where new healthcare service be need to support that development . can the Minister provide an update on what be be do to guarantee the successful and timely integration of these vital facility in new housing development ? my hon . friend highlight well on behalf of her constituent the vital and press need for the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , which include measure to tackle exactly the issue she have highlight . it will introduce a new infrastructure levy , which will reform the system of developer contribution , bring certainty and transparency over the infrastructure need to be deliver alongside development . to address the housing crisis , we need to be build more home for social rent , and planning department must be properly resource in personnel and funding . will my hon . friend set out the step she be take to address those two specific issue ? my hon . friend speak with considerable expertise on these matter . we know that many local planning authority be face capacity and capability challenge , which be why we have develop a programme of support , work with partner across the planning sector , to put more skill and capacity into planning authority . our levelling up White Paper be commit to increase the supply of social rent home across the country . Lib Dem - run Eastleigh Borough Council , which be develop 2 , 500 home on Horton Heath , last week pass a planning amendment to recklessly remove all affordable housing obligation , despite its be the developer of the site . will my hon . friend condemn that cynical move and assure I that no Homes England money will be use to backfill the gap ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the reckless behaviour of his liberal Democrat - run council . I completely agree that it be a disgraceful state of affair . the council should be use that funding secure to deliver the affordable housing that his resident rightly need and deserve . as he suggest , Homes England will definitely not be contribute to backfilling that need . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I do not doubt the Minister ' s good intention on house building , but do she accept that , accord to her own Department ' s figure , housing start fall by 12 % year on year in the first three month of this year ? that be down to a figure of just more than 37 , 000 start , which be half the figure need to hit 300 , 000 home a year . on that basis , do she conclude like I that not merely be her policy not succeed in hit the housing target , but it be considerably contribute to their failure ? the hon . Gentleman bring his considerable knowledge to this matter , but I will take no lecture from he and the Labour party on house building . this Government deliver 242 , 000 house in 2019 - 20 — that be the high level for more than 30 year , include the entire time that the Labour party be in government . we do not just need to build affordable home ; we also need to build high - quality home that be fit for the future and climate - resilient . in the past six year , the average cost of repair a home from flood damage have be £ 60 , 000 a property , and Aviva calculate that one in four home be now at risk of flooding . will the Government ensure that their propose national planning policy framework will finally prevent unprotected home from be build in flood risk area ? the hon . Lady raise an important issue . the consultation on the NPPF have be well subscribe . we be analyse the response now , but I be sure we will be able to say more in due course . in Westmorland and Lonsdale , average house price be 12 time average household income . the danger we have be that when we see house develop , we be meet demand , but not need . should the Government not give we far great planning control , so that we can ensure that we do not see 100 home build that be a waste of brick go into the second home market ? instead , we should ensure that they be affordable home , socially rent for local family . local authority have a huge amount of freedom . they have be give the tool by the Government through legislation , through developer contribution power and through Homes England grant to deliver affordable home . the hon . member will also know about the wide work we be do on second home to enable local authority to raise council tax . I hope he can see that the direction of travel will help alleviate some of the pressure he have highlight . the Government be notoriously bad at dispose of public land — I need only look at NHS Property Services and the seven - year wait on the Bootham Park hospital site , and at Ministry of Defence land — so will the Minister look at how that can be co - ordinated and hand over to Homes England so that we can get build the housing that be desperately need in place such as York ? the hon . Lady will be pleased to hear that this be a priority for we . I take issue slightly with her comment that we have a poor record of dispose of public land . often , that public land be need by hospital and the MOD . so we be work closely and look at where such land can be bring forward for housing . if it can , we absolutely will be do that . among the SNP failure that the Secretary of State choose not to mention be the fact that , since the SNP come to government in 2007 , we have be build new council and social - rent house at nine time the rate of any Government cover England . do the Minister accept that if successive Labour and Tory Governments have follow the SNP ' s example in Scotland , the housing crisis in England would be far less than it currently be ? no . I thank the Minister very much for her response . one of the key issue be for urgent planning decision to be make . the Minister have a keen interest in Northern Ireland , where the population have rise by about 100 , 000 up to 1 . 9 million . one thing that need to be do be on infrastructure decision , which need to be make here nationally , not regionally . what discussion have she have with the Northern Ireland Assembly to ensure that those decision can be make to the benefit of all of we in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? only if the Assembly sit . I thank the hon . Gentleman so much . he be an active participant in all the debate we have on these issue . I continue to work closely with he and his colleague in Northern Ireland , because we can work together and learn lesson from each other . I call the shadow Secretary of State . do the Government realise how absurd all of this sound ? their own flagship Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , which be currently make its way through the House of Lords , have measure in it to block new home from be build , and yet the Minister stand here berate council for get in the way . all of this be happen because conservative Back Benchers have more control of housing policy than their government . so when the local Conservative MP in Cambridge say that his late scheme " will not happen " , he be probably right , be he not ? I do not quite know how to give that a serious response . I have just set out in huge detail all the work back by public funding — taxpayer ' money — go into deliver the house that people need up and down the country . as far as I can see , the only people block housing development be those such as the hon . Lady , who be object to development in her own constituency . it be literally in the Government ' s own Bill — they be try to block new house from be build . they have have 17 housing Ministers and three planning overhaul , and house building be at its low level for a generation . which clause ? the Secretary of State want to talk now — why do he not take the question ? I suspect it be because he have again run into so much opposition from his Back Benchers about a story brief only yesterday that he have have to abandon it . one hundred small and medium - sized house builder have be protest to Downing Street and mortgage have go through the roof . it really do take some brass neck to present that as anything other than an appalling record . I have in my hand an analysis that show that all this chaos will cost the economy £ 44 billion . be the Government the only people leave in Britain who can not admit that the housing crisis , the mortgage crisis , the cost of live crisis and the economic crisis have one cause : tory government ? that be a flight of fantasy with several hundred question . I be happy to engage with the hon . Lady on the detail of the clause in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , but I be proud of the Government ' s record in bring forward levelling - up across the whole country , with house building back by billion of pound of public funding and taxpayer ' money . as I say in answer to the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , our house building record be great than that of her party for the entire time they be in government . rough Sleeping what step his Department be take to end rough sleeping . the Government be commit to end rough sleeping . last year we publish our cross - government strategy " Ending Rough Sleeping for Good " , which set out how we be invest a huge £ 2 billion over three year to tackle homelessness and rough sleeping . in 2022 there be 25 % less rough sleeping than the 2017 peak , and 28 % less than in 2019 , before the pandemic . the good way to tackle rough sleeping and homelessness be to increase the supply of house for people to live in . a joint report have be release today by the all - party parliamentary group for housing market and housing delivery , which I chair , and the all - party parliamentary group for end homelessness , which be chair by my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) and the hon . member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) . the report find that we could bring 20 , 000 house on to the market through conversion . will the Minister meet I and a local charity that be very keen to do that , to discuss how we can take that forward ? I would be delighted to come to Milton Keynes to meet my hon . friend and his local charity . I want to reassure he that this Government be commit to increase the supply of affordable housing and to ensure that all house be safe and of a decent standard . I look forward to read in detail the APPGs ' recommendation . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . I have be delighted to confirm that Lord Morse will be the new chair of the Office for Local Government . we be advertise the post of chief executive , which would suit someone with experience of local government who be look for a new role , so I will pass on detail to the shadow Secretary of State . follow the wonderful news that the Leslie Sports Foundation , base at Shelley Community football club , have be award £ 318 , 456 from the community ownership fund , will Minister visit the foundation to view its exist facility and discuss its exciting plan for the newly fund one ? I congratulate my hon . friend on be a brilliant advocate for that project . I have no doubt that the work of the Leslie Sports Foundation will make a huge difference to the life of people in his constituency . the Minister for Levelling up , my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) , would be delighted to visit . I call the shadow Minister . it be now over four year since the Conservatives promise to ban section 21 no - fault eviction . it need strengthen , but the Government finally publish a Renters ( Reform ) Bill in May this year . give the desperate situation that many renter be currently face , and the urgent need to provide they with great security and well right , why have the Government not lift a finger to progress that legislation in the week since it be publish ? I share the hon . Gentleman ' s desire to do more to help people in the private rent sector but , as he will have hear , we want to make sure that we have a fit - for - purpose impact assessment so that the House could reflect on the change that we be make and the benefit they will bring . what assessment have the Department make of the use of cash retention in the construction industry and of possible measure that could prevent the practice , which cause cash - flow issue and costly administrative burden for subcontractor , include those involve in house building ? my hon . friend will know that that policy area be lead by the Department for Business and Trade . nevertheless , it be important that we work closely with a wide range of stakeholder and business to achieve a consensus . it can sometimes be challenging , but we be clear that any solution must be a sustainable one that work for the industry and its client , address the need for surety and fair payment . it have be more than 50 day since the Renters ( Reform ) Bill be introduce to Parliament . despite ample parliamentary time , the Government have fail to set a date for second Reading . in the last few week alone , the House have finish at 2 pm and 5 pm due to the Government bring forward no business . why do the Government not care about renter ? the Bill , as you know , Mr Speaker , be beautifully form , but the impact assessment that go with it , as I point out early to my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , need to be read in the round to see what a great piece of legislation it be . one thing that would enable we to bring forward legislation be if the Labour party be to end its pointless opposition to our Illegal Migration Bill . it be curious that the Labour party seem keener on be on the side of people smuggler than it be on the side of the private rent sector . the recent transfer of the administration of home equity loan from Target to Lenvi have go appallingly badly , with my constituent report unanswered email and phone that ring out with no reply when they be look to transfer their home in a time - critical phase . will my right hon . friend update I on what be go on with the administration ? I have be have daily meeting with Homes England and the service provider . it be the case that there have be some issue with the transfer , as my hon . friend highlight . I want anyone listen to this to know that they can contact either their local MP or the service line , and we will resolve it . I have insist that additional call centre staff be available and extend working hour . we be very much see the issue be work through at pace now . accord to figure from PricedOut , over the last 50 year housing have become over 13 time more expensive and tenant be now spend up to half their income on rent alone . if that trend continue , only one in three people bear this year will own a home before they be 50 . the Government ' s scrapping of housing target and surrender to Back Benchers oppose to new housing will only make the situation even bad . when will the Government grow a backbone , stand up to those mp and build the house we need to avoid catastrophe ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman but , as be point out early in these question , the area of the country where housing number be bad , where planning permission be be build out most slowly and where the few planning permission be be grant overall have be London , under a Labour Mayor . I want to work with the Mayor to see he emulate what the Conservative Mayor in the west midland , Andy Street , have do to deliver housing . my right hon . friend will know from my constant lobbying of he that it be my belief that the revenue support grant mechanism be inherently unfair and mean that rural authority such as Dorset , and particularly in West Dorset , receive little if any revenue support grant compare to the ten of million that many urban area , such as Wandsworth , receive . will my right hon . friend kindly tell I what he be do to restore that balance and fairness for rural area ? my hon . friend have absolutely make this case on multiple occasion , both to my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and to myself . he be a champion for West Dorset and for rural community in general . we will continue to work with local mp who be concerned about this , but I would just gently point out that the primacy and the desire of the local government sector in this financial year have be for clarity and consistency , which be what we have provide to they through the local government financial settlement this year . while the government drag their heel on section 21 , thousand of family be be evict through no fault of their own by rapacious landlord — let ' s be honest about it — with 2 , 000 family in May alone this year . that be not acceptable . meanwhile , the Secretary of State have be have cosy meeting with private landlord ' association , which give the impression he be on the side of the landlord and not the renter . will he at least say now that the Bill will come back in September ? I be very grateful to the hon . Gentleman . I hope that my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch hear the careful case he prosecute when he say I be on the side of the landlord . in fact , I be on the side of a healthy private rent sector . the overwhelming majority of landlord do a brilliant job and I want to pay tribute to the National Residential Landlords Associations and Ben Beadle for their effective work in this area . the Department have a very large number of consultation either go out to consultation or be assess right now . now that my private Member ' s Bill , the Supported Housing ( Regulatory Oversight ) Bill , have receive Royal Assent , when will my hon . friend start the consultation require to enact it , so that we can kick out rogue landlord ? I congratulate my hon . friend on his excellent private Member ' s Bill , which the Government be happy to support as it tackle a very real problem . the Bill have receive Royal Assent and will become law on 29 August ; we will start the consultation as soon as be practicable thereafter . last week at business question I raise the case of Tyrrell Court in Wakefield , where the social landlord , Wakefield and District Housing , have add a new service charge for communal lighting on top of the charge for window cleaning and communal cleaning , despite people have be tenant for 20 year without ever be charge that fee before . it add up to £ 125 extra per year . be the Secretary of State as concerned as I be that landlord be introduce these charge when people can afford they least ? it do indeed sound a concern case , and we will follow up . property management company be undoubtedly hold back home ownership . new homeowner be often oblige to sign up to contract that they can not leave . that leave they stick with inflated fee , and very often with poor service . I be sure the Minister agree that management company need their activity curb ; they need legislation impose on they so that we can get back to a fair system of housing . I agree entirely . I thank my hon . friend for the excellent debate that he bring to Westminster Hall , in which we discuss these issue in detail . I be happy to reiterate to the House that we will legislate , when parliamentary time allow , to deal with many of the issue that he have raise that be affect freehold homeowner . the Secretary of State say that he have the noble aim of abolish the feudal leasehold system . could he update the House on his progress on the abolishment of that feudal system ? it will be in the King ' s Speech , God willing . the A38 be the main route to the large city on the Devon and Cornwall peninsula . this nationally significant route need substantial work between Carkeel and Trerulefoot in my constituency . what work be the Department do with the Department for Transport to make that a reality ? my hon . friend highlight the importance of nationally significant infrastructure programme all across the country . it be vital that we speed up those project and make sure that they deliver for local people more quickly . my hon . friend be a champion for the A38 ; I know that she will be talk to the Department for Transport , and I be happy to do so as well . the Secretary of State say that the Scottish Government be not use the power that they have , but it be his Government who keep veto Scottish Government policy and legislation that have be pass by the Scottish Parliament . do that not just show that the Conservatives never want devolution in the first place and can now barely contain their glee at get to roll back the power of devolution ? no , it be the Scottish National party that do not want devolution ; it want independence . it be in the name , isn ' t it ? they be nationalists and they want to break up the United Kingdom ; we extend devolution within England and we support it in Scotland . thank to the Government ' s brownfield land release fund , Solihull Council be get on with the job of regenerate Kingshurst village centre , include by build new environmentally friendly house . with that in mind , will the Secretary of State accept my invitation to see at first hand the progress of the regeneration of Kingshurst village centre , and see how it can be support far by a successful levelling - up fund round 3 application ? once again , my hon . friend make a brilliant case on behalf of the resident of Solihull borough . Fife Council be currently work on the detail of the levelling - up fund , which give we some of our own money back under the last round . Most of that money — over £ 14 million — be for connectivity project relate to the very welcome reopening of the Levenmouth rail link . since the bid be put together , it have become clear that by far the most important connectivity project associate with that reopening be the construction of a pedestrian footbridge to maintain the ancient public right of way at doubledyke cross in the middle of my constituency . if it become clear that the project have support from the community , will the Secretary of State allow Fife Council to reallocate the funding — order . please — these be topical . I have give you the advantage of have two go . Don ' t take advantage of the rest of the Members , please . I will investigate the matter . it be important that public access be maintain . I do sympathise with the hon . gentleman : give that there be now no Labour Back Benchers leave to ask question , he have to take the opposition responsibility on his shoulder . may I thank the Levelling up Minister for her time when we meet to discuss community project in Bracknell ? East Berkshire would also welcome its fair share of level - up love , so could she please advise on the how and when for the next tranche of funding ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for outline the concern of local resident , show why level up be also need in part of the country like Bracknell . we will imminently announce full detail of level - up round 3 , and I will , of course , provide he with those detail when we have they . to strengthen the Union , and with the Windsor framework not able to answer all the difficulty due to the Northern Ireland protocol , what recent discussion have take place with Cabinet colleague on press the EU for a common - sense approach and on make the necessary adjustment to keep Northern Ireland a functional and integral part of the UK , which be the will of the people ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that it be the clearly express will of Northern Ireland ' s people to be embed in the United Kingdom , and we need to make sure that the EU take a constructive approach , follow on from the publication of the Windsor framework . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary and the Northern Ireland Secretary be take that forward . Eastbourne secure £ 20 million in round 1 of the Government ' s levelling - up fund , part of which be set to transform a disuse dairy and downland farm into a world - class visitor centre . will previously successful constituency , such as mine , be eligible to apply for the forthcoming round 3 ? we have big plan for the seafront . my hon . friend continue to be a fantastic champion for Eastbourne . we will be announce full detail of level - up round 3 in due course , but we be take on concern , from those who have previously receive funding and from those who have not , to make sure that we get this third round absolutely right . so Chorley will do well ? playground be often a godsend for stressed parent . they be great for kid ' development , and they be free entertainment during all these cost of living pressure . will my right hon . friend consider earmark a fund so that parish council and community group can bid to improve area that be in a poor state or that lack the inclusive equipment we all want to see ? my hon . friend be a brilliant champion for well provision of playground and strong support for family and young people . the community ownership fund be available for some of the purpose she mention , but I look forward to work with she to do more in this area . rape and Sexual Violence : Criminal Justice Response with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement on measure to improve the criminal justice response to rape and sexual violence . this Government be unswervingly commit to protect the public and fight crime . as I be sure member across the House will agree , few part of that mission be as important as the ongoing effort to tackle rape and sexual violence . as I hear on my recent visit to Greater Manchester police , these be sicken , destructive crime that can only have a significant impact on human dignity . they be a betrayal of everything we stand for as a law - abide society , and they can have profound and lifelong consequence . my thought and prayer be with every single victim . although we be unite in our outrage at these horrific act , sadly we can not turn back the clock . what we can do , and what this Government be determined to do , be ensure that the criminal justice system do not add to the suffering and trauma experience by victim and survivor . on that note , I will update the House on the work be do to drive improvement in the criminal justice response to rape and sexual violence . two year ago , in the rape review , the Government set out step to transform support for victim and to ensure case be fully investigate and rigorously pursue through the court . crucially , we hear that many victim who have report to the police feel that they be the one under investigation and do not feel believe . for example , we know that victim have face digital strip search , with intrusive request for access to their mobile phone . last year , we change the law to end such distressing and intrusive practice , and to protect victim ' right to privacy where it be necessary . we be introduce new legislation through the Victims and Prisoners Bill so that therapy note and other personal record be access only when necessary and proportionate to an investigation . but we must go far . the investigation of rape must be no different from the investigation of any other crime , with the focus firmly on the suspect . to support police to transform its response to rape , the Home Office have already provide over £ 6 million to Operation Soteria , bring together more than 50 world - lead academic from across the country , lead by Professor Betsy Stanko and Professor Katrin hol , and frontline officer from 19 police force , to develop the new national operating model for rape and serious sexual offence investigation . this model , launch today , mean that all police force in England and Wales will now have the tool they can apply to conduct suspect - focus investigation which ensure victim ' need and right be central ; through the College of Policing , they can access learning to develop their skill and build a comprehensive understanding of the psychology of sexual offending . nineteen police force have participate in the programme , and we have already see sign of change . all pathfinder force have see an increase in the number of case be refer to the Crown Prosecution Service and a reduction in the average number of day take for a charge outcome to be assign . charge volume in Avon and Somerset have more than triple , rise from seven charge to 22 charge in October to December 2022 . the Met have see an 18 % reduction in victim withdraw , with this fall from 743 case before Soteria to 611 case in October to December 2022 . the charge rate in Durham have increase , rise from 2 . 6 % to 12 . 6 % since that force ' s involvement in Operation Soteria . the number of case be refer to the CPS by West Midlands police have double , with it rise 108 % , from 26 to 54 case ; and charge volume in South Wales have increase by 110 % , rise from 10 case before Operation Soteria to 21 case in October to December 2022 . my right hon . and learn Friend the Home Secretary and I be encourage that all police force in England and Wales have commit to implement this new approach . we have already meet , or be on track to meet , the ambitious target set out in the review ahead of schedule : to more than double the number of adult rape case reach court by the end of this Parliament ; and to return the volume of case be refer to the police , charge by the CPS and go to court to at least 2016 level . we want to go far and fast , and we be do exactly that by provide a furth £ 8 . 5 million to continue to support the police to improve their response to rape . that will be use to establish a new joint unit with the National Police Chiefs ' Council and the College of Policing to oversee and support force as they implement the model , continue to draw on academic expertise and oversight . we will continue to roll out a government - fund uplift in technical capacity and capability to ensure that no adult victim of rape be without a phone for more than 24 hour . the NPCC and College of Policing have also make significant commitment : 2 , 000 police investigator will complete specialist training on the investigation of rape and sexual offence by April next year . a new first responder course will be compulsory for all new police recruit from April next year , to ensure that victim of rape get the right support and treatment they need at the time of reporting . we will also consult police partner on the most effective way those officer can be use , include the effectiveness of dedicated rape and sexual assault investigatory unit . Operation Soteria have show the importance of scrutiny to drive progress , which be why the Home Secretary have also commission his Majesty ' s inspectorate of constabulary and fire and rescue service to carry out a thematic inspection on force ' implementation of the Soteria model . I want to be clear : there be furth to go and there be no room for complacency . we want victim to have the confidence to report these crime , know they will get the support they need , and that everything possible can and will be do to bring offender to justice . this government will work with police to do everything in our power to ensure that happen , and I commend this statement to the House . I of course welcome today ' s statement — any progress on this issue be to be welcome — but I would outline that the rape review be commission in 2019 . it then take two year to publish , and we rightly get an apology from the Government for the catastrophic decline in prosecution . however , the report contain only piecemeal change , which be why , another two year on , we be here today discuss progress , yes , but marginal progress . in the datum outline by the Minister on the number of case now be charge , she do not make it clear that hundred of case be still not charge in each police force area she speak of . the Government seek to get back to 2016 standard , without recognise that it be on their watch that the system crash . charge and prosecution drop to their low level on record , just at the time when rape offence record by the police skyrocket to record level . what the Government be celebrate today be simply the beginning of a reversal of their failure of survivor — like smash a vase and celebrate when it be half stick back together with sellotape . in this time , countless rape victim have be leave unsupported , or have drop their case or never even come forward . this morning , I receive a text message from a rape victim I have be support , who wait over five year for her case to be hear . she say : " be there anyway I can see you this week ? I really need to speak to someone before all this get any bad , I just can not deal with my own head right now . " she , like thousand of other , have be let down by the system , and the public have be leave at risk , with attacker still walk free . the number that the Government have not mention today be those for outstanding rape case , which show a record high of 2 , 040 , up from 1 , 379 a year previously . More rape victim be wait long than ever before . the Government ' s own scorecard for 2022 have the attrition figure at a staggering 62 % . survivor be still be leave unsupported and be drop their case . will the Minister say whether the Government will back Labour ' s proposal for all rape victim to have legal advocate , when my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham West and Penge ( Ellie Reeves ) push that amendment tomorrow in the Victims and Prisoners Public Bill Committee ? Rape Crisis have call for it , the Labour party would do it , and the victim need it . will the Government vote against support for rape victim tomorrow ? the green shoot of police improvement from Operation Soteria be welcome , as be its roll - out as a national operating standard . however , to be successful , it must maintain that academic rigour and independent input throughout the national implementation . it can not just be a good pilot that be spread out to police force as a checkbox . will the Minister confirm that the academic rigour that the scheme start with will continue in every one of the 43 force , as it be roll out ? the total number of charge for adult rape in quarter 1 of 2016 be 2 , 270 . in quarter 4 of 2022 , it be 1 , 748 , a 23 % drop . Labour announce over two year ago that we would implement specialist rape court , list rape case as a priority and fast - track they . the Labour party have call again and again for specialist rape and sexual offence unit in every police force , something that still do not exist . the Government say today that they be have a think about they . I ask that they think a little fast . if they have listen , they could have all be roll out and could be support survivor now . labour would also increase the number of prosecutor , to put rapist behind bar and reduce the record backlog across the court . we welcome progress , but the Government could and should be do much more . I thank the hon . Lady for those comment . I be afraid that I do not accept that the work have be piecemeal . this be a sea change in how the model be be operate . I have do some research , my civil servant have do some research , and I have speak to the academic and the people who meet victim all the time . there be no other country in the world , that I can find , that have a similar operating model . over 50 academic have work tirelessly with some excellent officer . this be not piecemeal ; this be a sea change , but there be a lot more to do . I do not accept that the change be marginal . it be fundamental . this be a different way of look at victim and the suspect . it must not be forget that all crime , not just particular , different sort of crime , need to be hammer down and stop by the Government . that be what we expect from the judiciary , the police and the Crown Prosecution Service . yes , rape case be of course far too high ; they be come down , and more must be do . I , too , be concerned about attrition . we must change that , so that we can support our woman , and boy and man at time , who have be rape . there be academic rigour , and it will be roll out . there will be proper monitoring , and there be a proper unit to make sure that the operating model be roll out properly . the question of specialist rape court be bring up often by the hon . Lady . of course , it be a very complex matter . with respect , all victim of crime deserve decent , proper court . we should not be single out one offence over another , because all these crime be heinous and they all deserve a resolution to the complex situation . we have already complete a national roll - out of pre - record evidence , which be one of the main thing victim ask about when they want special rape trial . through that roll - out of pre - record evidence , we be spare victim the ordeal of appear before a live courtroom , which help they to give their good evidence . we be talk today about evidence . to ease the court process far , we be update the victim code , so that member of the Crown Prosecution Service team must meet rape victim ahead of their court case to answer their question and allay any fear they have . in the next phase of our specialist sexual violence support project , we will ensure that at participate Crown court , include Snaresbrook , where I commonly work , Leeds and Newcastle , the option to remotely observe a sentencing hearing by video link be available to any adult rape victim who need it , subject to the judge ' s agreement . these be complex issue . the work be on evidence , not rhetoric . we be get there , but there be a lot more to do . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . I gently say to my hon . friend the Minister that some kind of offence can and should be single out . actually , that be exactly what we have do with the strategy on violence against woman and girl , with the landmark Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , because we have to recognise that sexual offence against woman have a particular personal , traumatic impact , and we need to do more . however , I be pleased to hear her single out Avon and somerset police , and I pay tribute to Chief Constable Sarah Crew , who be the most amazing woman and have spearhead effort in that police force to ensure victim be treat sensitively , appropriately and swiftly . the same can not be say about every police force . we be now some four month or so on from the Casey review into the Metropolitan police , and too many woman still say to I that they do not want to report a crime against they to the Met because they have no confidence that it will be treat fairly and properly , and that they will not end up be the one on trial . what more can my hon . friend the Minister do to instil , as she put it , " confidence to report crime " , when it come to our capital ' s police force ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend ; I know she do great work in this area . I too have be thoroughly impressed at my many meeting with Sarah Crew . she really be a breath of fresh air and I put a lot of hope in the way that she have manage to roll out new idea about how to police this area . of course these be heinous crime and very special offence . in relation to the Metropolitan police , I have meet the commissioner and the deputy commissioner , and I sense there be a change . the oil tanker be move . at the moment , it be move too slowly ; it need to move fast . I be optimistic about the new training that new officer be receive . the emphasis on specialist train officer be encouraging and I be sure we will see progress . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . I associate myself with the word of the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , the right hon . member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) . I agree with everything that she just say . More than a year ago , the Home Affairs Committee recommend that all police force should establish specialist rape investigation team . we know that they produce well decision making , can address delay and improve communication with victim and the CPS . we also urge the Government to collect and publish datum on the number of police officer in each force with specialist rape and serious sexual offence training . can the Minister explain why specialist rape investigation team be still not in place in every police force and what she will do about that ? can she confirm how many serve police officer , as of today , have receive specialist training on rape and serious sexual assault ? what proportion of the 20 , 000 new recruit will also receive that specialist training ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her incisive question . I suggest that the issue be about specialism , rather than specialist unit . all police force have different operational way of work . she will recall the evidence of Sarah Crew , who say that there be no quick fix for each particular force . she say that every force must look closely at the way they be operate . however , specialism of training be key . the National Police Chiefs ' Council be very firmly look at what will be roll out . the module in relation to domestic abuse and to rape and serious sexual offence be be update . the right hon . Lady be quite right to point to training , as that be important . she mention datum , which be also very important . we be improve and collect more datum — far more than have be collect previously , as far as I be advise . I be optimistic that we be work together . her Committee play a vital role in assist the expert and inform the way that they work . I welcome the Government ' s measure on rape and sexual violence , but I invite the Minister to consider this : Colin Pitchfork , who brutally rape and horrifically murder two teenage woman in my constituency be be provisionally release by the independent Parole Board . I know that she do not have responsibility for the Parole Board , but what my constituent and , I think , the wide british public do not understand be how somebody who have commit appal sexual violence against two young woman can possibly be release ? do she agree that that position can only be regard as irrational ? I agree with my hon . friend . the case of Colin Pitchfork be dreadful , and I be very aware that the Ministry of Justice be work hard on that . recently , my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor say that he expect more work to be do in this space . I commend my hon . friend for the hard work that he do in his constituency and nationally in this area . it be clear that Operation Soteria be see improvement , but , frankly , the bar be very low . I associate myself with the comment of the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee that the crime that we be discuss be different . faith in police and the justice sector more generally be impact when a force that be use Soteria — the Met — be find in the Casey report to have " a strategic and operational failure to tackle rape and sexual offence … which compound the harm of the victim . " I note in the Minister ' s statement comment in relation to the thematic inspection . it be not just about training , but about ensure that those resource have the time and capability to be able to investigate those crime . will the thematic inspection be look at that ? as far as I have be instruct , the inspector will be look at that . the Casey review make for very sobering reading . it be paramount that public trust in the Met be restore , and we have to work hard on that . the Home Secretary have make it very clear that standard must and will improve in the Met as a matter of urgency . she , like I , will continue to hold the commissioner and the Mayor of London to account for deliver that change . I thank the hon . Lady for her continue interest in this important area of work . do my hon . friend agree that , in order to rid victim of the feeling of shame associate with rape and to encourage more victim to speak out , the investigation of rape must focus on the suspect , rather than the undermining and digital strip searching of the victim ? my hon . friend make one of the most important point so far this afternoon . the shame and blaming must change : we need to treat rape sensitively and focus a little more on the aggressor — the alleged rapist — to ensure that there be more fairness and justice in investigation . that have be lack . the Government be clear about that when they apologise recently for the way that this issue have not be look into sufficiently . we need to believe the victim and make sure that there be fairness in the way that the evidence be obtain . we all welcome progress , however small that may be . the Minister have say that the tanker be slowly turn , and there be a lot more to do . do she not agree that one major issue be around people have the confidence to engage with the system , which would be well serve by its embrace the principle of the independent legal advocate scheme ? the Government do not agree at this stage that that be the right way forward . the crux of the matter lie with specialism of the investigation — with sensitive policing , listen to victim and let they know , for example , that they can have their digital equipment and their telephone back in 24 hour , rather than have they take by the police and on some occasion leave for week or month without be return . it be all about confidence , but it be also about specialism of the investigate officer and of the prosecutor . I have a constituent who be brutally rape in the ' 80 . despite present the evidence then and again more recently , she never get the support or the justice she deserve , due to failing within the Met . can the Minister spell out what precise support historical victim of rape will receive follow the review ? will it mean that , for my constituent and other victim of rape , justice will finally be secure ? as far as I be aware , through the Ministry of Justice ' s new Victims and Prisoners Bill , all victim will receive further assistance . these be heinous crime , and whether the crime happen a day , a year , a decade or 50 year ago , all victim deserve support . I congratulate my hon . friend on the amount of work that she do in this area and I will be happy to write to she , or to get the relevant Minister in the Ministry of Justice to write to she , with more particular . in the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , the Government introduce pre - record cross - examination to allow victim to pre - record their evidence and spare they the trauma of attend court in person . what progress have be make across the court system with those new procedure ? also , can the Minister reassure I and my constituent that , when sentence , rapist be now serve long in prison than they be before ? give confidence to anybody who appear in court be important , particularly with this sort of heinous crime . as I mention early , we have complete a national roll - out of that pre - record evidence , which spare the victim of those ordeal and really make a massive difference . it be one of the thing that be bring up time and again when I speak to victim : they want to give their evidence in a fair way and not to feel that they be on trial . that be exactly why the Government be roll out pre - record evidence . the victim code will go even far in allow and in fact mandate prosecutor to meet people who be about to give evidence and who have be the victim of an allege rape . it be a really good step forward and I commend the victim code to the House . I thank the Minister very much for respond to question and for her statement . while I welcome the fact that the 43 police force in England and Wales be to implement a new approach to investigate rape , can I ask the Minister what information share there be with the regional Administrations about these protocol , and what additional funding be available to help the Police Service of Northern Ireland and the Northern Ireland justice system to see this apparently attainable improvement replicate in Northern Ireland ? this holistic new approach be suppose to affect and influence the whole way we deal with fighting rape — investigate , gather evidence and get case before the court . I want to see that specialism and those measure roll out everywhere . I would be very happy to get the relevant Minister to write to the hon . gentleman to explain what more we can do to assist the special situation and what we have in Northern Ireland . it do not matter where someone live ; if a woman or a man have be rape , they deserve to have that support . I be grateful for the question . point of order rise — let we take point of order one at a time . we will start with Andy McDonald and then go across to the Government side . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . last Friday the Northern Echo ' s front page and editorial lament the apparent decision of Advanced Cables to build its new facility on the Tyne rather than the Tees , quote Tees Valley Mayor Ben Houchen and the right hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) , who both blame I for the company so decide , without a single shred of evidence for such a ridiculous notion . company , of course , make their decision on the basis of their own assessment and due diligence process . however , such personal and unfounded attack be not without consequence . last week a senior corporate lawyer , Andrew Lindsay , post on his linkedin account : " if it turn out the enquiry conclude that ' there be nothing to be see here ' and in the meantime some investment and job be lose , local Labour MP , Andy McDonald … should be drag through the street of Teesside and lynched . " that have deeply upset and alarm my family and I . I have report the matter appropriately , but give the murder in recent year of Jo Cox , of Sir David Amess and of Andrew Pennington , Nigel Jones ' s personal aide , and not forget the stabbing of our right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , I seek your guidance on what can be do to ensure that legitimate debate on matter of such significance to our constituent do not spill over in a manner such that the appal comment of the like of Mr Lindsay be increasingly likely . what more can this House do to protect and support member who be on the receive end of such abuse , and to reduce the likelihood of such dreadful outburst , be they on social medium or elsewhere ? I thank the hon . gentleman for give notice of his point of order . as he say , people be entitle to make their view know inside and outside this House , but threat to member be very real , and those who comment should consider the potential effect of their word before post injudiciously , rather than afterwards . I take this very seriously . when he texte I on Friday , I also speak to people about security issue . I will not go into that part of it , but he can rest assure that we will defend member on both side of the House . nobody should be threaten as they carry out their duty . we will certainly not forget those who be murder carry out their duty . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . after a Westminster Hall debate on 4 July , in which the House reassert its commitment to never forget the genocide of Srebrenica and the need to safeguard the Dayton agreement , I be deeply alarmed to see that my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , be threaten by the President of Serbia , who say in response to her speech : " we be already conduct an investigation against you to see what you be do , to see who be pay you , and to see why you be put the Republic of Serbia in such a position . if the Government of Great Britain be not willing to react , it be not a problem ; we will be force to react . " that be an unacceptable statement from a Head of State . it be not just a threat to my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton but an intimidation tactic against all mp . can you reassure I , Mr Speaker , that no pressure bring to bear outside this place , especially by foreign government , will ever endanger the security or privacy of mps , and that the full weight of Parliament will be use to prevent and dissuade bully tactic and ensure that mps can speak the truth ? do you believe , Mr Speaker , that this be a moment at which the serbian ambassador should be call to explain that position and that statement ? I thank the hon . gentleman for give notice of his point of order . it be fundamentally a constitutional principle that mps should be able to speak freely in proceeding of this House . threat to member do their job be totally unacceptable , whoever make they . beyond that , I remind he that we do not discuss operational security matter in public , and he would not expect I to go far than that , but I will say that , of course , we take this seriously , and member should , no matter their position — be they a Back Bencher or a Chair of a Select Committee — be able to speak out openly and freely without intimidation . as a reminder to foreign state : they have no right to threaten anyone in this House . to go a stage far , I be sure that the Treasury Bench will have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s request to summon the ambassador . as he know , that decision be not a matter for I , but I have certainly echo his request for that to take place . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . for the past 13 year , I have have the privilege of be the patron of Stockton Rugby Club , a tremendous community organisation that work with more than 500 boy and girl who play the game and run several youth and adult team . today , I be proud to wear the junior academy tie . would it be in order for I to invite you , Mr Speaker , and colleague across the House to join I in congratulate the club on its 150th anniversary and wish it well for the next 150 year ? of course , even if it be rugby union , I be happy to recognise those 150 year of play rugby . it be just a tragedy that the club do not take up rugby league when the Northern Union be form but , despite that disappointment , of course I congratulate those at the club — 150 year be a significant milestone in any sport . Privileges Committee Special Report we now come to the privilege motion . no amendment have be select . I beg to move , that this House , ( a ) note with approval the Special Report from the Committee of Privileges ; ( b ) consider that where the House have agree to refer a matter relate to individual conduct to the Committee of Privileges , Members of this House should not impugn the integrity of that Committee or its member or attempt to lobby or intimidate those member or to encourage other to do so , since such behaviour undermine the proceeding of the House and be itself capable of be a contempt ; and ( c ) consider it expedient that the House of Lords be make aware of the Special Report and this Resolution , so that that House can take such action as it deem appropriate . in accordance with the convention on matter of privilege , as Leader of the House , I have bring forward this motion to facilitate the House ' s consideration of the first special report of the Privileges Committee , publish on 29 June 2023 . the motion note with approval the Committee ' s special report , and seek to reaffirm essential principle underpin the protection of parliamentary privilege and the functioning of this House and its Committees , make it explicit that the House consider that those protection be fundamental to investigation of the Privileges Committee . paragraph ( c ) draw to the attention of the House of Lords the issue raise in the report through a formal message . the House may wish to know that the Leader of the House of Lords have write to I to emphasise that these be serious and important matter , while recognise that each House be responsible for the organisation of its own affair . the report have be place in the Lords Library , and I know that my noble Friend Lord True be continue conversation with other in that House on this important matter . in my speech on 19 June , I take some time to explain the role of the Privileges Committee and why it matter to all of we here and to our constituent that it exist and that it have people who be prepared to serve on it . in that debate , we also hear some of the thing that member of the Committee have to endure while they carry out the duty this House have require of they . I shall not repeat those point , but I wish to make two further point : first , a pre - emptive strike on an issue that may arise during today ' s debate and , secondly , a personal reflection . undermine a Committee should not be confuse with the expression of legitimate concern about the work or its process . member must be free to raise such concern and there be appropriate way of do so . indeed , the Committee ' s report highlight the various way this can be do , in particular cite the approach of my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , who raise matter before , during and after the Committee ' s original inquiry in a perfectly proper way . if an hon . Member have concern about any matter of privilege and the internal affair of this House and its Committees , they may write to the Speaker , who may afford the issue precedence for consideration . those be the appropriate channel for raise such issue and it be every Member ' s right to do so . I would like to highlight that this an exceptional situation . it be not the usual cut and thrust of politic . a special report of the Privileges Committee regard interference in its work be entirely unprecedented and that have lead I to consider the reason why . be it perhaps because the nature of politic have change so much , or because the obligation we have towards one another , and to this place and the esteem in which we hope it be hold , be less clear ? perhaps it be because we feel little responsibility towards other right hon . and hon . member , even those in our own party , and still less for what our word and deed may encourage other to do outside this place . be it that personal honour matter less , or good manner ? I hope not . I hope that the colleague name will reflect on their action . one of the most painful aspect of this whole affair be that it have involve animosity between colleague of the same political view , but I know of at least one Member name in the report who have take the time to speak with regret to some other member of the Committee , and I applaud they for do so . I hope that some speaker today will acknowledge that obligation we have to one another as colleague . if Castlereagh and canning could adopt polite civility after fight a duel , I live in hope that today will be the end of this sorry affair . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . Lady . over the past few year , the conservative party have drag the reputation of this House through the mud and leave it fester in the gutter . when the Privileges Committee publish its report three week ago , which find that Mr Johnson lie to this House and the people of this country , many people must have think that standard in public life have hit rock bottom — that they could not get any low . however , the shameful action of senior Tory mps , spell out in the report we be debate today , have damage the public ' s trust in Parliament far still . some mp , I be afraid to say , attack the personal character and integrity of individual member of the Committee from the comfort of their own bully pulpit tv show . some accuse the Committee of not follow due process and do everything they could to whip up an atmosphere of distrust , throw their toy out of the pram as if it be one rule for they and their friend , and another for everyone else . they be quite wrong . while their attempt to undermine and attack Britain ' s democratic institution be shocking , it be important that we remember that they be not successful : this House do vote to approve the Committee ' s report into Mr Johnson in full and sanction he appropriately . just like their friend who they be try to get off the hook , unfortunately , the name mps be have to be hold accountable today for their action . I share the desire of the Leader of the House for those member to use today ' s debate to set a line and show that they have recognise what they have do , so that we can move on . that matter because we have to approve the report in full . as it say , " our democracy depend on mps be able to trust that what minister say in the House of Commons be the truth . if Ministers can not be trust to tell the truth , the House can not do its job and the confidence of the public in our whole political system be undermine . " in other word , tell the truth be the foundation of a function Parliament and , when there be allegation that a Minister have not tell the truth , we simply must have a mechanism for investigate they . if we do not , there would be no way to hold they to account . that be the role of the Privileges Committee . the motion we be debate today protect the Committee and allow its member to continue to do their job on our behalf when we instruct they to do so . it ensure that they can carry out their work , so that we and the people of this country can trust what minister say . this be about protect democracy . the motion put into effect the report ' s recommendation , aim to stop mps put improper pressure on the Committee and its member in future , because improper pressure be put on the Committee during the inquiry into Mr Johnson . that be an exceptionally important piece of work that go right to the heart of the public ' s trust in politician . this report now make it clear that , to vary degree — example be list clearly in the annex to the report — the name Tory MPs attempt to discredit the Committee and its conclusion , in some case before they have even see they , and even push for resignation . that ultimately amount to a co - ordinate campaign by Mr Johnson ' s ally to influence the outcome of the inquiry in favour of their friend . co - ordination of a campaign — where be the evidence of that in the report ? it be just an assertion , be it not ? I say that it amount to a co - ordinate campaign , and it do . every single one of those example add up , encourage other — member of the public and other politician — to take part . as I have mention , that be make bad by the fact that two of those mention as mount the most vociferous attack do so from the platform of their own tv show . the name mps accuse the Committee of be a " kangaroo court " and the process of be a " witch hunt " . in reality , as they must know , that could not be further from the truth . the Committee detail its process in advance . it take every possible step to ensure fairness . it take legal advice from the right hon . Sir Ernest Ryder , from Speaker ' s Counsel and from the Clerks of the House on how to " apply the general principle of fairness , the rule of the House , and … procedural precedent " . on the basis of fairness , do the hon . Lady believe it be fair that member of this House be investigate and list in a report without prior knowledge that that be go to happen ? the Committee be open to the Members concern make their representation to the Committee in the proper way , and they do not do so . the Committee publish a report last summer set out its intended process , and member could have take part in a number of way , which I will detail . it make further public comment on its working when appropriate , and give Mr Johnson further time to respond to the evidence and make his own submission . in short , the Committee do everything it possibly could to ensure fairness and transparency . do my hon . friend agree that when the Privileges Committee be meet , it can not engage in answer allegation about what it be do in the press , but have to continue its work until it be complete , and that the rule of the House require that other people should refrain from comment on it or call it into disrepute until the actual document be print and the report have be lay before the House ? my hon . friend be absolutely correct . a cursory glance at the Standing Orders of this place would have inform those member of that . I do want to take a small moment to put again on record my thank to the member of the Committee , from all side of the House , who work so hard to come to a unanimous conclusion , and to the Clerks who , under considerable pressure , continue to work to uphold the integrity of this House and its standard system . in my view , the name mps should apologise . unfortunately , some of they so far have instead double down , claim that what they have say be merely their exercise their right to freedom of speech . that be absolute nonsense . they try to interfere in a disciplinary procedure that be vote for unanimously by this House ; nobody vote against it . if those member have want to , as the report set out , there be other legitimate way open to they as mp who want to influence any Privileges Committee inquiry . I will refresh their memory : they could have have their say on the mp appoint to the Committee : they could have oppose the motion instruct the Committee to look into this in the first place ; and they could have submit evidence . there be any number of legitimate avenue open to they , but instead of properly engage , they pursue illegitimate way . I be afraid this all come back to integrity in politic . last month , when the Committee publish its report into Mr Johnson , the current Prime Minister also have an opportunity to draw a line between he and his predecessor . he could have show some leadership , he could have press the reset button and he could have live up to his promise of integrity , professionalism and accountability , but , mire in split and division in his own party , he be too weak to stand up to his former boss . do the hon . Lady not think that , in a debate on privilege , perhaps now be not the time to enter into cheap party politic ? I have to remind the hon . Gentleman that we be all bind by the same code of conduct , and that include the Prime Minister . the Prime Minister find time last week to comment on cricket , but could not even find time to comment on the lie of his predecessor — I be respond to the hon . Gentleman — or to the Committee . he could have show some leadership , but as well as not vote , he could not even bring himself to give we a view . at the Liaison Committee last week , the Prime Minister say that he have not even read the report . it be not long , and it be about his own mps . have he read the report now ? do he understand why this matter so much , and if so , do the Leader of the House know if we will get to hear what he think of today ' s motion ? do he accept the Committee ' s conclusion ? will he be vote to approve the report in full ? he be the Prime Minister , and this matter because it be a predecessor Prime Minister of his who have bring we to this point by lie to this House . if we want to turn the corner , if we want to move on and if those Conservative Members shake their head really want to turn the corner , it matter that the current Prime Minister have fail even to draw a difference between himself and his predecessor . I feel the hon . Lady do not fully give an answer to my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby ( Lia Nici ) . how would the hon . Lady feel if , on a Monday , she have a letter from a court say she have be find guilty , after a court hearing on the Friday , when she have no prior knowledge of it , no summon and no opportunity to give her evidence ? do that feel like natural justice ? after all , this be nothing to do with Boris Johnson . that be so last week ; this be today . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention because it give I the opportunity to remind the entire House that this be not a court . it be a procedural Committee that be assess evidence that be publicly available . we be talk about tweet and tv show , none of which be hide . the Prime Minister also claim that Lord Goldsmith have quit as a Minister after refuse to apologise for his action . Lord Goldsmith say that be not true , so which be it ? do the Prime Minister ask he to apologise ? more importantly for today ' s debate , have he ask his own name mp to apologise , and if not , why not ? will he do so , and have the right hon . Lady , as the Leader of the House , speak to her colleague about this ? I end by reiterate that the Privileges Committee be a key piece of Britain ' s democratic jigsaw . we must not allow the Committee to be catch up in a Tory psychodrama ; its work be far too important for that . all credit to all the mps on that Committee for put their allegiance to one side and be able to do the work . labour respect the Committee . we respect the rule and process of this House . we know that without they , our democracy fracture . I stand ready to vote for the motion today and to approve the report in full , and I urge colleague in all part of the House to do the same . I call the Father of the House . paragraph 19 of the report read : " we consider that the House should maintain its protection of inquiry into individual conduct refer to the Committee of Privileges in the same way that it do those be consider by the House ' s own Committee on Standards and Independent Expert Panel . " I agree with that . the motion before we be as recommend in paragraph 20 , which be read out by my right hon . friend the Leader of the House , and refer to obliquely by the spokesman for the Opposition , the hon . member for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) — I prefer my right hon . friend ' s approach to the issue . paragraph 8 list the way that " mp have control and legitimate mean of influence over any Privileges Committee inquiry . they have the right : to object to and vote on member appoint to the Committee , and subsequently to raise any alleged conflict of interest on point of order ; to vote against the motion of referral or to seek to amend the motion ; to make comment on the Committee ' s procedure to the Committee itself ; to submit evidence to the Committee ; and to debate , vote and comment publicly on the Committee ' s final report once it be publish and the investigation be complete . " that paragraph seem pretty comprehensive . I think the report be acceptable , and if the motion come to a vote , I will support it . we come to the SNP spokesperson . briefly , I commend the motion on this serious matter , the wording of which be put forward by the Committee of Privileges . as the special report set out , the Committee be " in practice the only mechanism … which the House can use to defend itself in the face of a Minister mislead it . " unfortunately , throughout the inquiry into Boris Johnson , the former Prime Minister and several of his close ally seek to discredit the Committee , the integrity of its member and the parliamentary process . their action do not affect the outcome of the inquiry — thank goodness — but that should not absolve those individual of responsibility or scrutiny . senior politician — one of they a Minister at the time , and other of they former Front Benchers — apply " unprecedented and co - ordinate pressure " on the Committee , as the report make clear , and wage what can only be describe as a campaign to disparage it . they take to Twitter , newspaper , radio and even their own tv show to make their claim , and refer to the inquiry as a " witch hunt " and a " kangaroo court " not befit a " banana republic " . those be among the jaw - drop comment list in the annex to the report . conservative Members might need to read the annex , because they do not seem familiar with some of those comment . it be customary for the Privileges Committee to be chair by a member of the Opposition , yet there be sustain effort to undermine and question the impartiality of the Chair , who be appoint to the Committee by unanimous decision of the House . the pressure exert on Conservative Committee member , who make up a majority of the Committee , be clearly intend to force their withdrawal or impede the conclusion of the inquiry . the hon . Lady say it be customary for the Privileges Committee to be chair by a member of the opposition ; actually , under Standing Orders , it have to be chair by a member of the Opposition . I thank the right hon . Lady for that clarification . I agree with she ; she be quite right . the report also emphasise the significant personal impact that the campaign have on member who be simply try to perform their duty . they should not have be subject to such treatment . it have hitherto be understand that member should refrain from interfere in the work of the Privileges Committee , but that be ignore . explicit protection be already in place for House of Commons standard case involve alleged breach of the code of conduct for mps . when it come to those case , member be prohibit from lobby the Committee on Standards , the Independent Expert Panel or the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards . it seem evident from this episode that those safeguard should also be apply to privilege case . the claim that the change would restrict member ' free speech be misguided . member already have the right to object , to vote and to raise conflict of interest regard Committee appointment , as well as to vote against or amend referral motion , to provide evidence , to comment on procedure and to publicly discuss the final report after its publication . on the issue of be able to comment , can the hon . Lady define for I what " impugn the integrity " mean for what people can say ? forgive I , but the hon . Gentleman be go to have to elaborate a little far . with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will repeat the question . the hon . Lady be talk about the ability to comment , and one of the report ' s key recommendation be that member should not " impugn the integrity of that Committee " . can she define for I what constitute impugn integrity ? for goodness ' sake , that be a ridiculous question . it be clear from the annex attach to this report what impugn the integrity of the Committee mean and what it do not . the comment in the report be jaw - dropping . I be shock that anybody could make such claim when the Committee be in the process of its inquiry . get on to that very point , there be appropriate channel to make our view hear during investigation , and the thing be — member on the Government Benches do not appear to appreciate this — that this whole saga have far undermine the public ' s faith and trust in not just this place , but in democracy itself . it can only fuel the exist sense of cynicism and frustration that we see across society in the UK today . Boris Johnson be show to have lie to the House and to the Privileges Committee , yet some of his most ardent supporter seek to interfere , undermine and attack the integrity of the Committee and its work . it seem appropriate , as I say , to consider whether such campaign should result in disciplinary action . it be no wonder the public be scunnere with it . this whole saga have undermine people ' s faith in this place and in democracy itself . the Prime Minister and most of his Cabinet be not here for the vote on the Committee ' s finding on Johnson , and the Government Front Bench be sadly look pretty empty again today . as one of my constituent put it to I in a surgery just day ago , " if those at the very top won ' t bother observe or even show their support for the rule , why should we ? " . that lead we to a dangerous place indeed . we support the motion . there be some issue with this report , begin , as it happen , with its title refer to a " Co - ordinate campaign of interference " . as be raise by my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) , there be no evidence that it be co - ordinated . speak on my own account — I may get support on this from the Whip on duty and , indeed , the 10 Downing Street press office , be it able to comment — I be not often co - ordinated with the official line to take . indeed , I have always think it politically important that member should be independent in what they say and how they vote . therefore , to make an assertion of co - ordination without evidence be a problem with this report , but it be not the only problem . I question footnote 1 on the bona fide of this report . it state : " the Committee of Privileges be not able to initiate inquiry on its own initiative , but once matter be refer to the House it have ' power to inquire not only into the matter of the particular complaint , but also into fact surround and reasonably connect with the matter of the particular complaint , and into the principle of the law and custom of privilege that be concern ' ( CJ ( 1947 - 48 ) 22 , 30 October 1947 ) . " however , that be surely supersede by the vote in 1978 on how privilege matter should be deal with . paragraph 15 . 32 of " Erskine May " set out the procedure and explain why it be as complex as it be . it state : " the procedure be design to prevent frivolous complaint of breach of privilege . the following safeguard be in place : the Committee of Privileges do not have power to inquire at will , but can only deal with complaint which be refer to it ; decision as to whether to refer a matter of privilege to the Committee of Privileges be take by the House as a whole ; and member require the permission of the Speaker to raise a matter of privilege . " that be not do , and the 1947 Commons Journal entry be prefer to the 1978 motion . that seem to I to have be a mistake . that be not to say that this be necessarily not a serious matter , but the whole reason for the procedure be to ensure that only serious matter be subject to these report . why do the Committee not follow the procedure properly set out by the House in 1978 ? why be the safeguard ignore ? that be before we come to the matter raise by other about individual be name and refer to without any ability to answer . I be not too worried about that . I have say thing on the public record , and if people want to quote I and wish to refer to my television programme on GB News , which they may be jealous of , or whatever other concern they may have , that be absolutely fine . I do not mind that personally , but I do mind that people say they be follow the procedure of the House when the procedure seem to be rather different in " Erskine May " . there be also a modest discourtesy to the House of Lords . the House of Lords have exclusive cognisance , and imply criticism of peer be against the practice of this House , and that be unfortunate . that be unfortunate more from our point of view than from theirs . why do we have this idea of exclusive cognisance so clearly in mind ? it be because in the day of the Supreme Court be the House of Lords , ultimately membership of this House would have be determine by the other House . we have therefore always jealously guard our right of exclusive cognisance , but , in return , we have give it to their lordship . I be concerned that the report have touch and trespass on that . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? it would be an honour , delight , joy to give way . I thank the right hon . gentleman for give way . he have refer to the Privileges Committee — it note this in the report — as a kangaroo court . he say : " I think it make kangaroo court look respectable . " he also refer to the member of the Privileges Committee during its hearing as " marsupial " . on reflection , might he like to apologise for that use of language ? the hon . Lady kindly lead I to what I be go to say next . I have absolutely no desire to impugn the integrity of individual member of the Committee , some of whom I hold in very high regard . do the right hon . Gentleman agree , or will he at least acknowledge , that comment make by member name in the special report raise the risk significantly of harm to member of the Privileges Committee , to the extent that the Parliamentary Security Department feel it necessary to carry out an urgent review of their personal safety , constituency office , constituency event and home ? many member of this House have face issue with security . I do not believe that criticise the action of a Committee have that effect . if the hon . Gentleman really take that route , we will have to agree with each other the whole time . admirable though I think the Leader of the House ' s request be that we should get on well , I be afraid that be knock for six by the shadow Leader of the House , the hon . member for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) , in her rather cantankerous comment that follow . I want to make it clear that I have no intention to impugn the individual member of the Committee . I do indeed hold many of they in the high regard . I serve on the House of Commons Commission with my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) and on the Privileges Committee , under his chairmanship , with the hon . member for Makerfield ( Yvonne Fovargue ) . I have always think it be important to get on well with people across the House and to be courteous to they , as the Lord President of the Council suggest , but that do not mean that one can not criticise they . it be legitimate and it be legitimate to question the position of the Chairman of the Committee . we must be clear about that . in the previous debate , I quote at some length the House of Lords set aside the Lord Hoffmann judgment because of his association with Amnesty International . that make it very clear that the question be the risk of the appearance of partiality . it do not question Lord Hoffmann as a man of honour and integrity , and I certainly do not question the honour and integrity of the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , who be a most distinguished Member of this House , but I do not think that she be wise to serve as Chairman of a Committee when she have tweet her view . we have just hear from the shadow Leader of the House how shocking it be to tweet anything , but it be all right for someone to tweet something when it prejudge a case they be about to hear . that seem to make no sense . I question the report far . as the Father of the House note , paragraph 8 set out how we may question the Committee . however , footnote 10 in paragraph 15 seem to object that I do exactly that in the debate that follow the Committee ' s report . the previous Prime Minister use to get accuse of cakeism , but that seem to be an extreme level of cakeism . the position of the Chairman be fundamental . as it say in Galatians , " a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump . " I be listen with interest , although at time the precision could be great . the Privileges Committee matter mention in the footnote refer to Mr Johnson be refer to the Committee rather than this report , which follow subsequent event . I also read footnote 10 on page six , to which my right hon . friend refer , as explain the answer to the question he raise over Hoffman , not support what he say about Hoffman . be I wrong ? I be point out that , from a reading of paragraph 15 , what I say be see as part of a sustained attempt to undermine and challenge the impartiality of the Chairman in the very debate in which , under paragraph 8 , we be allow to make criticism once the report have be bring to the House . it be a very odd footnote at the very least , and unclear about what it be try to achieve . the problem with the Chairman ' s position be that it undermine the whole validity of the Committee , because it be well know that if a body come to a conclusion , with one person on it whose partiality be questionable , the whole process be then nullify and need to start again . there be also , as we know , currently an investigation into my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) , but that be not know during the course of the Committee ' s deliberation . therefore , nobody could raise that as a question of impugn his integrity until , as I understand it , the report be complete . there may have raise question and there may have be valid question to raise , but they be certainly not raise by I or by any other . let we delve into the detail of the report . it base its privilege claim on " Erskine May " , but I have a nasty feeling that the Committee read just the headline of " Erskine May " without read the relevant footnote and examine the Commons Journal to see what they refer to . I have do that , with considerable help from the Library and the Journal Office . footnote 5 and 6 of the report point to " Erskine May " , 25th edition , paragraph 15 . 14 . that paragraph have 35 further footnote . the House may be relieve to know that I will not go through they all , because many be irrelevant to the report . the footnote deal with matter such as assault member en route to Parliament , which be deem a breach a privilege — one that seem to happen most day to some , but never mind . it be a breach of privilege of great antiquity that the Committee seem unconcerned about . the footnote deal with reflection on the Lord Chancellor or allegation of corruption — none of that apply . however , note 4 , 7 , 21 , 22 , 26 and 27 be worth look at . note 4 concern " insulting or abusive language " . the first example cite come from 1646 . we be make a claim for privilege base on a time when this House be at war . and what be it ? the claim be that one Francis Godolphin — a turncoat who have be rule on the Isles of Scilly — should not in future be criticise because he now support the House of Commons . the House of Commons be protect one of its own in a time of war . that be hardly the great precedent for Committee member not be able to withstand a little criticism today . in 1660 , there be rudeness in the Lobby — an outsider be rude to a Member in the Lobby , and member be very shocked . in 1877 , Dr Kenealy be rude to another Member in the Lobby and be force to apologise . likewise , in 1887 , Dr Tanner be rude to another Member in the Lobby . on that occasion , the motion of censure be withdraw . there be a clear precedent , I accept , that we be not allow to be rude to fellow member in the Lobby . I be very careful throughout this whole process — have I do other , there would have be ground for complaint — not to talk to any member of the Committee about what be in front of their Committee . that , it seem to I , would have be improper and private lobbying that should not take place . I be careful , as I say , not to do that , in spite of the fact that inevitably I meet one or two of the conservative member on many occasion during this process . that seem to I to be cover in broad term by what be set out in footnote 4 . we come now to footnote 7 . footnote 7 be why I think the Committee do not bother read the footnote , because — if this be not my proud achievement in Parliament , I do not know what be — I have actually discover a mistake in " Erskine May " . I see the Clerks at the table almost swoon with horror at that thought . I thank the Commons Journal Office for point this out . the footnote quote the 1862 - 63 Journal ; it be in fact the 1863 - 64 Journal when a Mr Reed be summon to apologise to the House for write a rude letter to a Member of Parliament . Madam Deputy Speaker , what a pity the Privileges Committee have not get on to that ! just think how busy it would be if it look into every rude letter send to a Member of Parliament by a constituent . perhaps it should have do a rolling report , with power accrue to itself to do that . I might have one or two I could send in myself . one or two remainer write to I in the most excoriate term , but I be afraid I have always take that as part of the flotsam and jetsam of political life . if we go to 1890 , a Mr Atkinson be suspend for seven day for offend the Speaker , both on the Floor of the House and in correspondence . epistolary offence be give to Mr Speaker . that be a much more serious matter — surely , Madam Deputy Speaker , you would agree with this — than it be to argue with a member of a Committee , or indeed even the Chairman of a Committee . in 1781 , the wonderfully name Theophilus Swift be call to the Bar and have to apologise for cause offence , and a couple of duel be claim by member against Members . in 1845 , Mr Somers , the Member for Sligo , challenge Mr Roebuck , the Member for Bath ; and in 1862 , a rude letter be send to Sir Robert Peel by the o ' Donoghue , the MP for Tipperary . these be consider to be great breach of privilege , though only apology be require — no further sanction . there be a challenge from Mr o ' Kelly , who apologise to Mr McCoan for another duel . a Mr France be admonish at the Bar in 1874 for be rude about the Chairman of a Committee , but in 1968 - 69 it be deem that criticise the impartiality of the Chairman of a Sub - Committee be not contempt of Parliament , when it be think the issue face by the Chairman of the say Sub - Committee be one where he have a constituency interest and therefore could not be impartial . so I would say — it be unlike I to be such a modernist — that the more modern precedent be on the side of be able to challenge the position of a Chairman of a Committee . in 1900 , there be a letter write by a non - Member about a Select Committee on Government contracting be partial . it be deem a breach and motion be put , but what do the House decide ? the House decide not to vote in favour of the motion , or on the amendment to the motion , but that it now proceed with the business of the day . once again the House in recent century , let alone decade , have become less and less prissy about this type of privilege , because it risk ridicule when it stand upon its honour in this way . in 1901 and 1926 , there be argument with the Daily Mail — some thing never change . it be suggest that the editor of the Daily Mail be bring to the Bar of the House . I believe the Bar be the gift of Jamaica . if we pull it out — which we be not mean to do , because it usually have a sign on it when the House be not sit say , " please do not touch " , although I confess I have pull it out and it be very interesting to see — it say it be the gift of Jamaica . the editor of the Daily Mail be not call in . in 1901 he say that have a Member of Parliament criticise he outside of the House in the way he have be criticise in the House , he would have sue for libel . that be deem to be threaten , but he be not call in . perhaps my favourite case be from 1880 . it be a very interesting case . a certain Mr Plimsoll put out a leaflet to the elector of Westminster wherein he say that Sir Charles Russell , the Member of Parliament for Westminster , have use a parliamentary tactic to stop a vote on a Bill . some of we who come on Fridays — I be look to catch the eye of my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) — may think that use tactical effort to stop Bills be not such a bad thing altogether , but Mr Plimsoll take offence at it and put out a rude leaflet . this be bring to the attention of the House , and the House vote : " that , in the opinion of this House , the conduct of the honourable Member for Derby in publishing print placard denounce the part take by two honourable member of this House in the proceeding of the House be calculate to interfere with the due discharge of the duty of a Member of this House and be a breach of its Privileges : — but this House , have regard to the withdrawal by the honourable Member for Derby of the expression to which the honourable Member for Westminster have draw its attention , be of opinion that no further action on its part be necessary . " — [ Official Report , 20 February 1880 ; Vol . 250 , c . 1114 . ] I wonder whether hon . member have work out what the Bill be that Mr Plimsoll be bring forward , for which he have to apologise to the House — a precedent quote indirectly by this report , favourably . Mr Plimsoll be try to get a Bill through to put the Plimsoll line on ship to save hundred of life , and this House criticise he for breach of privilege . we should be very wary of stand on our dignity , because this House be the cockpit of freedom of speech . it be where democracy must run . when we try to silence people because they say thing that we do not like , we risk look ridiculous . I call the Chair of the Committee of Privileges . I thank the Leader of the House for table the motion , which arise out of the special report of the Privileges Committee . when it approve with an emphatic majority the report of our inquiry into Boris Johnson , the House make it clear beyond doubt that honesty in our Parliament matter , that minister be require to be truthful and that there will be consequence for any Minister who be not . the House be endorse the outcome of the Committee that it have mandate to undertake that inquiry . the present motion ask the House to give its approval to our special report , because we want to make sure , if the House ever again mandate the Privileges Committee to undertake an inquiry into a Member , that there will be member who be willing to serve on the Committee , and that the Committee and its process be protect while an inquiry be under way so that the Committee be able to undertake its work in the way that the House want . the motion make it clear that when a Privileges Committee inquiry be ongoing , member should not lobby , intimidate or attack the integrity of the Committee . they should not try to influence the outcome of the inquiry or undermine the standing of the Committee , because that undermine the proceeding of the House . no Member need to feel disempowere by this . on the contrary , member own the entire process . any Member can object to a Member be appoint to the Privileges Committee . any Member can speak and vote against any reference to the Privileges Committee or the term of any reference . any Member can give evidence to the Committee . any Member can debate and vote on the report of any inquiry . this be not a process impose on the House by the Privileges Committee . the opposite be the case : it be the House that impose this responsibility on the Privileges Committee . it be the House that choose the member of the Committee ; it be the House that decide on an inquiry and its term of reference ; and it be the House , by its Standing Orders and precedent , that lay down the process that will apply . our special report make it clear that it be not acceptable for Members , fear an outcome that they do not want , to level criticism at the Committee so that in the event that the conclusion be the one that they do not want , they will have undermine the inquiry ' s outcome by undermine confidence in the Committee . as the right hon . and learn Lady know from our exchange of letter in recent day , I be name in the annex to the report for a tweet that do not refer to the Committee . the context of the Twitter thread be clear . she talk about hon . member be able to give evidence to the Committee , but we have no prior notification that we might be name . I be alert to my presence in the report by the press . I just wonder how she consider that member like I might be able to seek redress in such circumstance . the hon . Gentleman name himself on Twitter by call the Committee a " witch hunt " , and that be in the public domain . the thread ahead of his tweet be quite clear , so we simply put it in our report . we take what be in the public domain and put it in our report . our special report make it clear that it be not acceptable for a Member of this House who do not want a particular outcome to seek , by pressure or lobbying , to influence the Committee ' s decision . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I fear that the right hon . and learn Lady may have just inadvertently mislead the House by suggest that I call the Committee a " witch hunt " . there be no reference to the Committee , and the four - part Twitter thread be quite clear that it be not in relation to the Committee or its investigation . I wonder how I might seek redress on this matter . I thank the hon . gentleman for that point of order . I do not know whether he be here at the beginning but , if he be and if he wish to speak later , he can catch my eye . he have already make his point , and I think the right hon . and learn Member be address that point . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . if the hon . member for Workington ( Mark Jenkinson ) be say that he do not believe the Privileges Committee ' s inquiry into Boris Johnson be a witch hunt , I warmly welcome the fact that he have say so . I thank he for put it on the record that he do not believe our inquiry be a witch hunt . do the right hon . and learn Lady not think it would have be courteous of the Committee to warn those list in the annex that they be go to be list ? if a mistake have be make , it would have give those people an opportunity to make their point before the Committee ' s report be publish . would that not have be fair ? the point and issue that we include in the annex to our report be put in the public domain on Twitter . indeed , the hon . Gentleman himself put into the public domain that , in relation to the Committee , there be a question of " malice and prejudice " . he feel it be important to put that on to the public record . will the right hon . and learn Lady give way ? I think the hon . Gentleman will be make a speech . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be totally — Order . I have not call the hon . gentleman to make a point of order . if the right hon . and learn Member do not want to give way , which be she right , it be detrimental to the debate if member who can not get their own way then make a point of order . but I be make a point of order . make your point of order . my point of order be that it be also discourteous to partly quote something , actually . and what it clearly — order . the hon . Gentleman must resume his seat . that be not a point of order . he be address it directly to the right hon . and learn Lady , not to I . no more of that , thank you . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . if the hon . member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) want to say that he do not believe the Committee be motivate by malice and prejudice , we would warmly welcome that correction . our special report make it clear that it be not acceptable for a Member of this House who do not want a particular outcome to seek , by pressure or lobbying , to influence the Committee ' s decision . the House , by support this motion tonight , will be make it clear that , in such an inquiry , the Committee ' s responsibility be to gather the evidence , and that it be the evidence that must prevail . that be the only basis on which a decision should be make . member must not try to wreck the process by press Committee member to resign . if member of the Committee be not prepared to undertake such inquiry , the House would have no protection from those who mislead it . I have nothing but admiration for my colleague on the Privileges Committee , particularly the Conservative Members . despite the pressure they be subject to , they be unflinche . they come to each of our more than 30 meeting and persist to the conclusion of the inquiry with a complete and total focus , which be a credit to the House . they gather the evidence , analyse it and base their decision on it , exactly in the way that the House require they to . that be then put to the House . by support this motion tonight , the House will be make it clear that when it appoint member to the Committee , those member will have the support of the House to carry out their work . they be do a worthy thing by serve on the Privileges Committee . I appreciate what a difficult job the Committee have — I fully respect that — and , of course , the original Chair do recuse himself from the inquiry . when the original report be put before the House , the right hon . and learn Lady state that she have receive assurance from the government that she would remain in that position , but she do not elaborate on that at the time . will she therefore use today as an opportunity to inform the House as to what assurance she have be give and by whom ? be the hon . Gentleman , in what he have say , withdraw what he say on Twitter , which be that the Committee be a " witch - hunt which would put a banana republic to shame " ? that be what he actually say . committee member be entitle to the support of the House , because it be the House that have ask they to undertake this work . as a former Leader of the House , and have both speak for and vote for the report by the Privileges Committee , which the House do commission , I be afraid that I do not accept the premise that the right hon . and learn Lady , for whom I have a great deal of time and respect , be put forward today , which be that the Committee , as a result of be ask by the House to look into the behaviour by one of its member , should therefore be absolutely immune from any form of free speech whatsoever . I can not agree with she on that basis and will not be support the Committee ' s report today . perhaps I may reiterate that we be not say that the Committee be immune . we be say that it be evident that any Member of the House can challenge the appointment to the Committee of any member of the Committee , which frequently happen ; that any Member of the House can challenge a reference to the Privileges Committee , and that , too , do happen ; and that member can challenge the term of reference to the Committee and raise concern about the procedure . but what member can not do be say that something be a witch hunt and a kangaroo court , and that there be collusion ; impugn the integrity of the individual member of the Committee ; and also undermine the standing of the Committee , because that be undermine the proceeding of the House . if hon . member be not sure what " impugn " mean , they can look at " Erskine May " , which go into it in great detail — I be sorry that the right hon . and learn Lady be be continually interrupt , but may I ask she for some clarity on the point she be make ? she have mention impugn the integrity of member of the Committee in part of the motion , with which I have considerable sympathy . I just want to understand this point . I do not suggest that this have happen here or at any time in the past , but she will recognise that it be conceivable that it would be right to impugn the integrity of a member of the Committee , or of more than one of its member , if there be evidence to do so . may I just be clear that what this motion should be take to mean be that someone should not impugn the integrity of member of the Committee while an inquiry be ongoing ? if there be evidence to do so later , there be mechanism by which we can do so . we should be clear , should we not , that what this motion mean be that while an inquiry be ongoing , it be wrong to impugn the integrity of any member of the Committee ? that be absolutely right , and that be so that the Committee can do its business properly , as mandate by the House , as be the case with the Standards Committee . we can not have a situation where member be reluctant to serve on the Committee because , as soon as they undertake an inquiry , it be open season on they . we can not have a situation where the outcome be base on pressure and lobbying , rather than the gathering and consideration of the evidence . the motion do not create any new category of contempt , nor do it extend what can be regard as contempt . it simply make it explicit that the focused , time - limit protection that the House have already make explicit for standard case be the same for privilege case . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that if the motion be not to go through , and it be to be open season on all future member of the Privileges Committee during inquiry , the only recourse for this House to ensure that it be not lie to in future would be to have an outside system to assess that , which would be constitutionally novel and — I think — highly dangerous ? my hon . friend make an extremely important point . if this work of the Privileges Committee be to be do in - house by member of this House , this House must support they in that work . if the House be not prepared to do that , and it be open season on Members who be put forward for the Committee , we would very quickly find ourselves with an independent , outside process . Most member of the House want we to keep the process in - house , but to do that we must all respect it . the right hon . and learn Lady talk about collusion and lobbying . can she explain how it be that Guardian reporter be brief before Privileges Committee report be publish for we in this place , and , if she know who have sight of those report , who be do the collusion with those journalist ? again , this be very unfortunate . I say to the hon . Lady that hon . member be give a task to do on behalf of the House . they do it to the good of their ability , with integrity , and they should be support in do that . although the hon . Lady be very much against the outcome , which come about on the basis of the evidence , it be not acceptable then to criticise the process , except through the channel and in the way that I have set out . our special report draw upon " Erskine May " . I invite hon . and right hon . member to read paragraph 15 . 14 and 15 . 16 of " Erskine May " , which make it crystal clear that it be not acceptable for a Member of this House to seek , by lobby or arouse public hostility , to influence the decision of member of the Committee , or to undermine the Committee ' s credibility and authority . all this be about protect the House from be mislead , by ensure that there be a strong and fair Committee that will , on behalf of the House , undertake an inquiry , and that there be member prepare to serve on the Committee and able to do that work without interference . we hear his name mention early , in respect of the previous report , but will the right hon . and learn Lady confirm that Sir Ernest Ryder be still in place for the preparation of this special report , that he agree with the finding of the Committee , and that he find that there be nothing improper about the work of the Committee in this report ? yes , Sir Ernest Ryder , who provide we with advice for the fifth report , which be the substantive report into Boris Johnson , also provide we with advice for this special report , for which we be grateful . we also have expert advice from the Clerks , include at the most senior level , so that we could be absolutely certain that we be comply with all the rule and process lay down by the House . the objective here be not to protect member of the Privileges Committee . it be even more important and fundamental than that . the objective be to protect this House and thereby to protect our democracy , so I commend this motion to the House . the motion before the House be proportionate : it seek only to provide the Privileges Committee , once it be establish and sit , with the same protection enjoy by the Standards Committee . that be all it do . all colleague respect the Standards Committee when it be sit . I hope that we can extend that respect to the Privileges Committee and that the motion be carry . I be strike by what the Leader of the House say in her speech . I write three or four speech for this afternoon ' s debate — some reflective , some angry and some defensive — but I have put they all aside . you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , the former Prime Minister , be a great friend of mine — one of my great friend in politic . I fight tooth and nail , with every fibre in my body , to keep she in no . 10 . I turn up whenever I be need , to do whatever need to be do , but we lose — that battle be lose . I see my hon . friend the Member for Altrincham and Sale West ( Sir Graham Brady ) , the chair of the 1922 committee , in the Chamber . very quickly , the late Dame Cheryl Gillan and I be thrust into be act chair of the 1922 committee , and we oversee the contest for the new leader of the party . the former Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Boris Johnson ) be successful ; I be one of five people , include my hon . friend the Member for Altrincham and Sale West , present when , de facto , he become leader of our party and , de facto , the follow day , Prime Minister . that be 24 July 2019 . that day , or shortly afterwards , I be in the Tea Room have supper with my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead , the former Prime Minister , when in bounce the then Secretary of State for Transport , my constituency neighbour , my right hon . friend the Member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Grant Shapps ) . he have be my political neighbour for 18 and a half year . sometimes we be the good of friend ; sometimes we be the good of enemy . when we fall out , we normally find an accommodation that allow we to become friend again . you may recall , Madam Deputy Speaker , that in 2018 , my right hon . friend the Member for Welwyn Hatfield be the first to call for the then Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead , to stand down . so when he bounce into the Tea Room , the day she cease to be Prime Minister , or a few day later , and sit down with his supper , I think , " oh my word . this be go to be pretty tasty " — not the supper , the conversation . I think there would be firework , because my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead , unencumbered by the office of Prime Minister , could really have a go at my right hon . friend the Member for Welwyn Hatfield , my next door neighbour in Hertfordshire . the former Prime Minister fix he with a steely eye and say , " now , Mr Shapps , I have a small station in my constituency that need some investment . what be you go to do for I ? " in this place , we be judge not by how we handle our success , but by how we cope with our disappointment . in that Tea Room exchange , I learn so much about character , courage , humility and dignity . to return to the motion , I hope that it be pass tonight . there be a lot of upset and grievance on the Government side of the House , but eventually we have to cast that to one side and move forward . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker — Madam Deputy Speaker , sorry . I think I get my pronoun mix up . I rise to support the motion before we today . I be glad that there be no amendment to it , because it be the motion that the Privileges Committee ask to be put before the House in its special report . it be very important that " this House note with approval the Special Report " . for we to do that will give we the good chance as a democratic House to put what have be an unprecedented period behind we . it be not usual , as we all know , for a Prime Minister to agree that a Privileges Committee report into what he say on the Floor of this House be send to the Privileges Committee , as happen in April 2022 , with the unanimous support of the House . it be not usual for a Privileges Committee report to involve such high stake as the one that the member of the Privileges Committee — many of they be sit here listen to this debate — have to cope with . we have never in my experience — I be not sure that it be even in the history book — have a Privileges Committee of any Parliament put in quite that position . it be therefore to the credit of this House — just while we be discuss semantic — I be refer to the interaction that we have on what " impugn " might mean — the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) mention the word , " with approval " . my interpretation of " with approval " be that every word in this motion be absolute and correct . I have to say that , have hear the evidence , on the first occasion that my hon . friend the Member for Workington ( Mark Jenkinson ) have be able to speak as part of this evidence , he raise doubt about what have be publish as supposedly come from he . be I get this wrong ? my interpretation of approval be that it be all absolutely correct . if that be the case , I be afraid that I have doubt on that front . I be sure the hon . Gentleman will do what he think be right — I think we can all guess what that will be — when we vote . I note that the way in which this House have traditionally work be that there be Standing Orders and there be Erskine May , but there be also unwritten assurance about how this House should behave when these issue be before it . certainly , the Leader of the House be correct to ask , rather philosophically , at the beginning of this debate what have change to cause the emergence of behaviour that I would not have expect to see when I first come into this House 31 year ago . I would not have expect to see people ' s integrity be impugn in quite the way that it have be while they be do duty that this House have unanimously ask they to do . but , of course , social medium do not exist when I first come into this House , and neither do GB News . before thing get any more heated , we need to stop and think about the consequence of allow the behaviour that we have see in the past few month , as the Privileges Committee have do its report , to continue . it be to the credit of this House that the Privileges Committee ' s original report — its fifth report — be debate and carry by such a majority . that put a line in the sand . it enable we to begin to rebuild the reputation of this House and to use the Privileges Committee to ensure that this House can police itself on the Floor in the Chamber and bring Ministers to account by insist that they tell the truth . the special report , again as the Leader of the House point out , be unprecedented , because people have never behave this way in the past when a Privileges Committee be attempt to carry out the duty that be give to it by a motion that be pass unanimously by the House . it be important , give that similar rule apply to the Committee on Standards , that , in what I hope will be the rare occasion in the future when the Privileges Committee may have to meet to do its job and be convene , it will be allow to do so . as I say to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , if we can not restore the respect that the Privileges Committee must have to do its job in future , we will have to create an outside body to do it . that would be a very profound constitutional change , with far great implication for the freedom of people to speak in this House than simply abide by decency , courtesy and proper rule when the Privileges Committee be meet . why on earth would outside individual want to serve on such a body , if they be to be subject to the kind of public abuse that we have see in this case ? that be the problem , and I think the special report have do we a service by bring it to the attention of this House . it be something we have to think about as we consider the motion . we have be live through febrile time . we have see two member of this House assassinate in the past few year while do their job . there be a lot of anger and controversy out there , wound up and heat up by the way social media work . I think everybody in this House , especially those who have be subject to some of those outside pressure — there will be many member of this House who have — need to think very carefully about how they conduct themselves and the kind of word they use . if there be no respect in this House for the Privileges Committee and the thing that we try to do to maintain good behaviour and decency in this House , there will be even less respect outside , and that will damage our ability to ensure that our democracy work properly , because without truth there be no democracy . although this look like quite a small report , it be a very significant one , and it be important that member on all side of the House , whatever faction they be in , consider seriously the implication of not vote for the motion tonight . I have to say that , now that a little of the heat have go out of the situation , I would have like to see the Members mention in the report have the good grace to stand up and apologise to the House for some of the language they have use , such as kangaroo court , marsupial and comment about " calibre , malice and prejudice " . the House vote for the member of the Committee to be task with a very difficult job . nobody in their right mind would want to find themselves in that position . it be not a nice way to spend parliamentary time — much less attend 30 meeting , under enormous stress and with the outside social medium pressure come in at they from all angle . as someone who stand against the leader of my party , I can tell hon . member that I have have some experience of how that work out . I have also have experience of how what one do in here can translate out there into threaten behaviour and difficulty — [ hon . member : " we all have ! " ] yes , and I say that early in my speech , if Conservative Members be listen . therefore , no matter how high the stake , it be extremely important that when member comment , they do so within the Standing Orders and the rule of this House , and that they save comment about witch - hunt , kangaroo court , malice and the rest of it for when the Committee have report . one unique thing about this House be that while a report be be compile and evidence be be collect , that Committee can not respond to what be be put to it in a 24 - hour news cycle . it must wait and let its report do the talking . I suspect that those member who try to blacken the name of those compile the report , and unleash that kind of process against they , know exactly what they be do and know exactly the pressure they be try to bring to bear . it be absolutely shameful that some member name in the report indulge in that kind of behaviour , include two ex - Cabinet Ministers , member of the Privy Council and an ex - Leader of the House — the right hon . member for North East Somerset — who know well , and who know that he know well than to behave in that way . when I come to this House , I never think that I would see such behaviour . it be to the great detriment of Conservative Members that we have see such behaviour . I ask they , one last time , to have the grace to get up during the debate and apologise to the House for the way in which they behave prior to the Privileges Committee publish its report , and give we an assurance that they will not do it again . I have find the debate thus far more than interesting for a number of reason . a great deal have be say and comment upon in term of parliamentary procedure and respect for one another , both of which I absolutely support , but also in term of some of the selective quote in the report , which have be echo today , and how they be ascribe to certain member who have be name in the report . some of it have be take out of context , and I will reflect on that point . I do not think that it be healthy for this wonderful Parliament to end up make generalised assumption and assertion about individual base on the annex to the report . that be why I want to speak today . clearly , I be name in the annex and reference in paragraph 14 . as someone who have have claim make about their action in the report , and who have be name and have judgment pass on their conduct both by the Committee and so far in the debate — totally inaccurate judgment , if I may say so — I think it be right that I get , at least , a right of reply . I be incredibly respectful of process , not just because I have serve in Government , but because be a parliamentarian be the great honour we all have , and uphold our tradition , our democracy and parliamentary standard be absolutely right . however , although I appreciate that right hon . and hon . member may disagree with I , include the Chair of the Committee , who be entitle to do so , I feel that the assertion and claim make in this special report be wrong and can not be substantiate by the so - call evidence that have be produce and publish . do my right hon . friend collude in any way with any of the person list in the report , or with anyone else , to place pressure on the Committee ? that come back to the evidence and the point that I be about to make . the answer be : absolutely not . I just do not think it appropriate that , unless the evidence be provide and publish , there be an absence of process by the Committee . I do not know if the annex be an exhaustive list of member of this House — the Chair of the Committee be very welcome to respond to my comment — but it seem quite selective and exclusive . that be why it be important to have this debate and discussion . on 16 March 2023 , during an interview on GB News , the right hon . Lady say : " the lack of accountability … I think there be a culture of collusion quite frankly involve here . " can I have some evidence of that please ? I will come to that particular quote , so the hon . Gentleman will hear what I have to say then . I come back to my point on whether the annex be conclusive . should other individual in the House have be include in it ? on what basis be decision make ? at the outset I put it clearly on the record that it be wrong of member to seek to place undue and improper pressure on any member investigate matter at a Committee level . there be process in place , and it be right that they should be respect . I believe that there be a case for look at how the process of this Committee can be clarify , and how the member of that Committee and the person who be subject to inquiry be protect . from my experience of the handling of all this , I can say that to be name in a report have have no notification — no correspondence or anything of that nature — that I be be investigate for prior conduct — indicate dissent . the shadow Leader of the House shake her head , but I just do not think that that be acceptable . we have hear great speech on have respect for one another , and I agree completely . we must treat each other with civility : if we intend to name another Member in the Chamber , we let they know beforehand . that be an important part of the process . we have hear about lobbying and collusion . as one who have serve in government , as Home Secretary , I have be involve in all sort of quasi - judicial policy and decision making on high - profile and complex issue , day in , day out , much of which be the subject of quite active lobbying by Opposition Members . we live in a democracy , and we should be able to have these discussion . all Ministers know that orchestrated campaign and lobbying be absolutely day - to - day thing that go on ; that be part of a democracy — the value and safeguard of free speech and freedom of expression . a democracy recognise the value and the importance of challenge and question process and decision making . that be one reason why we be all here as elect member of Parliament : we do this on behalf of our country and our constituent , and because we have a democratic responsibility to do it . in do that , we raise uncomfortable question all the time . that be what we do , day in , day out . to silence and cancel out the comment and voice of individual carry great risk , and I be very worried about that . it cause I grave concern . that be why the decision on the motion must be take carefully . the right hon . Lady be make a good case that we need to treat each other with respect . be claim that a Committee have be involve in collusion , as she do on GB News , part of that respect ? indicate dissent . well , it be what be write here . do the right hon . Lady deny that she say it ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . it be important that there be due process , and it seem to I that the report do not deliver the guidance and the process that would be helpful to the House when deal with matter that have be consider by the Privileges Committee . that be because the report be not concerned with establish or recommend new process and protection , and we should not sit here pretend that it be . this report have be use by the Committee to criticise and censure individual . the House should reflect on that in the light of my comment . the House will set , in my view , a dangerous precedent if it approve a report that censure and pass judgment on Members of the House without grant due process — fair due process , I should add — to the Members it make allegation about . my right hon . friend know that I be a member of the Committee . along with every other member of the Committee , I be clear that there be no censure in the report . will she clarify what she mean by censure ? that be certainly not what the Committee intend . by that , I mean cancel out view and opinion . that be totally different — indicate dissent . would the hon . Lady like to intervene ? she be very welcome to . she have speak . with respect , she also ask for civility in the Chamber and in the way in which we engage with one another . everyone have strong opinion and , with that , it be right and respectful that we listen to each other . rise — will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will give way to my hon . friend first and then I will come to the hon . Lady . I think every member of the Committee firmly believe that every Member of Parliament have the right to share their opinion in this House , but the 2019 House of Commons code for Members be very clear : member must not lobby the Committee , or the Commissioner in a manner calculate to influence their consideration of issue relate to conduct . the current Members ' code of conduct do not mention that the Privileges Committee should be include in that . this report suggest that that should be amend so that member serve on the Privileges Committee be also afford those right . I do not want any Member of Parliament to be prevent from say what they believe once a report be publish , but not during the process of produce a report . with respect , I have hear what my hon . friend have have to say , but if he have listen to what I have have to say , he would know that I be worried that this will set a dangerous precedent . I be go to make a very similar point to the one that the hon . member for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) have just make . do the right hon . Member agree that this be not about criticise a report once it be publish ? it be about not try to nobble it while it be go on . with all respect to the hon . Lady , in her remark today , she use a range of phrase , which she scatter - gun around the Chamber , in an accusatory way about what individual have say or may not have say . she can not apply that to all of we , so I think she should have be careful in some of the phrase that she use . if I may , I will comment far about my concern with the process . my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby ( Lia Nici ) touch on an important point , about which Mr Speaker be also very clear — he be a strong proponent of the concept that important matter should come to the House first , before they be publish in the medium . as she point out regard the publication of Committee report , paragraph 15 . 10 and 38 . 56 of " Erskine May " refer to the premature publication and disclosure of Committee proceeding as be in contempt . cakeism be a phrase that have already be use this afternoon by my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) . we can not have it both way . I recognise the Committee ' s frustration that the report be leak , and I know that comment have be make when the Government do not come to the House before announce thing in the medium . however , we have to be concern that detail contain in the special report be publish by a particular newspaper at 7 . 20 pm on Wednesday 28 June , some 13 hour and 40 minute before the special report be publish , and before people name in its annex be inform . frankly , give how this have all be conduct — individual be not contact in advance and there be no right of reply — be the House not concerned that that newspaper , the Guardian , know of the report ' s content before the rest of we do ? surely that should be a matter for investigation as well . if the Committee be so concerned with case of contempt of the House , investigate how the report or its content be leak to the Guardian before it be publish be something else that should feature in due process . would any member of the Committee or its Chair like to explain why that newspaper know in advance , before the rest of we ? what action be go to be take ? we have already hear talk about restore parliamentary democracy and integrity to Parliament . again , that would give confidence to member that due process be be follow , but it would also give confidence to the public , who also expect standard across the board to be uphold . we have a report from the Committee that name member and peer , but it do not inform we in advance . we have discuss already the House ' s rule on behaviour and courtesy . I personally think that member should be give notice ; that be respectful . during my time serve on the Front Bench , or on the Back Benches , as I be now , I hope that I have never offend a Member of this House by be so discourteous as to name they without inform they in advance . that be a good standard that we should all live up to . not only have there be a lack of courtesy show to member name in the report , but the absence of due process concern I a lot . until this be publish , I and colleague have no idea that we be be investigate , or that there be reference to we as individual in the annex in relation to the inquiry into Mr Johnson . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I do not see the Member appear at the start , but I will give way . I have be here for all of the right hon . Lady ' s speech and , over the 14 minute of it , , I have be desperately hope she be go to get to the point she really want to raise . she do not disagree that she say the thing that be in the report , but she think it be discourteous that she be not tell in advance . she think other people may have say thing that be miss out of the report . what be actually the main point of what , over the last 14 minute , she have be say ? if the hon . Gentleman have the courtesy of listening , the point be actually due process . as he would know , if he have listen to my opening remark , I also say that I be sure not everyone here would agree with what I be about to say , but afford the courtesy of debate in this House be exactly why we be here . if he do not want to hear what I be say , he might actually want to leave the Chamber , rather than carry on in this way . it be important in the debate to have a right of reply . again , I appreciate that he and other Members will disagree with this , but I think it be right that the basic should be put on the public record . the country be watch . well , some of the country be watch , if they be not watch Wimbledon right now , but this be an insight into how we engage in our business , and what right of reply member do or do not have . quite frankly , this will affect all member ; it be not just about support those today , because there will be other in the future and that be important . some of the language that have be use be important as well . I personally think that it simply can not be right or fair for a Committee to make claim or assertion without give notice in advance , or the chance to at least respond to allegation . I be go to go as far as to say , if I may , that I find some of this deeply secretive and I just do not think that Select Committees operate in this way ; they really do not . I have have the great privilege of serve on a number of Select Committees and I think the way in which we conduct ourselves be very important . I notice that the Leader of the House say that this be deeply unusual . it be all deeply unusual , and not just because of a lack of process . my office , support by the House of Commons Library , undertake some research to see if there be any precedent for mp be name , and effectively or potentially sanction or censure in a report by a Committee . [ interruption . ] no , I be give an example . I hear what the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) say , but I be just give an example — colleague might learn something from this , too . even the Library say that it could not think of any Committee on Standards , Privileges Committee , or former Committees on Standards recommend anything of this nature without the opportunity for those name to make their case . today be a chance at least to give that a bit of an airing and to make the case as well . I will conclude my remark . again , in the light of what I have say thus far , there be so many issue here that I think will have wide implication for Parliament , if I may say so , and for Members of Parliament . I have touch on process . the evidence issue — the lack of evidence that the Committee have present — have be touch on as well . paragraph 14 make serious allegation that I and other Members be part of a co - ordinate campaign of interfere with the work of the Privileges Committee , so one would expect those claim to be back up with some serious volume of evidence , but they be not . while the Committee may obviously disagree with member , the fact that people can now freely express view about the inquiry be obviously part of live in a healthy democracy , with free speech and freedom of expression . however , the Committee have not explain in this report how the expression of an opinion or a view that some people share could in itself undermine the work of the Committee or could be co - ordinated . the hon . member for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Allan Dorans ) , a member of the Committee , touch on my remark quote in the annex . those remark come from an interview on Budget day that cover a range of issue : the economy , taxation , the Budget , migration — lively issue that I think all member in the House like to discuss . we also discuss Mr Johnson , and the activity of a Mrs Sue Gray and the Leader of the Opposition . it be not at all clear from the Committee ' s report why it believe that a reference , in a lengthy interview cover multiple issue , to question over transparency and accountability constitute interference in its work , could be disturbing , or could be part of a co - ordinate campaign . those be area on which we should get clarity . so far , the suggestion have be one - way ; we have be tell that we should go to the Committee if there be issue , but the Committee could have raise any issue with we . the Committee could have do that if it have any concern about comment I make . I be not someone who hide behind the sofa in Parliament ; many colleague will recognise that . I would welcome lively engagement , as I be sure other member reference in the annex would have do . I certainly would have welcome the Committee contact and engage with I in good time . that be quite important . frankly , I think the public will still reach their own conclusion about all this . I appreciate that I have detain the House for a lengthy period — I thank hon . member for listening — but give the tone of the accusation make , the content of the annex , and the lack of a prior opportunity to respond , it be important that we have this discussion and that colleague listen . I hope that the Committee will reflect on comment make about process . I really do not think that there be evidence to substantiate the claim that have be make and , if the motion be agree to , there will be the ongoing matter for the House of what that mean for mps . I might be boring for Britain right now , but I believe in transparency , accountability and due process , particularly have sit on the Front Bench ; today we have also hear about hold Ministers to account . I believe in all that . Woe betide the Minister who mislead Parliament . sometimes there be not enough scrutiny of the detail of what minister say , and not enough challenge . that be why it be important that we have this debate about accountability , transparency , due process , and sometimes correct the record . I believe , as do other hon . and right hon . member , in transparency , freedom of speech and member face fair and due process when allegation be make about their action . that should be deal with properly . I urge member to think about the impact that the report will have on our parliamentary democracy and our freedom . I fundamentally believe that , without freedom of speech , there can be no democracy ; it be something that we have to preserve , stand up for and respect in this House . the initial Privileges Committee investigation into the former Prime Minister , the then Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip , have set a clear and fundamental precedent . if a Prime Minister deliberately mislead this House and , by extension , the public , there will be consequence . I put on record my thank to the hon . and right hon . member who serve on the Privileges Committee . consider the weighty matter of whether a former Prime Minister mislead the House be clearly a significant task , and it be regrettable that , as the report outline , the action of some hon . and right hon . member make the task hard for member serve on the Committee . as we have hear , that be not without personal consequence for those member . as the Leader of the House point out in her opening remark , there be way and mean of raise issue of privilege . we should remember that the investigation have its genesis in a motion that be pass in this House without Division ; not a single member name in the report vote against the motion . not only be the Committee cross party , but it have a conservative majority . it be worth point out that there be no liberal Democrat on the Committee , but I accept as an individual MP that the current process involve a cross - party group of MPs , and they be trust by this House to investigate with impartiality and to make their finding available for consideration by the House . those recommendation be then to be approve or reject by this House . have Boris Johnson be suspend from Parliament for more than 10 day and choose to remain an MP , it would have be up to the people of Uxbridge to determine whether they want to re - elect he as their MP . member from all part of the House must make it clear that we will not tolerate attempt to undermine or attack the vitally important work of this Committee . we be promise integrity , accountability and professionalism at all level of government , and I have to note , like the shadow Leader of the House , the hon . member for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) , the current Prime Minister ' s steadfast refusal to declare where he stand on this issue , let alone to engage with the substantive content of this report and the previous one . that be an abdication of his duty not only as Prime Minister but as an individual MP . it be unfortunate . the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) say she be pleased that the report be not amend , but there be a sign of weakness from the Government , where they have say " no , thank you " to the offer in the Privileges Committee ' s report . it state : " it will be for the House to consider what further action , if any , to take in respect of member of the House refer to in this special report . " I would go as far as to suggest that have the Government take the opportunity to make some process clear follow today ' s report , they might have see off some of the accusation of lack of due process that we have hear today from member name in the report and those support they . today should have serve as an opportunity to set another precedent and to make it clear that there be consequence for those who seek to obstruct the important work of a cross - party , independent Committee . it be a shame that the Government have not do so . that be why I table my amendment . I accept that my amendment have not be select , but the clear route forward would have be for the Committee to consider whether contempt have be commit and to return a verdict and , if necessary , a sanction . as the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) say , that could have give she an opportunity to make her case in relation to what have be report . the same process be use for the Committee ' s report into the former Prime Minister , Mr Johnson . I also point out that today ' s debate do not shut the window on that opportunity . the Government could bring forward such a motion if they wish at any future point ; they could bring it forward tomorrow , and I hope they do so . this place be still suffer from the Owen Paterson decision , because that be the point where the convention of this House to accept Privileges Committee and Standards Committee report on the nod be break by the Government . now be the time for a reset . I call the Chair of the Procedure Committee . I rise to speak in my capacity as Chair of the Procedure Committee . I have to start by apologise to my Clerk , who write a detailed technical note about the procedure involve in this motion . all the technical point that my Clerk make have be make already , so I will not detain the House with they , but I thank she for the work she do . instead , I will make some general point about what we do in this place and how I hope we might be able to start behave in a slightly different way . I will start by refer to the point about Committees . we can not cover every issue on the Floor of this House , and that be why we depute member to serve on Committees , whether Select Committees , House Committees such as the Procedure Committee , or Bill Committees . we ask those member to spend their time — they do take up significant amount of their time — scrutinise legislation and look at issue that have be raise with they . the member of the Standards and Privileges Committees have the most difficult job of effectively have to police the behaviour of their own colleague . they have personal reason often for not wish to be part of that , but they do it because this House have ask they to do it . we should always remember that point : they be serve because the House have ask they to serve ; they be not serve through choice , and they be do a difficult job . I will come on to the point that the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) make about police ourselves , because there be a real danger if we do not take this matter seriously . when it come to Select Committees that report , there be absolutely nothing to stop any Member from criticise a report once it have be publish . in fact , government usually criticise such report substantially in their response . Select Committees expect their report to be scrutinise and examine , and they expect criticism of they — that be the very nature of our parliamentary debate and democracy . nobody be say that , once a report have be publish , member can not criticise it . the important point be that there be way in which we can interact with Committees while they be do their work . those be set out clearly in the report . the substantive part of the motion , paragraph ( b ) — that the Committee should have the same protection as the Standards Committee — be uncontroversial . what have become clear be that the way in which member feel they have be impugn without a say , which make paragraph ( a ) of the motion controversial . it might be good if the Leader of the House be to withdraw the motion and re - table it with just paragraph ( b ) . we might then avoid the argument and Division that we be go to have . I serve with my right hon . friend in the Whips Office and have enormous respect for he . the Committee propose the motion . we ask the Committee to do its work , and it propose the motion . there be nothing unparliamentary about what it have put forward and there be nothing that be not procedurally accurate in what it have do . I for one will back my colleague , because I would ask they to back I on a motion about a report that I have put forward as a Select Committee Chair , and I would hope that they would do so . as someone who have the privilege of serve on my right hon . friend ' s Procedure Committee , may I ask she whether she can recall a single occasion when the Procedure Committee have produce a report name individual without give those individual the opportunity first to present evidence ? be it not the problem that we have a report base not on evidence but on stuff that have be tweet ? as somebody who do not do tweet , I be ever more grateful that I do not . my hon . friend be a very assiduous member of the Procedure Committee . he be right that we would report evidence for an inquiry only if it have be give to we by a Member in good faith and they know it be go to be report , but in this case we be not talk about that ; we be talk about evidence produce in the report that be in the public domain . it have not be gather in any other way . of course , the motion be not the report ; it be about give the member of the Privileges Committee the same protection as member of the Standards Committee . it be difficult to argue against that . rise — I will give way one further time and then continue to make my point . I agree with the substantive point about the Privileges Committee be give the same protection as the Standards Committee , but you refer to evidence in the report , and I have be quite clear that that " evidence " be take out of context in some case — not least mine . my hon . friend will have the opportunity to make that point during the debate . I would also pick he up on have make a slight technical error in what he say . he say " you " , which refer to Madam Deputy Speaker . I suggest that when we make an inadvertent technical error around our procedure , the most appropriate thing to do at that stage be to apologise and move on . that be the point here . thing have be say by some in the public domain that could have constitute criticism and an attempt to influence the Committee , and that be not allow in our procedure . there be way in which Committees can be approach . my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) — my next - door neighbour — do exactly that on 22 July last year , when he table an early - day motion , sign by four other member , in which he criticise the Committee and what it be do . that be perfectly parliamentary . he be able to do that and do nothing wrong in table that early - day motion . we can not start on the slope of allow member to try to influence all sort of Committees , be that the Procedure Committee , the Work and Pensions Committee , the Committee on Standards in Public Life or whatever . we have our procedure in place to enable member to interact with Committees . they can make representation to Committees , they can vote on the membership of Committees , and they can vote on the motion and the term of reference . that be all available , and then , when the report be publish , they can say whatever they wish about that , because it be in the public domain . that be the technical difference . rise — I will allow one further intervention . I do say only one early , but I will allow my hon . friend . my right hon . friend , with her expertise on the Procedure Committee , clearly have much more experience in procedure than I do . could she help I ? the Privileges Committee have produce interim information on how it be to proceed with the difficult task it have be give . there will be member who wish to agree with that process and those who wish perhaps to agree with and criticise the process . she suggest that a member could table an early - day motion . be there other way in which that can be do in Parliament ? most specifically , be she suggest that the Committee can not be criticise outside Parliament on Twitter and on social medium ? what I be say be that , as right hon . and hon . member we have a duty to protect and work with our friend who be do this difficult work . there be many way in which member can interact with a Committee as it carry out such work : they can make representation ; they can probably raise point of order on the Floor of the House ; they can table early - day motion and all manner of other motion — and they be parliamentary way . they be not through the general medium or Twitter or other way . rise — I will give way a final time . just to clarify , be my right hon . friend say that if ask in general by perhaps a journalist for one ' s opinion on such thing , one should not give an opinion because one should leave it to the parliamentary process ? yes , absolutely — that be exactly the point . the Standards Committee and the Privileges Committee in particular have specific provision in " Erskine May " , and the member of those Committees can not answer back — they have no right to do so — so until a Committee have report , it be not parliamentary to make such comment . I gently say that if this happen inadvertently because member do not know — this be a very technical point — I be sure that an apology , say just that there be no intention to influence the Committee , would be appreciate . I turn to my final point , which , actually , the hon . member for Wallasey start to make , which be about police ourselves . I would very much like we to get back to have motion on House business go through on the nod . the moment we start to whip House business put we on a very slippery slope , because the House will make decision and the House need to support member . I hope that we can go back to those thing go through on the nod , with we trust our colleague to police we . we do not do thing well when it come to our expense . we police our own expense , and look at what happen as a result of that . I strongly suggest that nobody in the House want we to get to a position where an outside body , third party and non - Members start to police we . if we want to continue police ourselves , we need to have faith in the system we have , and we need to support those right hon . and hon . member who be do their very good to do their job . the Privileges Committee have have an important duty to fulfil . I want to put on the record my thank to it for the work it have do , and in particular to its Chair , who have be a lightning rod for criticism . I also want to mention the conservative member of the Committee who , in addition to the public questioning of their credential , have have to withstand some internal party pressure , which we have read about in the report . I understand how difficult it be to go against a colleague in any situation , never mind a former leader . it be to their credit that they have stand firm against that pressure . their wide duty to the democratic process have prevail . we should all bear in mind that whichever party be in power , if there be no consequence for mislead Parliament , we might as well all pack up and go home . the motion , as we know , be not about that former member ; it be about undermine the Committee and its work . give the seriousness of the allegation , which appear to be beyond doubt — they be a matter of public record — this really ought to be a watershed moment about how we conduct ourselves not just inside the Chamber but outside it as well . we be not commentator or bystander in the political process ; we be part of the glue that hold our democracy together , and when we pick away at the thread that tie our system together , we need to be careful that we do not unravel the whole thing . the hon . Gentleman seem to be say that Members of Parliament directly elect by our constituent have few right to comment on social medium and outside this House than ordinary member of the public and the press . that be not at all what I be say . it be clear that people have have plenty to say on this report today . we do not comment on report of other Committees of the House until they be finalise , which be absolutely correct and proper . there be very good reason , which we have hear today , why we should continue to do that . the fact that we be still have this debate show that Conservative Members do not understand why we have to show some restraint when deal with sensitive internal matter . there be no shortage of people out there who will call we out for be motivate solely by party politic . by our very nature we be political animal , but on occasion we need to move beyond that , remember the wide public interest and show that standard in public life matter . when it come to our duty to our constituent and to the country , we should be the leader ; we should not be follow other . let we imagine that if every time a constituent receive a parking fine or have to go to court for some reason , they decide to challenge the integrity of the court or the body issue that fine . nothing would ever be decide , would it ? the reason that do not happen in a mature democracy be that nothing would ever work . what kind of message would we send as parliamentarian if we do not trust a body that be set up by Parliament itself to deal with such an important matter ? we would give the green light to chaos . it be not that those who have question the Committee ' s integrity have not avail themselves of the opportunity to do something about it . we have hear plenty of time already that there be plenty of opportunity to object to its competence . member do not do that because , deep down , they know that anyone place on that Committee deserve the trust and the confidence of the rest of this place to do their job . give the conservative majority on the panel , it would have be absurd for people to have object to its composition anyway . that be what make the claim that it be a kangaroo court look even more desperate and damaging . we need confidence in our colleague that they will do their duty beyond the day - to - day hustle and bustle of party politic , because that be how politic will survive in this country . we in this place be custodian of democracy . how we act , what we say and what be deem acceptable all matter , because they become the norm for the generation to follow . if we be not careful , the standard and behaviour that a healthy Parliament should have will be lose and , before we know it , we will be in a dark place indeed . give the hon . member ' s point about how we in this House be custodian , do he agree that a report of this nature should at least provide some evidence when it make a statement such as " the most disturbing example of the co - ordinate campaign " ? as far as I can see , there be absolutely no evidence whatsoever to support that statement . if you be custodian of the House — Order . the hon . Gentleman know , as happen previously with the hon . member for Workington ( Mark Jenkinson ) , that he must not address other member directly . " you " mean I — okay ? there be evidence — it be in the annexe . it be pretty clear that there be a co - ordinate campaign from a conservative organisation to lobby Committee member . if people be insist that what be there in black and white be not what happen , we be in a very strange place indeed . we will not survive if that be how we carry on . our democracy be fragile and need to be protect . it can not be take for grant . it have to be cherish , support and nurture . we be its current guardian . sometimes , we have to accept that we have say thing that we should not have say , and we have to apologise and move on . we have to accept that say the right thing be not always easy . sometimes , " sorry " be the hard word to say . sometimes , we have to accept that someone on our own side may not have meet the standard that we would expect everyone to adhere to . no one should be big than democracy — no individual , no Government . this place should be a force for good . it should be here to tackle injustice in all their form . when there be an assault on the rule that govern this place — as we have see in this report — to suit a short - term political agenda , we will all pay a much harsh price in the long term . this all about leadership . we be all require to be leader . our parliamentary system have rely on people behave with honour and accord to respected convention . when a strand of political thinking do not respect the rule and do not think that constitutional road block be anything other than something to be drive around , the weakness in our current system become all too apparent . over time , democracy will be erode until we end up in a place where no authority be respect , no rule matter and nobody believe anything we say any more . it will not have escape Members ' notice that deepfake video be become more commonplace . we face a huge challenge as a Parliament and a country to maintain trust in the face of that and the cesspit of social medium . we need to put in the hard yard to ensure that people can believe the word that come out of our mouth — that they be ours , and true to our value and principle — and that honour still matter in this place . attack the institution that uphold the veracity of what be say in here be cause an additional problem that we could do without . by God , we have enough challenge as a country without make it hard for ourselves by attack each other over what we believe be a question of integrity . we can do well . we can disagree without be disagreeable . Parliament should be the beacon of fair play , and an example for other both in this country and abroad of how democracy can work , how it can be a good thing and how it can change life for the well . despite our difference , we be not always so bind up in our own tribal dispute that we can not agree what the truth be and , most importantly , that the truth always matter . it be a privilege to speak in this debate . I will try not to take too long or to repeat thing that have already be say . it be a great shame that the debate on the Privileges Committee ' s fifth report , on Boris Johnson , become largely a debate about the integrity and standing of the Committee itself , rather than just the behaviour of Boris Johnson , which be the subject of the report . I can understand why many member see it as such , but it be important to establish in this debate that it be possible and legitimate to be in disagreement with some of the Committee ' s conclusion , yet still respect and uphold the Committee ' s authority and integrity . I say that because that be exactly the position I take in relation to that report . it must be legitimate to do that if the position be — as it be — that the Committee make recommendation to the whole House , and the whole House then decide whether to accept they . the report that we be debate today be entirely about the Privileges Committee ' s authority and integrity , and about how that should be uphold . just as criticism of the Committee ' s conclusion can be perfectly legitimate , and just as it be not right to say that any criticism of it be an attack on its authority , so it be not right to say that all attack on the Committee must be allowable as exercise of free speech . we recognise , do we not , that free speech be sometimes properly restrict in the interest of broad freedom ? that be exactly what we be consider here . the Committee ' s special report make the strong point that there be legitimate opportunity for member to oppose a referral of a matter to the Committee in the first place — as have be observe , in the case of Boris Johnson nobody do , not even Boris Johnson . the Committee be also right to say that criticism of its conclusion be perfectly valid , as be a decision not to support those conclusion . what be not valid be to attack or to seek to influence or undermine a Committee that this House have charge with an inquiry while that inquiry be ongoing . my right hon . and learn Friend allow I to make a point that I have just consider as we have be debate . if this be a criminal trial , it would be sub judice and Members of Parliament would not be allow to comment on it . perhaps we should think of the Committee as something analogous to that — a quasi - judicial progress in which member can complete their work without influence from other member , while proper process be still available for member to make representation . yes , I understand entirely the point my right hon . friend make . but there be , of course , significant difference between the work do by the Committee and the work of a court . it come back to the speech by my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , which I enjoy too much to interrupt . it seem to I that the point he be make about Lord Hoffmann also bear some scrutiny in this respect . court be decision - make body . the Privileges Committee be not a decision - make body . the House of Commons as a whole be the decision - make body . there be therefore a difference between the way the Privileges Committee operate and the way in which a court operate . where I do agree with my right hon . friend be that it be important to the integrity of the Committee ' s investigation that Members of this House , have delegate authority to that Committee to do the work , do not seek to derail it while it happen . that do not mean that they be not entitle to criticise any conclusion that the Committee may reach , and nor be it inappropriate , as I have do myself , for a Member not to agree with the conclusion the Committee have reach . my right hon . and learn Friend be make a very interesting point . do he not therefore think that there be some form of contempt when person who have sight of the report and decide , before the report come to this House and be publish , to leak it to a Guardian reporter ? I certainly do not think that material of that kind should be leak to newspaper before it be discuss in this House . I have no knowledge of the fact of who do what , but I agree with my hon . friend that there should be no leaking of that kind . we can only , in the context of this debate , discuss the motion before we . if for nothing other than novelty ' s sake , perhaps I should speak a little bit about the motion . the Committee make a good argument that , give there be little material difference , either in process or in the potential consequence for a Member be investigate , between privilege case on one hand and standard case on the other , the protection that this House give to the Privileges Committee and the Standards Committee in the exercise of their duty should be the same . that be a good point , but I think it be also worth note that the motion do not quite achieve that equality . for standard matter , as be quote in the special report , the code of conduct state that there must be no lobbying of member of the Committee . there be no mention in the code of conduct in that regard of intimidation , or of impugn the integrity of the Committee , as there be in this motion . two question surely arise . first , should those additional consideration of intimidation and impugn the integrity of the Committee be include ? secondly , if so , should they not be include in relation to standard matter also ? on the first , it should not really be necessary to say that intimidation be unacceptable , but it surely can not be wrong to say it , so I completely support its inclusion in the motion . as for impugn the integrity of the Committee , as I mention in an intervention on the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , it must be a possibility that the integrity of a future Committee — not , of course , this Committee or any previous Committee — could be impugn . the Committee can not be invulnerable to challenge and criticism , if that criticism be merit . but be that to be the case , as member of this House we have the right to raise our concern in debate about the Committee ' s recommendation and about any allegation about another Member ' s integrity . member of the Privileges Committee , or not , may well raise themselves the sort of standard and privilege matter that should be the subject of separate investigation . with that clarity that the impugning of the Committee ' s integrity , if any , be not appropriate while an inquiry be under way , again that seem to I a sensible inclusion . on the second question , the position should surely be equivalent for standard and privilege . although I fully subscribe to the view , express by many , that we really need to move on from this , I be afraid that on another day we will probably at least have to return to the question of whether we need to improve the language on the protection we offer to the Standards Committee , so that it can match this motion , which I hope the House will pass this evening . as other have say , I hope it will pass without a vote , but if it do not , I shall vote in favour of it . I welcome the opportunity to finally put forward my case . Magna Carta be issue in June 1215 , and be the first document to limit power and formalise the concept that no authority , not even the King , be above the law . it seek to limit the abuse of royal prerogative and birth an idea , which through the long arc of human history , lead to the principle and fact of equality under the law . far , it lead to the long - stand right that every member of this House would be able to speak without fear or favour . my great ancestor William Marshal , the Earl of Pembroke , who serve five monarch and save we from the French in the battle of Lincoln , be present at the signing of the great charter and then reissue it in its own name . his statue clutch the great Magna Carta be in the House of Lords look down on the throne and the Chamber , and , I would imagine , keep an eye on the monarch and proceeding . I say that because from this House and from this nation have flow an example of parliamentary authority through the people ; democratic law making , and just and reasonable power . my deep concern be that the Committee may not have follow the example of just or reasonable power , and that it have , I believe , in my opinion , take three role as judge , jury and executioner . in its own way , the Committee ' s approach have prompt just and reasonable question . why be the Committee try to limit the speech of member of this House ? why be we , the name mps , not give the opportunity to defend ourselves before the publication of the report ? I believe that the answer to those question point to the fact that the Committee overstep the remit give to it by this place to the detriment of democracy and the dialogue that flow from it . furthermore , we must ask why , if this House be now police the speech of hon . member , have the House not take action previously ? why be no action take when the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) say , " why aren ' t we lynch the bitch ? " in reference to my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) ? the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , someone who aspire to be the Deputy Prime Minister of our great country and be a Privy Counsellor , say in public that Conservatives be scum and no action be take by the House . then compare that to my tweet , in which I say in reference to the former Member for Uxbridge : " I hope to see he fully exonerated and to put an end to this kangaroo court . " do the hon . Lady agree , on reflection , that to make such a statement , post on Twitter on 21 March — " I hope to see he fully exonerated and to put an end to this kangaroo court . " — during a formal live investigation , order unanimously by this House , be at least disrespectful to the member of the Privileges Committee and potentially a contempt of this House , on whose behalf the inquiry be be conduct ? before the hon . Lady answer , I presume she do notify — indicate assent . thank you . I thank the hon . member for his prepared question . I believe in freedom of speech . my tweet clearly show the overreach of the Committee . this be an argument for the right to free speech hold not just by member of this House , but as an ancient right of every citizen of this democracy . the action of the Committee could mark a dangerous precedent , a slippery slope . be we , as mps , to be sanction for voice an opinion on the work of Members ' committee or the outcome of this place ? if so , colleague may want to consider how they vote today and what precedent they set , because they may be next . surely an MP ' s job be not only to represent their constituent but to speak truth to power , however uncomfortable that truth may be . so , member across the House , let we look at some fact , shall we ? my crime be that I write a tweet in March express an opinion . I have not personally criticise or even speak with any member of the Committee , or incite any action to be take against they . I have merely rely on my right as a Member of this House , which may go against the popular opinion hold in this place . democracy be dialogue , make rich by a range of opinion , view and value . six colleague and I be name in the second report . as have be mention , that be not authorise by Parliament . no evidence be hear from we . the Committee make factual error . the Conservative Democratic Organisation do not own the Conservative Post ; they be two entirely separate organisation . the Committee also lambast three member of the House of Lords and the press , the Conservative Post , demonstrate constitutional overreach . it grossly over - interpret what " intimidate " mean . how can one tweet , in which I do not refer to any member of the Committee personally , be consider intimidation ? the Committee denounce my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) for merely say that serious question must be ask . it have selectively target member , ignore other . my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) refer on the BBC to the Committee as a kangaroo court . now , I have nothing against Mr Seely . he be a very good MP and I have lot of respect for he , but — order . the hon . Lady know that she can not refer to member by name ; she need to refer to they by constituency . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have nothing against he — he be a very good MP — but why have he not be include in the report ? the Committee , in my opinion , be attempt to police language and criticism . it be claim that what have be say about it , but not to it , on tv and Twitter be an attempt to intimidate it directly . do the Committee have an issue with the right of reply ? we never get a right of reply before the report be publish . interfere with the freedom of any Member of Parliament to comment on the Committee ' s work set a dangerous and chilling precedent , not only for freedom of speech but for any work that Committees of this House do in future . mp will not dare criticise — and if that stand , what a sad place our great House of Commons will have become . once a great beacon of democracy and freedom , it risk be taint by silence those who merely speak up . our freedom of speech - love Prime Minister recently appoint the first ever free speech tsar . well , maybe he should include the House of Commons in his remit . the Leader of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Penny Mordaunt ) , say during her recent leadership bid : " our democracy thrive on freedom of speech " . I completely agree . on his website , the Chief Whip , my right hon . friend the Member for Carmarthen West and South Pembrokeshire ( Simon Hart ) , write : " the Government and the opposition be determined to lead the world in make sure that be online in the UK be a safe place to be … somewhere that freedom of speech can thrive " . I agree 100 % , Chief . the hon . member for Rhondda , Sir Chris Bryant , have say — order . the hon . Lady must stop call people by their name — that be twice now that I have have to say that . can she assure I that she notify the Chief Whip and the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) that she be go to mention they ? indicate assent . okay . after the BBC cancel an interview with the hon . member , he write that " some oligarchs ' lawyer be crack down on free speech . " the former leader of the Liberal Democrats , the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , comment about Gary Lineker : " I ' m sure we can count on the Free Speech Union to stand up against this hysterical act of cancellation … " . will the hon . member give way ? I be sorry ; I be nearly at the end . the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) state : " those on the frontline of environmental destruction be freedom fighter " . yet seven mp who express an opinion be haul into the Chamber to defend themselves in this debate . if the House truly believe in free speech for all , it should vote down this motion and send a message that this House will not tolerate the policing of speech for member of this House . by the way , out of common courtesy , I would like to reiterate that I contact the hon . member I have mention in my speech to say that I would be do so — a privilege that the seven of we be not afford by the Privileges Committee , as we have no prior notice that we be to be mention in its report . I conclude by quote from our great Prime Minister ever , Sir Winston Churchill : " everyone be in favour of free speech . hardly a day pass without its be extoll , but some people ' s idea of it be that they be free to say what they like , but if anyone say anything back , that be an outrage . " — [ Official Report , 13 October 1943 ; Vol . 392 , c . 923 . ] Sir Winston be right . rise — order . if hon . member be go to refer to somebody who be not in the debate , it be probably a good idea for they to say , " and by the way , I have notify they , " so that I do not have to keep interrupt . again , may I remind hon . member that they can not refer to other member by name ? but I can , so I call Sir Michael Fabricant . one thing on which I think we can all agree be that we do not envy those people who have to serve on the Privileges Committee . a lot of we on both side of the House receive email some time ago from 38 degree , but apparently that be nothing compare with the number of email that particularly my conservative colleague on the Committee receive : a colleague who be no long in his place tell I that he receive something like 600 email . that really be completely unacceptable . it be wrong to try to interfere with the Privileges Committee , just as it be wrong to interfere with the Standards Committee or indeed with any other Committee of the House , whether that be the Transport Committee , the Committee of Selection — the good Committee of all — or the Administration Committee . that in itself be a breach of privilege , but as colleague have say , it be also a breach of privilege not to allow Members of Parliament to speak out . will my hon . friend give way ? in a moment . part of the argument present for the motion be that there be some sort of collusion go on . I know what drive I to make my comment , which I shall read out in full , as the Chairman of the Committee , the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , do not . I will shortly explain what provoke I to make they . the point be that many of the comment that people make be spontaneous and drive by event . I will explain why , because I see doubt on the face of the right hon . and learn Lady , but let I first give way to the Father of the House . in the form letter , of which 600 copy be send to our colleague on the Privileges Committee — for those who be follow the debate , it be on page 11 of the report — colleague be implore to " protect your own integrity by reject this committee " . the letter end with a call for they to " protect your integrity by resign from this committee " . I agree with my hon . friend that those word be unacceptable . they should not have be say while the Committee be hold hearing . other thing , perhaps , should not have be say either . I certainly agree that it be completely unacceptable to say : " we urge you to take action and protect your integrity by resign from this committee immediately . " incidentally , if hon . member receive 600 email just like that , with hardly any change in the wording , I hope that those email end up where many of the identical email we get end up , which be in the bin . that be what they deserve . but this Committee be particularly difficult . I think it be fair to say that there be nobody in this land who do not have a view , one way or another , about Boris Johnson ; I think possibly Margaret Thatcher be the only other person to have fall into that category . it be perfectly human . whether someone be a judge in the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court , or whether they sit in a quasi - judicial role , they be bind to have view . I totally accept that member of the Committee will try hard , often with success , to put those view in the background while try to make a fair and decent judgment . so why do I say what I say ? I will read it out in full : " serious question will need to be ask about the manner in which the investigation be conduct " — I be talk about procedure . " these be no jurist as be apparent by the tone of the examination . the question of calibre , malice and prejudice will need to be answer now or by historian . " I think people will ask these question , and they may well exonerate the Committee . they may well say that there be no malice or prejudice and that the calibre be excellent , but I think it be fair to pose the question . the next question one might ask be why I tweet those question at that time . well , I attend the hearing at which Boris Johnson give his evidence , and I be there for the whole period . when he give his evidence , the Committee have a quasi - judicial role . he have to raise his right hand and swear an oath , and he do . some of the Committee ' s member — I will not single out any individual because some of they be very close friend of mine — behave with absolute dignity and professionalism , but one turn his back on Boris Johnson as he give evidence , another gasp in frustration and two look heavenward , as if to accuse he of be a liar . if it be a court of law , and we have hear that it be not , the judge would have call the jury to order . of course it be not a court of law , but when a witness come along and swear the oath and a group of individual give judgment , I would call it a court of law . I simply make the point that justice must not only be do but be see to be do . certainly on the day the evidence be give , the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham pull one of her face , as she have just now . it be not in order to do that when take evidence in a quasi - judicial role . I simply suggest that member of a Committee sit in a quasi - judicial role , whether it be the Privileges Committee , the Standards Committee or a hybrid Bill Committee , such as the High Speed Rail ( Crewe - Manchester ) Bill Committee , be not all professional lawyer . many of they be not . there be a very strong argument that they should be train in how to take evidence when sit in a quasi - judicial role , not just so that it be fair — it could be argue that it be not fair — but because , as I say early , justice need to be see to be do . Most journalist who be present , as I be , do not feel on that day that justice be see to be do . the Committee may well have come to the right conclusion . I do not vote against the Committee ' s original conclusion — I personally think the sentence be a little vindictive , but I certainly be not go to vote against the main finding — but it be important that a Committee sit in a quasi - judicial role be see to be act in a fair and proper way . be there collusion in the timing of my tweet ? no , there be not . it be provoke by the behaviour of the Committee when it take evidence from Boris Johnson , and I still stand by my comment . I will say that if , because I send that tweet during the hearing , it intimidate any member of the Committee in any way , and if they think I have act to put pressure on they , I apologise . thank you . I do not think for one moment that I intimidate my hon . friend , in any way , with my comment , but if I have — I use the subjunctive , not the indicative — of course I apologise because that would have be a breach of privilege , as we should not interfere with the proceeding of any Committee . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his comment . the report , with its annex , highlight a sample of some of the tweet . I note that he tweet on 31 July 2022 : " Harriet Harman determine to ' stitch up ' # Boris by change rule of Privilege Committee kangaroo court . " do he now accept that refer to the Privileges Committee as a " kangaroo court " be wrong ? I now regret give way to my hon . friend . I do not remember that tweet , but the answer be yes , I do . my hon . friend give I the opportunity to say that the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) — I say " Rhondda " correctly because I speak Welsh — have the integrity to stand down after the tweet he send . of course , it be fair to say that the House of Commons approve the appointment of the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham as Chair of the Privileges Committee , but I wonder whether on reflection , give the comment she have make publicly , she might have say , " no , it be not appropriate for I to chair the Committee , " just as the hon . member for Rhondda have . I think I have now speak enough . I believe the Committee attempt to behave with integrity , and I think it do behave with integrity . whether it behave without express some sort of prejudice beforehand be a moot point . whether it be able to ignore prejudice be an interesting question , and one that historian may well ask in the future . I have say nothing on this matter until today , as I do not consider that I have a right to do so because I be a member of the Privileges Committee for only a brief time . I be formally replace by my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) , who be now in his place , in September 2022 , before the substance of the investigation into Boris Johnson begin . I want to highlight some of the comment that be make during the period in which I be a member of the Committee , and I feel impel to do so because I consider that the issue go to the heart of how we choose to regulate ourselves as member of Parliament and of the treatment we be willing to tolerate of those member who put themselves forward to assist in the proper functioning of this House . as the report point out , the work of the Privileges Committee be " crucial to our democracy " because the functioning of Parliament and the way we discharge our obligation to those we represent depend on Ministers be truthful in what they say at the Dispatch Box . I be ask to become a member of the Committee in or around April 2022 by my right hon . friend the Member for Tamworth ( Christopher Pincher ) , who be then Deputy Chief Whip . I have express no interest in join the Committee , and I do not say that to be critical — it be just a fact . it be not something I have previously consider or want to do . I know the same apply to the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , who be ask to chair the Committee by her party ' s whip after the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) recuse himself . the Chair have to be a Labour MP under the Standing Order , and it have to be someone of sufficient seniority , so the Mother of the House be an obvious candidate . she have express no previous interest , but she accept the request . I make it clear that I be mount no criticism of either Government or Opposition Whips , who play an important role in the smooth operation of Parliament . it be incumbent on they to find member for this difficult and sensitive task . the Mother of the House ' s appointment be not just the choice of the Opposition whip ; it be approve by the whip on our side — I remember the discussion about it . I know that the Mother of the House draw the attention of our whip to the tweet that she have write , and again this be approve . ultimately , both our membership be approve by the whole House , because the motion pass without Division . to contextualise the appointment of the Mother of the House , I want to say on her behalf that she have already announce her intention to retire from Parliament at the next election . her parliamentary career have span five decade and have be define , probably more so than that of any other person who have ever sit in this House , by her commitment to the advancement of woman ' s right . fourteen week before she take up that appointment , her husband of 40 year , Jack , have die . against that background , I invite member to consider what be more likely : that she agree to chair the Committee as a final act of service to this House or that she do so because she be interested in pursue a personal vendetta against Boris Johnson ? I want to make reference to three tweet write by Lord Goldsmith of Richmond Park — he be name in the report and I have give notice to his office that I intend to do so . two be write while I be a member of the Committee , on 23 July and 7 August 2022 , and one be a retweet , refer to in the report , on 9 June 2023 . the first two be write at a time when the Committee have do no substantive work ; the only thing it have do be make a request for disclosure to no . 10 Downing Street . he write : " the Partygate probe be clearly rig . it be a jury comprise of highly partisan , vengeful & vindictive mp , nearly all of whom be already on the record viciously attack the person they be judge . it be an obscene abuse of power . " another say : " anyone who have any experience of mps know you can not trust they to judge their peer except through the lens of their own ambition & prejudice . it ' s why this system be so open to corruption . " it be completely unacceptable to allege or insinuate that member of the Privileges Committee be corrupt or that the inquiry be somehow rig . the report use the nomenclature of " contempt " , but with the word " corrupt " one could also argue that it be libellous . it have be repeatedly overlook that a number of the conservative member of the Committee , include my hon . friend the Members for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) , for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) and for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) , have already undertake a disciplinary inquiry into Boris Johnson in July 2021 on a completely separate matter . they have be ask to consider whether his holiday in Mustique have be properly declare ; they could have find against he , but in fact they find in his favour . so there be no principled reason for Lord Goldsmith ' s attack , no empirical basis for contend that the Committee could not have find in Boris Johnson ' s favour , because on a previous occasion it already have . at all time , it would have be open to member of this House to vote against the Committee ' s final recommendation , have they disagree . I can not avoid the conclusion that the tweet be design to pressurise the member of the Committee and undermine their work — I say that as someone who , in the end , do not hear the inquiry into Boris Johnson . however , I think that the conduct of Lord Goldsmith manifestly fall below the standard acceptable for any Member of the upper House , let alone a Minister of his Majesty ' s Government . I hope you will forgive I , Mr Deputy Speaker , if I add that I find the environmental pretext that be advanced to justify his resignation somewhat unconvincing , in circumstance where his nose have clearly be put out of joint after he be ask only hour early to apologise . it be a great privilege to follow my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) . not for the first time , she have speak with great integrity on an issue and open my eye to a slightly different point of view , and I be very grateful to she . may I echo she thank to the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , the Chair of the Committee ? let I take she back to 2010 , when I join the House for the first time and she give the new Members ' speech . she speak of what a great privilege it be to be in this House and of its great standard . I recall those message even now , 13 year later . I would like to disassociate myself from the comment of people here who would in any way wish to impugn her integrity , in this role or in any other while she have be in this House . I have make it a rule not to participate in any of the somewhat introspective debate on privilege or standard to date , and I will probably wish that I have maintain that record by the end of these remark . I be not a lawyer . I have not read , and have no desire to read , " Erskine May " . I be just a Member of Parliament and so I have to find my way along as we manage these rule . it be in that context that I hope Members of the House will listen to I . I be inspire by the open comment of my right hon . friend the Leader of the House . in her well - choose word , she summarise where the House as a whole — perhaps not everyone — be on this . as the shadow Leader of the House be now back in her place , may I mention that I be a bit in despair about her comment ? I feel they open she up to people have a perception , which she perhaps do not wish to convey , that there be some partisan benefit from those comment and that this be a party political issue and not in the round a matter for all mp , regardless of their party . I will mention that again in a minute . I thank all member of the Committee . as have be say , be on it be not an easy appointment . rise — no , not yet ; I may come back to my hon . friend . as a regular MP , for I , and I think for many , the habit or custom be that we accept standard or privilege report in this House without contention . I feel that because I do not see all the evidence . I be not in there for the discussion , so I have to rely upon the good integrity of our colleague who be . therefore , it be rare that I would vote against ; I break a three - line Whip on Owen Paterson and I know that some colleague in the House today do likewise . I have to swallow a lot of disagreement with the report on our former Prime Minister and vote for the report on Boris Johnson . to take the shadow Leader of the House back to this , it concern I — it be a suspicion ; I do not know this for a fact — that , on the last vote on Boris Johnson , a vote be engineer on the report and there be not a willingness for there to be a debate . may I caution hon . member ? I think that today ' s sentiment be that we be go to have a good talk about this — we will agree and disagree — but there be not much willingness for we to engineer or to have a vote . we should look poorly upon any Member of this House who seek to engineer a vote for partisan reason . let I explain the depth of my concern about that . I wish to support all of what the Privileges Committee and the Standards Committee say — it be very important that we do that . however , we have increase the level of sanction available to those Committees , give the change that be put through this House about eight or nine year ago on voter recall . we be give those Committees not just the ability to judge our behaviour , but the sanction to remove someone from the House . that be another concern as to why we should not allow these process to fall into partisan issue . I be still confused — if I be honest , because I be not a lawyer — about the difference between interfere and opining , and about the definition of " impugn the integrity " . we say , " you know it when you see it ; it have that sense that you sort of know . " so we have a self - regulate observation . my concern be that decision on whether the Committee have be impugn be make by the Committee itself . it would decide whether it feel it have be impugn and then make that recommendation to we as a House of Commons to advise whether we agree with it or not . however , if our habit be ordinarily to agree with the report , there be really no way to work out whether someone have be impugn or not . as may have be say in this House already , if we look through some of the specific example — I understand that there be other — we see that some may not fit everyone ' s definition of " impugn integrity " . both in the phrasing and , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) say , in the fact that it do not accord in respect of the Standards Committee and the way it be interpret , there be major issue with that part of this . the hon . Member be make a good point about the point at which what one person say impugn someone else . do he agree that a good guide be often the harm principle ? all of we in this place support completely , I think , the concept and the actuality of freedom of speech , but when that harm or be unfair to other , it have to be regard as unacceptable in its effect . the freedom of speech to criticise the Committee to the point where that undermine the Committee , this House and , by its nature , democracy be unacceptable . the hon . Lady make a fair point , although I have two contention with it . first , on the specific , the point I be make be that the determination of whether that constitute harm be put in a report by the people concern , which then come back here for we to support , so there be very little review . secondly , an interesting underlying issue be that we be live through a period when harm be be interpret differently . the way that people who be much young than I appreciate how harm be do be different . the amount they be prepared to take on themselves — rather than to say , " well , that ' s just the way the world be , " and not to see it as harm — be much less than it be in my day . that might be a good thing or a bad thing , but it be different for different generation . that be another aspect of how to assess what be harmful , and we be go through such a fluid period that it be difficult . but the hon . Lady be right : ultimately , I think we would agree , the message today , at the core of this , be to use temperate language . when I come back to the House in 2019 , one thing I notice be how much more coarse political discourse have become in just the two - year period that I be away . it be not just because of the division over Brexit or social medium ; it be also because we be tolerate it . we have a responsibility in this House to oppose that . that be why it be good when we talk across the divide in this House and find agreement , and why that Committee , in cross - party agreement among individual , be something that we could rely on . the lesson be about use temperate language . I share the concern of my colleague about some of the recommendation . not only be they difficult to see work in practice , but there will be chilling effect on free speech . we will have to see whether that be the case . I be not defend what be say ; I just worry that someone like I , who do not know the law or " Erskine May " , will feel that there be certain thing that I may not be able to say , but which perhaps in the past I be — although there be perhaps way to give reassurance on that . do my hon . friend not believe that there have already be a chilling effect ? when we debate the fifth Privileges Committee report , some colleague be too scared to come here and speak , because they be put under threat by other member of the House . I be one of only four who dare to come out and express a different opinion , and ensure that we have a rounded debate . I hear what my hon . friend have say . I do not know whether people would say that , but that should clearly not happen in this House . all member should have the right , and the willingness , to speak without fear or favour . but when I protest about that , I should equally defend that right for member of the Committee . they should be able to look at the issue that they wish to review without fear or favour . my concern with the motion be that it be perhaps a little too overreach in what it seek to do , and be not well structured in its solution and remedy . it have open up question that probably need further investigation by other Committees , so that we can achieve something that ultimately provide all member of this House with clarity on how they should behave and communicate with one another . at the closing stage of what have already be a very long debate , one thing have emerge very clearly : it be a thankless task indeed to be involve in issue of this sort . I would like to congratulate speaker on both side of the argument — not necessarily both side of the House — for the contribution they have make , most notably those who have make the point that they have friend on both side of the argument . that be true of I as well . if I be to single out two particular speech on opposite side of the argument , I would first congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) on give a masterclass in how to defuse a very fraught and serious subject with good humour while still make his case lucidly . I would also commend my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) for her excellent focus on the heart of the matter , which be to ask the question : be anyone seriously suggest that the seven member of the Committee , who go through this exhaustive process , be blind by hatred and bias ? I have be in the House since 1997 , and I hope , with luck , to carry on a little bit long . my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) be in his last Parliament , and I have know he very well since he come in in 2005 . I challenge anybody who know my hon . friend at all well to believe for one moment that he would allow himself to be blind by prejudice and bias in an inquiry of this sort . it be inconceivable . there be a tendency in controversial area such as this never to know when to stop . I remember have an argument with the then Leader of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , from whom we hear at length this afternoon , in the run - up to the debate about Owen Paterson . at that time , the Privileges Committee have produce a report with a very strong sanction . I have be shock that that process have continue after Owen Paterson ' s wife have commit suicide . my argument be to suggest to the then Leader of the House and the people in my party that it would be sensible to note the Privileges report , but to decide on compassionate ground to take no further action . that lose out to an alternative policy and we all know where that lead . it do not lead anywhere any good for Owen Paterson himself , the Government of the day or the reputation of this House . it be a case of not know when to stop . I come to the debate this afternoon fully expect that the opposition might move an amendment argue for sanction against the seven people who be name in an appendix to the report . have that be put to a Division , I would have vote against it ; and have it nevertheless be agree and have there be a Division on the amend motion , I would have vote against that as well . in my opinion , the Speaker be very wise not to select any of the amendment , on either side of the argument . the one argument that I have hear against the way in which the Committee have conduct itself that carry any weight with I be this : I think it be unwise to name specific member in an appendix , when all that the appendix do be give sample , as we have hear , of the sort of extreme criticism border on , and perhaps constitute , abuse to which the Committee be be subject . the Committee would have be wise to anonymise those quote . it could have make the point just as effectively without then give reason to people to feel — with some justification , I think — that they should at least have be inform that they be go to be name . I know the Committee will say , " well , they ' ve have their chance today to set their comment in context , " and some of they have do so . nevertheless , there be one other key point , with which I will conclude , that lie at the heart of the matter . when member engage with a process that be go to judge they in some way , or at least make recommendation as to how they should be judge , which the House of Commons will then decide whether or not to agree with , and when member accept that process , then they really ought to accept the result ; otherwise , they should not have engage with the process in the first place . I close with an example of that , which I have ask my parliamentary researcher ' s permission to mention . my parliamentary researcher be a lady call Nina Karsov . as an infant , she survive the holocaust . in 1967 she be put on trial in Poland for keep an anti - communist political diary . she refuse to engage with the court because she do not recognise its legitimacy . she know what that would cost she : she spend two year of a three - year sentence in a polish jail , until Amnesty International make her prisoner of the year , which help get she release and bring to this country . the fact be that if you be not prepared to accept the verdict of the umpire , don ' t play cricket . I be get increasingly feed up with the brutalisation of language in discussion of this sort , but I have limit sympathy for those people who get into trouble because of tweet and email . if they open themselves up to that sort of thing , that be precisely what they should expect . it be an honour to follow the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , who make a powerful speech . I be delighted to be call to speak in this extremely important debate . for I , the debate be about respect for this House , its decision , its process and its Committees . I have an awful lot to cover so , with due respect to the House and to hon . member , I will not take any intervention . in the early morning of 13 December 2019 , I and just over 100 ordinary people on the Government Benches , and a few on the Opposition Benches , be , in the majority of case , take from our ordinary life and order , with two day ' notice , to report to Westminster . I remember be completely overawe , but above all the emotion I feel there be two overwhelming feeling : those of duty and respect — respect for this place , the institution of Parliament , the legacy and the unyielding burden of responsibility to uphold the fine tradition of public service . some will say , quite reasonably , that I have fail to live up to those tradition ; other will disagree — I will speak more about that later . but suffice it to say , I feel a huge weight of expectation to serve the community in which I grow up , which have do I the honour of send I to this place to speak on its behalf . I still feel that today . I do not make all the right decision — Mr Deputy Speaker , I defy you to show I anyone who do — but I try my very good to do as good a job as I can , to help as many people as I can , and , within those effort , I be able to make some amend for any mistake that I may have make and to work in the good tradition of this House . during my time here , I have meet some amazing people . one of the first people I meet , in the Park Plaza , where we be all initially encamp , be the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) , who be a remarkable man — I consider he a friend and hope he would return the sentiment . I do not think it will come as a surprise to anyone to know that he have a particular style and turn of phrase that do not always land well with some people . it might be because he tell the unvarnished truth about thing , but he get abuse by certain element of the medium and member of the Opposition for his opinion and view , and he be shout at across the Chamber every time he get to his foot . many member have talk today about the lack of respect that we sometimes have for each other , and there be a lack of respect for he , as an elect MP , who , if I be any judge , will be the hon . member for Ashfield long after most of the occupant of these Benches have be send on their way . I have meet some lifelong friend here . I have also meet some people who , quite frankly , I would never get tired of see lock in a set of stock and pelt with rotten vegetable . not all the friend be on the Government Benches , and not all the stock - worthy individual be on the Opposition Benches . regardless of any personal feeling I may have for anyone , the most important thing have be to treat people in this place with respect , at the very least until they have prove that they deserve no such consideration . the first day I report for duty here , I be strike by the thing that most normal people would probably feel : the history and the thought of all the people who have walk these hall before we — the giant of british politic . I hope that my colleague and I would all be able to live up to their legacy , as we try our good to shape the future for our country . sad as some people find it , I try my good to become an expert on procedure — well , as much of an expert as I could anyway . it be nothing like the amazing depth of knowledge that the House and Committee Clerks demonstrate on a daily basis , but enough that I do not make any foolish mistake , say the wrong thing in the wrong place or do anything to embarrass myself , my party or , most importantly , the House . I be a firm believer that this place be amazing . it be special and should be respect and defend by every Member until we be no long member , and even afterwards . those close to I have tell I , at various time over the past couple of year , to walk away when the arduous nature of the job be become too much . " get out of that toxic place , " they say . we have hear member recently say that they will not be stand in the next election , some of they use those very word . but it be not true . this be not a toxic place ; it be an amazing place full of history , majesty , responsibility and duty . sadly , it be make toxic by some of its inhabitant and by the constant " politician versus the people " narrative , which rain down on the public from every possible news medium outlet . some of those outlet be on the right and some be on the left , but they be all consistent in their position that politician , of whatever political affiliation , be not to be trust . I believe that one of the most damaging thing currently in our society be the constant drive by the medium to try to make politician the enemy of the people . just this weekend , I see one prominent newspaper declare significant conflict of interest because mp hold huge shareholding in particular company . some of the shareholding be part of a blind trust that the beneficiary have no mean of control or even know about . some of the shareholding be huge sum , such as £ 2 . 69 in Sainsbury ' s share , or a holding of £ 4 . 36 in Lloyds Banking Group . some of the more notable amount be accentuate by an asterisk , denote share hold by a close family member , as if be relate to an MP mean that people be somehow bar from invest their money . it be just another example of the attempt by certain section of the medium to paint we all as the enemy , in the hope that the mere hint of impropriety and an inflammatory headline will be enough for click . it be no long about sell paper ; it be about click . imagine the disappointment of the reader who click on the salacious headline " Exclusive . share hold ' in secret ' by score of mps raise question about vested interest " , only to read that an hon . Member have £ 4 . 82 invest with NatWest . it be another headline and another nail in the coffin , promote the narrative that the people who come to work in this place be always try to pull a fast one , worthy of disdain and there to be abuse . in my very limited experience , the reality be that the vast majority of people come to this House to do good thing . they work damn hard and , in the main , do an excellent job as member of Parliament , in what have be , over the past couple of year , some of the most try time in modern british political history . but some thing that have happen over the past few month have leave I sad . I be a traditionalist and I believe that thing like respect for the House and its process matter . without that , this place lose some of its legitimacy and , in the environment that I just describe , where there be a constant search for reason to write negatively about we and this place , we do not need to commit these act of internal damage as well . there be enough people out there willing and eager to tear we down , so let we not do it to ourselves as well . on 21 April 2022 , the House debate for about five hour a motion to open an inquiry of the Committee of Privileges into whether the conduct of the then Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , amount to a contempt of the House . at the end of the debate , the motion be put and carry with no dissent voice . follow the withdrawal by the previous Chair from chair the inquiry , the appointment of the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) be table by the Government and approve by the whole House in June 2022 , with no dissent voice — quite rightly . I will not restate the content of this special report , but I have listen carefully to the argument make on both side . the argument for freedom of speech be powerful indeed . we live in a society in which freedom of speech be absolutely crucial , especially in this place . parliamentarian must be allow to say what they want to say without the fear of reprisal — and we can in this place . there be a reason that parliamentary privilege do not extend past those door — it be because it be a privilege . freedom of speech be an important right , but it be not an absolute right . with freedom come responsibility , and in this type of situation , have establish the inquiry without dissent , appoint the Chair without dissent , and appoint the Committee member without dissent , member have then lose the right to criticise later . it be the same principle as when I be a member of the general public a few year ago . when debate an issue of politic , I would ask someone , " how do you vote in the last election ? " they would say , " I didn ' t bother to vote . " my reaction be , " well , you don ' t get to criticise , then . " the same hold true here . member have the opportunity to voice their concern and object and they do not . it should not then be open to member to impugn the reputation of the Committee , of the people who have be choose to serve . they be put in place to do a job . there be seven member : four conservative ; two from Labour ; and one from the SNP . they include : the long - serve female mp in the House and a King ' s Counsel ; two member who have be award knighthood for their long and meritorious service to this place ; and one who be a distinguished magistrate and an impartial upholder of the law . I be sure the other be equally noteworthy , but I do not know they so well . I feel almost uniquely place to comment on this subject , as I have be investigate , find to have transgress , and sanction by a process of this House . yet , out of respect for this place , I have remain silent . in May 2021 , I be find to have break the House ' s sexual misconduct policy , follow a lengthy investigation , and be suspend from the service of the House . I believe at the time that the judgment be wrong . that remain my belief . I have be tell a number of time that I can not say anything about the situation that deviate from that report , which I believe to be in error . out of respect for the House and its process , and at significant personal cost , I have say nothing , so as not to bring myself , the process or the House into disrepute . I feel comfortable in say only that I believe it to be in error as this be relatively self - evident , give that I appeal the decision in the first place . other than say that the judgment be wrong , I make no further comment on the situation , out of respect for the process of this House . when I subsequently receive death threat and demand for an explanation , I say nothing , out of respect for the process of this House . when people who I think be friend in this place avert their eye or turn away when I bump into they in the corridor and say hello , I say nothing , out of respect for the process of this House . when my own party abandon I and lie to my face just at the point I be most in need of their help , I say nothing , out of respect for the process of this House . when week after week , the shadow Leader of the House , the hon . member for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) , stand at the Dispatch Box and call for I to resign , I say nothing out of respect for the House . when I receive an email to say that she be go to refer to I again at the Dispatch Box on 8 July 2021 , a time when I be at my low point and in need of assistance , I reply to that email . I respectfully ask she not to raise my situation again almost two month down the line as I have serve my sanction , and continually raise the point at every turn in order to inflame the situation be have an extremely detrimental effect on my mental health . she ignore my request and bring it up anyway , as well as several more time , with the knowledge that it be cause significant distress . have this be the case anywhere other than in this Chamber , it would quite rightly have easily fit the criterion of the House ' s definition of bullying , but , in this Chamber , she get a free pass . I say nothing , only out of respect for the process of this House . when , at one particularly low point , I find myself balanced on the handrail of Westminster Bridge , I find the will to step backwards instead of forward and to seek help . a good friend from these Benches intervene and I be in his debt . I have be in counselling for more than a year . it be probably a good point to mention the amazing Parliamentary Health and Wellbeing team , and one individual on that team in particular , without whom I would be in a very different place . we have discuss so many aspect of my life and the event of the past couple of year . the therapy relationship be a little bit like a confession . it be in a private room where I could say what I want and unburden myself of the difficulty that I be face — thing that I could not say anywhere else . I have so much to say , but , publicly , I say nothing out of respect for the process of this House . when I stand up to ask a question at Prime Minister ' s question , with friend in the Public Gallery , a member of the Labour Front Bench shout , " you can sit the eff down " , I say nothing out of respect for the process of this House . it continue , Mr Deputy Speaker . there be major local event that I have be fight against in my constituency — they be nationally significant and newsworthy issue . BBC Wales refuse to interview I about they , because I have always refuse to go on the record and talk about my case . it mean that I be not as able as I otherwise would be to represent the view of my community on this important matter , but I will not talk about it , out of respect for the process of this House . if , after all that , I can get through my day and do my job to the good of my ability without speak out and without undermine the process of this House on something that have personally affect I so profoundly , I find it really difficult to take when other , particularly those who have historically stand in this place and purport to champion the good tradition of the House , undermine it , discredit it and abuse it . I draw my remark to an end . I write a personal , handwritten note to every member of the Committee recently to thank they for their service in extremely difficult circumstance . I thank they again verbally now . I hope that they be not still suffer any after effect stem from that service , and I hope that hon . and right hon . member from all part of the House reflect on this hopefully conclude melodrama and consider that this House , its Committees and the whole institute of Parliament be deserve of a lot more respect than they be currently receive . I start by agree with my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) in relation to his comment on my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) , who be currently not in his place . I have to agree that he be one of the kind , fine and fair member in this place , and we should be so pleased that he have serve on this important Committee . I be not go to speak today , but , at the weekend , I speak to constituent about the weighty matter before the House today . they say to I that , as the Member for Dover and Deal , I should speak up . that be because our white cliff stand for freedom — freedom of expression , democracy , and our fundamental british value . they say to I that they feel that this House have lose its way . they say that the very idea that a Member of Parliament could be gag or censure for say what they think on a matter be the type of thing that could happen in Russia or Beijing ; it be not something that they think could ever happen here . that tell I that my constituent think that this Committee have overreach itself . the implication of such overreach can only be toxic to our democracy . that remind I that whether or not it be my wish to speak today , it be certainly my duty to stand here and say that what be happen be wrong and unconstitutional . the hon . Lady remind I of something I learn as a very young reporter — that the member of this place have the very rare privilege of have absolute privilege over what they say , in this place . as an old journalist , I have the honour of teach that to young journalist , who respect the fact that we have absolute privilege over what we say . would she not agree that we should respect that and that it if we abuse it , that be unacceptable ? that be what we be discuss here today — the fact that hon . member have abuse the absolute privilege that they have and undermine the process of the House . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention ; abuse of privilege be something I will be address very shortly . the Privileges Committee and the Standards Committee be Select Committees of this House . that be the constitutional position , and I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Karen Bradley ) , the Chair of the Procedure Committee , for set out the position of the Committee so clearly early . I thank she for that . as every Member know , the Select Committees be a political construct . they be political in their nature and they come to political decision . debate and vote in this Chamber be political — because that be what we do . we be politician . that be what we be send here to do . the job of a politician have no professional standing or qualification , neither be it a trade . it have a no entry requirement — not even math or English GCSE — because we be the Commons . we be the most base and broad range of people , from all walk of life and all type of character . from the very charismatic to the downright dull , all can stand , and the people decide whether or not they want we to represent they and their interest . that be what it mean to be a Member of Parliament . make no mistake : today ' s decision , like any other Select Committee report or recommendation that be bring to this House for we to decide , be political , and the vote at the end of this debate will be political too . should the motion be press to a vote , we will see all of the opposition together in the same Lobby — the SNP , the Liberal Democrats and Labour — and we should have no illusion about the politic go on here , as we have hear in the opening remark of those on the Opposition Front Benches . to be a politician , at its very core , be to debate , to explain , to agree or to disagree . that be what we be elect to do . we be not elect to sit in some sort of pretend court of law . as have be find throughout history , when the Commons go down the route of censuring or expel member for partisan political purpose , it invariably damage Parliament itself . I will point to a very famous example of that , the Middlesex by - election fiasco that see the repeat expulsion of John Wilkes , against the will of the people , who keep vote he in . let I remind the House what the " Encyclopaedia Britannica " have to say on the subject : " wilke be finally expel on inconclusive precedent and by a method undoubtedly fraught with danger to the constitution since it set aside in the name of parliamentary privilege the right of the elector to choose his representative " . there be a concern that what be happen with the current Privileges and Standards Committees be not just override the right of the electorate to choose their representative , but , chillingly , limit what that Member can say . it have be say on several occasion during this debate that the Privileges Committee be a properly democratically constitute Committee of the House , so let I address that . first , it be not . it be one of the very few Committees of this House whose Chair have not be select by contested or secret ballot and whose member be not vote on by each party in the usual way , follow the Wright Committee reform . as such , I feel that this Committee have less legitimacy and democratic accountability than other Select Committees , not more . the Committee should be reform . it be a time for reform of how it be select and how it operate , so that it can have the same legitimacy and democratic accountability as other Select Committees enjoy , follow the Wright reform . that reform work be incomplete and we be see its failing through problem of due process and otherwise . secondly , let I address the issue of questioning and debate . if anybody criticise the work of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , on which I sit , I would not be seek to censure , name and shame , or even expel they from the House ; I would debate they , because it be a political report and it be a matter of political debate . open political debate be a fundamental british value and fundamental to our way of life and democracy . thirdly , I turn to the issue of accountability — or lack of accountability . in this place , we have two Select Committees , the Privileges and Standards Committees , as well as the internal grievance process , all of which have have raise fundamental flaw in natural justice , due process or bias . without the ability to challenge injustice , with the report go through on the nod , as some member seem to prefer , these Committees could continue unchallenged and unchanged . that surely can not be what any of we would want . the issue of accountability be particularly important , because the work of this Committee directly affect the representation of the people . as such , it must be open to be hold more accountable than other Select Committees , and not seek to be less accountable than it should be . finally , let I address the responsibility that each of we in this House have for our how behaviour and leadership affect other people . this issue matter more widely , because how we lead , or mislead , in this place be follow by company and organisation across the country . failure or perceive failure to follow natural justice or due process , act with bias or punish by use sweeper clause on disrepute or reputational matter , give the green light to big business and other private sector employer to do likewise . up and down the land , people be lose their job , their reputation and their saving , and sometimes their family and home , because of a lack of natural justice , due process , fairness or impartiality in their workplace , where big business and organisation simply abuse their power to achieve the end that they want all along . they think it be okay and that they be unaccountable , and they may even think that they be follow the example of this place . I say this to the House in conclusion : it be not okay and it can never be acceptable . it do not just happen within this place . what happen in this place ripple out , so that other people in other walk of life — our constituent — may not get a fair hearing , due process or fair treatment , or may be gag from speak up for themselves in the face of grave injustice in their life and workplace . I be elect here to defend those constituent and to defend our british value , and that be how I will exercise my political and democratic vote today , to vote against this report . as have be express already , people may have many view on Boris Johnson , but what we be here to discuss be the special report . for I , this be about the sense of disappointment that I feel at not have the opportunity to see or comment on the report in advance , or to clarify , as my hon . friend the Member for Workington ( Mark Jenkinson ) and other have clearly say . that be an opportunity we would have welcome , so to find out from the medium before the report be publish be very disappointing . of course , many also use that as a criticism of the previous report : while it may have run to 30 , 000 word , many of we feel we have already read they on Twitter . where that have come from we do not know and we can not say for sure , but it be disappointing that these thing leak out , as it be with any business that should be bring before this House first . of course , as have be mention , many member be not include in the annex . there have be many comment on the make - up of the Committee , the outcome and the process . People even suggest that the result would be some conservative stitch - up for Boris Johnson because there be a conservative majority on the Committee . it have work both way . many accusation will fly around , but many of they will not be true . one issue I take with the report be its methodology . seven people here have be choose , and we be all Brexiteers or vocal supporter of the former Prime Minister . how be that conclusion reach , and how be the annex form ? I think that we have a little more information on how that could be a sample . I welcome that , because it be important that we clarify it . some of we wonder whether it be do base on the number of complaint , for example . some of we make interesting comment on social medium and perhaps attract more complaint than other . let we remember that we have be through an unprecedented situation . those be the circumstance we all find ourselves in and why we be here today . we see the removal of a Prime Minister with a large majority . he be subject to an inquiry , then a sanction be recommend that ultimately lead to his resignation as a Member of this House , and his parliamentary pass be take from he . those be unprecedented step to take against a former Prime Minister . whatever the right and wrong , we be here to debate the report , and I do not want to diverge too much from that , but many have compare the situation to a court of law . as have rightly be say , many have expectation of natural justice on this , but the Privileges Committee be a Committee of the House , not a court . parliamentary sovereignty be paramount — although I always make the point that the people be truly sovereign in this country — but it be still important that the process be see to be fair , as my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) say so eloquently and far more entertainingly early . let I go through some of the comment by member outline in the annex . my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield say that : " question will need to be ask " . my hon . friend the Member for Workington say : " when the witch hunt have be forget , future generation will look back in astonishment . " at no point do that comment mention the Committee itself or its individual member . similarly , although I may have make rather robust comment myself , I do not speak about Committee member specifically , and I just want to clear that up . likewise , my right hon . friend the Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Ms Dorries ) comment . one comment of hers that be include in the annex be from 15 June at 10 . 44 am , nearly two hour after the report be release . the report state that member be free to make whatever comment they wish once the report be final , so why have that comment be refer to in the annex ? many of we take issue with the annex . I think that we can appreciate the point that be make in the report . some of we , myself include , would have prefer the whole matter not to have be refer to the Committee in the first place . that be not , of course , the fault of the Committee member themselves . as I have state on numerous occasion and in many medium interview , I fully respect the job that they have to do . it be important that they be leave to get on with it . I also do not comment specifically on the report until it be publish , but my constituent would expect I to question it and to scrutinise the event lead up to it . at this point , I thank the member of the Committee . Theirs be a thankless task , and whatever decision they come to — be it on this or any other matter — they simply could not win . I thank they for their service in deliver the report , and even though I do not agree with its conclusion or the sanction , I respect the fact that they be in that position . I urge other outside the House to do the same . I hope that we can bring the matter to a close after this evening . any comment that I make with regard to the resignation of the former Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip be relate to comment that he make in his statement , not to the full report itself . I want to clarify that . I do not , of course , have a copy of the report until it be release . at that point , we be free to comment on it . that relate to my tweet of 9 June , which be mention in the annex to the special report . I believe that it be our responsibility as parliamentarian to read and respond to the original report . I have be honour to be a member of numerous Select Committees in my time , and I would expect to do the same for any such report when it be publish , as my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) say . I believe that effective scrutiny be one of the great strength of this institution . I would not want that to change . the report itself state that its conclusion be not influence and no intimidation occur . on the importance of scrutiny by member , I hope the House will excuse I if I paraphrase the great quote from " gladiator " : " be this not why we be here ? " we be here to scrutinise this House ; we be here to scrutinise the work that we do . we must do that respectfully . it be the point of our be here . I be not quite in as good a shape as Russell Crowe be in that movie — certainly not since put on the parliamentary stone . although respect for the House and for process be important , we must also be able to engage and scrutinise where relevant . I strongly refute the idea that I or other Members impugn or deliberately impugn the integrity of the Committee . I therefore clarify once again that any comment make prior to full publication be direct not at they or the ongoing inquiry specifically , but at the circumstance surround the unprecedented situation that we all find ourselves in . I want to talk about our international reputation and what it look like to other . democracy in this country be very much a beacon — as be this House — and something that people look to and admire , and we should uphold it , with free speech , due process , and free and fair accountability in the face of despotic regime around the world . I want that to continue . I be very disappointed by one amendment — I be pleased that it be not select — because that would have set a poor example to people . I find it neither liberal nor democratic . I be proud to be a Member of this House and to serve my bassetlaw constituent . the event of the last few week have leave I disappointed that the issue that they care about be be sideline in order for politician to criticise other politician for criticise politician . we owe it to our constituent to do well . this week I see GB News refer to a number of we , with a mock - up poster , as the " Magnificent Seven " . I suppose one thing that we have in common with the character in that film be that we all want to keep our villager happy , and that be certainly a good start . I probably ought to end the comparison at that point , as I believe that there be only three of they leave at the end of the film , and I be hope that a full seven of we remain by the end of the debate . we have certainly hear some powerful contribution . I respect this House , and I hope now that we can all come together for a far happy ending . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bassetlaw ( Brendan Clarke - Smith ) for his comment on the Privileges Committee . I will make a few short point in relation to comment that have be make in the debate . first , have spend more than a year consider the privilege matter refer to the Committee , I be certain that every member of the Committee believe in the right of mp to speak their mind . however , MPs have special right , and it be those right that the Privileges Committee consider . the Committee be there to ensure that those right be use appropriately and protect . member be perfectly entitle to say what they think about a Privileges Committee report once that report be publish — in fact , we expect that — but while the investigation be take place , I think , and I think the House believe , that member should refrain from make public comment . in fact , the House approve the Commons code of conduct , which be clear that that be the intent of this House . chapter 4 state that member must not " lobby the Committee or the Commissioner in a manner calculate to influence their consideration of the matter . the Committee on Standards and Privileges have regard any breach of this rule as particularly serious and it alone have lead to suspension from the House . " member be perfectly entitle to speak out when they do not agree with the Privileges Committee ' s finding . they have the right to object to and to vote on member appoint to the Committee , and subsequently to raise any alleged conflict on a point of order . they can vote against the motion of referral or seek to amend a motion ; they can comment on the Committee ' s procedure to the Committee itself or to the House ; and they can submit evidence to the Committee and debate , vote and comment publicly on the Committee ' s final report , as member have do . in the three and a half year that I have be a member of the Privileges Committee , I have never once be lobby directly by a Member of Parliament , but I have receive more than 600 email attempt to influence on this particular motion . my view be that the rule in the Members code of conduct be there to protect both Members and Committee member . those appoint to the Committee should be free to deliberate without interference , and those who face allegation should know that anyone ' s attempt to interfere will be reject and they could face contempt proceeding . there be a belief that such interference would always be aim at reduce the sentence , but there be no reason why member can not lobby to increase the sentence ; be anyone to try to do that , they would equally be reject . I be aware that some member believe that the Committee overreach by make this special report , but I do not agree . any Committee have the right to make a special report comment on matter of concern that have arise during an inquiry . the 1947 resolution of the House make it clear that the Privileges Committee can consider and report on not just a matter specifically refer to it , but fact surround and reasonably connect with it . this be the matter that have be refer here . the special report deal with matter in the public domain ; it be not an investigation into allege contempt by any member name in it . it do not explicitly say that the Committee believe the Members name commit a contempt ; nor , therefore , do it recommend any sanction . be any Member of this House refer to a future Committee , it would be incumbent on all the member of the exist Committee to resign , because we would not be able to consider any issue that arise from this report . finally , I want to say a few word about fairness of process . the Committee receive excellent advice , impartial and authoritative , from Clerks of the House and , most importantly , from Speaker ' s Counsel and Sir Ernest Ryder , a Lord Justice of Appeal and Senior President of Tribunals . both have ensure that the process we undertake allow natural justice and be fair to all involve . there be a risk to the system of this House . member will simply not be willing to serve on a committee if they be not allow to take decision in an environment that afford they space to do so in a fair and appropriate manner . I approach this case with a totally open mind — in fact , I believe that all member of the Committee do . in a previous determination in July 2021 in relation to Mr Johnson ' s declaration of a holiday he have receive , we approach that , too , with a completely open mind . in that case , we challenge what be be report by the commissioner ; we seek more information , and ultimately , despite the commissioner recommend a finding of a breach of the code , the Committee decide not to accept that and overturn the finding . in this case , before the case have begin , member of the House of Lords be make allegation of bias , suggest that we have already prejudge the report . the allegation be simply without merit and there be no evidence to support they . the special report be about ensure that this House can continue to follow the procedure and rule that be set out for this House . I urge member to support the motion . with the leave of the House , Mr Deputy Speaker , I thank all member who have take part in the debate . I welcome their consideration of the issue at hand . give the nature of the debate , I wish to make a few point in closing . first , as my hon . friend the Member for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) just confirm , the Committee be entitle to make this report . for those who be interested , the reference be chapter 38 . 51 of " Erskine May " . secondly , to respond to the point make by the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) , the Committee suggest no sanction — that be not an ask it make of the House — and , have hear the debate , I do not think there be any appetite to do any such thing . various member have point to element of the report that they agree with and find uncontroversial — section b in particular — as well as other that they disagree with and find controversial . in the same way , there be mixed opinion on different aspect of the original substantive report . in that respect , this debate perhaps matter more than any vote that might follow it , but I will repeat the point I make in the substantive debate . if the motion be press to a vote , hon . member must use their judgment . whether they agree or disagree , or both agree and disagree and therefore abstain , they be entitle to do that and should be leave alone to do so . during the lengthy speech by my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , I find my mind turn to the parable of the four blindfolded man who encounter an elephant . one feel its tail and say it be a rope , one its leg and say it be a tree , one its ear and say it be fan , and one its trunk and say it be a snake , but none could tell that there be an elephant in the room . although I have nothing against pettifog over " Erskine May " — in fact , a large part of my day , every day , be spend do precisely that — I do not want we to miss the big picture . we have a duty of care to each other . free speech be vital for we to do our job , and with that come responsibility . we have a duty , for the protection of our own right and privilege , to the Privileges Committee and those who sit on it . we be at our good in this place when we say , " sorry , " if we have transgress , as my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) have do , ever so savvily . we be at our good when we be kind and generous to those who have do we wrong , as my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) have be today , and when we turn up and step up to do what we think be right , even though there be no expectation that we would , as my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) have do today . we all shoulder the responsibility of defend this House , and we should remember that , from time to time , that burden fall disproportionately on some shoulder . that should not be a thankless task . I commend the motion to the House . question put and agree to . order , that this House , ( a ) note with approval the Special Report from the Committee of Privileges ; ( b ) consider that where the House have agree to refer a matter relate to individual conduct to the Committee of Privileges , Members of this House should not impugn the integrity of that Committee or its member or attempt to lobby or intimidate those member or to encourage other to do so , since such behaviour undermine the proceeding of the House and be itself capable of be a contempt ; and ( c ) consider it expedient that the House of Lords be make aware of the Special Report and this Resolution , so that that House can take such action as it deem appropriate . Electronic Trade Documents Bill [ Lords ] Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . let I take this opportunity to thank all the member of this House and in the other place who have speak in support of this transformational Bill , as well as those who contribute to scrutinise the Bill so deeply and effectively during its passage . the Bill have follow the special parliamentary procedure for Law Commission Bills . that procedure demonstrate that good and much - need legislation that have already be thoroughly consult on by the Law Commission can be introduce , debate and amend if require in an efficient and democratic way , but with reduce burden on an already busy Parliament . apart from the minor change make to extend this critical legislation satisfactorily to the whole of the UK , the Bill that be before the House remain the work of the Law Commission . I also thank the officer and member of the Scottish Parliament for their work in enable that to happen so smoothly . the Bill be a fine piece of work . it be inform by expert from academia , the legal profession and , crucially , the industry that stand to benefit most from its introduction and will be the drive force behind its implementation . as english law be the foundation of international trade , the Bill will put the United Kingdom ahead of not only the G7 country , but almost the whole world . the UK be set the approach that other jurisdiction will seek to follow , not just on the digitalisation of trade document but on the future digitalisation of all trade , towards which the Bill be an important first step . I record my thank to Professor Sarah Green and her colleague at the Law Commission , include Laura Burgoyne , Daniella Lupini and Siobhan McKeering , for their diligent work . I also thank Oliver Tones , the Bill manager , and Bobby Lawson , his deputy , along with the committed Government lawyer who have contribute to this , specifically Simon Brandon , Louise Dennison and Chris Callan . thank be also due to my private secretary , Jack Collins , who have ably assist I and the Bill team throughout . the Bill have global transformational potential . it will place the UK at the forefront of international trade as a thought leader for other to follow , and will save business an estimate £ 1 . 1 billion over the next 10 year — really tangible benefit , as well as be inspirational thought leader for global trade . as such , I commend it to the House . it be a very rare thing in this place to have the pleasure and privilege of respond on behalf of the Opposition to a Bill that we wholeheartedly support . for that reason , I will keep my comment brief . as we know , the Bill follow a report and recommendation by the Law Commission . as the Minister have say , it seek to remove the current legal impediment to produce document in electronic form , allow they to be legally recognise in the same way as paper document , provide that they meet certain test . it also set out provision relate to how the change of medium between electronic and paper document will work in practice . it be an incredibly important Bill , particularly in a post - Brexit world where substantial red tape be have significant consequence for our ability to trade with the rest of the world . labour see the Bill as go some way towards unlock that red tape by hopefully speed up those process . we all know that central to international trade be the moving of good across border in order to get they from the seller to the buyer . that process typically involve multiple actor , include those involve in transportation , insurance , finance and logistic . one trade finance transaction can typically involve around 20 entity , and between 10 and 20 paper document total over 100 page . in a transaction cover by a bill of lading , for example , it be common to find 50 sheet of paper in a package of ship document that must be exchange between as many as 30 different party . despite the size and sophistication of the international trade market , many of its process and the law underlie they be base on practice develop by merchant hundred of year ago . in particular , international trade still rely to a large extent on a special category of document that entitle the holder to claim performance of the obligation record in that document , and to transfer the right to claim performance of that obligation by transfer physical possession of the actual document . that document be say to embody the obligation , which may be to deliver good or to pay money , rather than to merely evidence it . for example , a bill of lading be a document use in the carriage of good by sea that , when transfer to the buyer or any subsequent lawful holder , give that holder constructive possession of the good describe in the bill and a right to claim delivery of they from the carrier . the law govern those document be premise on the idea that they can be physically hold , or " possess " . industry use those document be therefore prevent by law from move to a fully paperless process . to give a sense of the enormous amount of paperwork that international trade generate , the world ' s large container ship can carry 24 , 000 twenty - foot container at any one time on any one voyage . for each of those cargo , paper transport documentation have to be produce . that documentation must be process manually to go from the shipper of the good to the ultimate buyer at the destination , sometimes through numerous intermediary . the effect of the current law be that much of the documentation need to be in hard physical copy . the Digital Container Shipping Association have estimate that 16 million original bill of lading be issue by ocean carrier in 2020 , and that more than 99 % of those be in paper form . the Minister do not need reminding of the significant environmental cost of that way of work . for those reason , we support the Bill in its entirety . we see it as a long - overdue reform that allow for the legal recognition of certain type of document use in trade and trade finance in electronic form . that will mean that party can finally use the law that currently apply to paper trade document when transact with electronic trade document . it be great of the Minister to confirm in Committee that the Department for Business and Trade will manage this legislation . we be concern about where responsibility would actually sit , give that the Bill be bring forward by the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology and the Law Commission . we recognise and welcome that clarification and I be grateful to the Minister for it . labour see the Bill as a valuable tool in ensure that the world of trade and commerce operate as smoothly and efficiently as possible , and that UK business be not disadvantaged in any way . ultimately , that be what we all want to see . I rise fully in support of the Bill , and congratulate the Government and the Minister on the extraordinary work they have do on it . I also congratulate all member from the House of Lords and the opposition , and all the individual and official , who have do so much to make a Bill that might on its face look very unattractive and unexcite something that I believe to be extremely exciting . I have make no secret of the fact that , before I get into this place , my background be in trade . I understand well the value of bill of lading and the complexity that come with they , but I also stand here as the representative of one of the large export fishing port in the United Kingdom , Brixham . there , the concept of documentation and the point that we make about it be absolutely essential to those fisherman ' s success , and indeed their profitability . I will be extremely brief , because time marche on this evening . the Bill will streamline trade — it will allow we to do all the thing that we very much need to do in an era outside of the European Union , where sign new trade deal offer we new market , new opportunity and new horizon . when I speak to my fisherman , one of the big and most significant cause of concern be the Electronic Trade Documents Bill and put forward export health certificate and export documentation , as well as import documentation . the Bill will allow we to streamline those process to make sure that those good reach their market . whether it be fish , farming , food , good or shipping , we must ensure that we take full advantage of opportunity to help small business across this country that be export , as well as those that be import . we must look at how the Bill will relate to the European Union and its implementation of similar policy , and must also consider how the Bill will work with Commonwealth country . we have make no secret of the fact that we want to work more with the Commonwealth , or that through thing like the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - pacific partnership , we want to be able to do more in term of trade . this Bill set the benchmark — we should be unashamed of talk about the value that it can bring to our economy . the Minister and the opposition have do very well in produce the Bill and work it through to the stage it have reach , but my final congratulation go to the Minister . my hon . friend have speak eloquently about fishing , and have previously raise the subject of fish with I . health certificate be not currently within the scope of the Bill , because they do not relate to possession , but fisherman will definitely benefit from the Bill just as other sector will . as ever , the Minister be incredibly gracious . I appreciate his intervention and thank he for that point , because it will send a message of confidence to my market , and indeed to fisherman across the country . I do not need to detain the House any long , other than to say that the Bill be extremely welcome and we must talk it up . couple with the Procurement Bill that we pass just a few week ago , we be make real progress in the area of trade . we have to be able to get out there and talk about it . I echo the thank that have be pay to the Bill team — the civil servant , both here and in Scotland , who have work to bring the Bill through . when it be in Committee , a debate on a report from the Privileges Committee be take place in the Chamber , which seem to inject a sense of urgency into the Committee proceeding and a feeling that some member would rather have be elsewhere . today ' s debate come after the debate on the report from the Privileges Committee have conclude , so there be slightly less pressure , and the Bill be get the airing it deserve . the hon . member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) be right to take the opportunity to put his point on the record . the Bill be largely technical and uncontroversial , but it be important to put on record some of the key issue that have be identify during its passage , both about its content and the way in which the Government have take it through Parliament . the Bill will ease significantly the regulatory and bureaucratic burden on business by allow the legal recognition of electronic trade document . I think the Government themselves reckon that this could be worth over £ 1 billion in value to the UK ' s international trade over the next 10 year . as we have hear , hundred of page of document previously require to be produce in physical format — which of course will almost certainly have be generate electronically anyway and then print off — can now be exchange digitally , more quickly and more securely . as enable and facilitative legislation , the Bill pave the way for further innovation . last week , I have some fascinating discussion with researcher from the University of Lincoln ' s Institute for Agri - Food Technology , who be visit Parliament as part of the annual evidence week activity . they and the many other business and academic they work with be very excited about the opportunity this Bill will provide for datum sharing and for analytic about the movement of good , and the opportunity in particular that that could bring , for example , for the reduction of food waste and the environmental impact across the supply chain . I think I spend slightly long discuss the Bill with those academic than the Bill spend in its Second Reading Committee , which conclude in just seven minute , and the Public Bill Committee sit for a grand total of 15 minute . their lordship manage slightly well , with a total of about two and half hour of scrutiny across three stage . I think stakeholder must sometimes look at our proceeding with not a little bemusement , and wonder about the Government ' s priority in the allocation and use of time , even if this be an expedite procedure . of course , despite the Law Commission ' s work to develop proposal for the Bill and the various stage of consideration in the House of Lords , it be only when the Bill get to the Committee stage that the Government be finally able to bring forward amendment that would provide Scottish Ministers with the reassurance they need to recommend that Holyrood consent to the Bill . without those amendment , there be a serious risk of yet more legislative overreach by the UK Government , stray into area of Scots law that have be devolve to the Scottish Parliament for nearly 25 year . the Bill have also be scrutinise by two Committees of the Scottish Parliament — the Economy and Fair Work Committee , and the Delegated Powers and Law Reform Committee . the Economy and Fair Work Committee take evidence from the Scottish Government ' s Minister for Small Business , Innovation and Trade in a session that last 23 minute , which be still one minute long than the total time take by this House to consider the Bill until we start this Third read consideration . however , those Committees be ultimately able to agree with the Scottish Government ' s recommendation that the Scottish Parliament should in the end grant the Bill legislative consent . but they have both , as indeed have Scottish Government Ministers , express concern and disappointment at the time it have take to resolve the challenge identify by the Scottish Government in the Bill , as first present both to the Lords and to this House . Consensus have finally be reach and , as the Order Paper note , on 27 June the Scottish Parliament agree a legislative consent motion . I hope that mean attention can now turn to the implementation of the provision of the Bill , the easing of bureaucratic burden , and the innovation in information and datum exchange that producer , trader and other stakeholder in supply chain use to keep we feed , clothe and otherwise go about our daily life . first , thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I to speak on this issue . I will not take too long , you will be glad to hear . as we be all aware at this stage , the main purpose of the Bill be to provide the shipping industry with the legal mechanism to enable the use of electronic trade document without the need to engage in complex and often operationally burdensome process . the hon . member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) refer to the fishing sector , and the Minister reply to he in relation to the concern that he and I both have about that sector in particular . the fishing sector have always be burden with the bureaucracy of Europe , and we always hope that , whenever we get change , those burden might be lessen , but for we in Northern Ireland that really have not be the case . I have long be an advocate of cut unnecessary red tape . that be often one of my gripe with Europe , as I watch small - scale farmer who know their land , their herd and their crop like the back of their hand , yet be ask to fill in form that range from 20 to 70 page , and sometimes more , for their grant . the result of all this be additional stress and the cost of pay consultant to help with what be and be avoidable . for those of we use to be in an office , print or scanning be simple — so simple , in fact , that we sometimes forget that not every household in the UK have the facility to do that . this be why I always advocate the need to bring along those who be not tech savvy , not leave they behind , and that be why the Government bring forward this Bill tonight be so important . the beauty of Brexit for those who live here on the mainland — we in Northern Ireland do not currently enjoy that release from european machination — be that such unnecessary bureaucracy would cease , and in my opinion that be what this Bill seek to do . that be why it be welcome to have it before we , and why we be all very happy with where we be . with that mindset , I welcome anything that cut unnecessary red tape , but I still wish to satisfy myself that , while the paperwork format have change , the necessary security and accountability remain . I do believe , have look at some of the issue relate to the Bill , that this be the case , but the Minister might wish to confirm that at the end of the debate . the reduction of cost associate with the use of paper trade document and a shift to a more environmentally friendly system be welcome innovation , along with the development of digital product and service within the shipping industry , with a view to stimulate business growth . in conclusion , an essential component must be increase security and transparency in shipping documentation . I know that have always be the aim of the Government in introduce the Bill , and I very much welcome that . I hope to see fully achieve what the Minister will sum up at the end . we must make way for progress , while still hold on to system that work well and be in place , and I do believe that this Bill bring those two aim into working order together . with that in mind , I very much welcome where we be . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass , with amendment . Northern Ireland Budget ( no . 2 ) Bill ( Allocation of Time ) order , that the follow provision shall apply to the proceeding on the Northern Ireland Budget ( no . 2 ) bill : timetable ( 1 ) ( a ) proceeding on Second Reading and in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third reading shall be take in two day in accordance with this order . ( b ) proceeding on second read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . ( c ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third reading shall be take on the second day and shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . timing of proceeding and question to be put ( 2 ) ( a ) when the Bill have be read a second time it shall , despite Standing Order No . 63 ( Committal of bill not subject to a programme order ) , stand committed to a Committee of the whole House without any question be put ; ( b ) when the Order of the day be read for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on the Bill , the Speaker shall leave the Chair without put any question and the House shall resolve itself into a Committee forthwith , whether or not notice of an instruction have be give . ( 3 ) ( a ) on the conclusion of proceeding in Committee of the whole House , the Chair shall report the Bill to the House without put any question . ( b ) if the Bill be report with amendment , the House shall proceed to consider the Bill as amend without any question be put . ( 4 ) for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 1 ) , the Chair or Speaker shall forthwith put the following Questions in the same order as they would fall to be put if this order do not apply : ( a ) any question already propose from the chair ; ( b ) any question necessary to bring to a decision a question so propose ; ( c ) the question on any amendment move or Motion make by a Minister of the Crown ; ( d ) the question on any amendment , new Clause or new schedule select by the Chair or Speaker for separate decision ; ( e ) any other question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude ; and shall not put any other question , other than the question on any motion describe in paragraph ( 15 ) ( a ) of this order . ( 5 ) on a motion so make for a new clause or a new schedule , the Chair or Speaker shall put only the question that the clause or schedule be add to the Bill . ( 6 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 4 ) ( c ) on successive amendment move or Motions make by a Minister of the Crown , the Chair or Speaker shall instead put a single question in relation to those amendment or motion . ( 7 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 4 ) ( e ) in relation to successive provision of the Bill , the Chair shall instead put a single question in relation to those provision , except that the question shall be put separately on any Clause of or schedule to the Bill which a Minister of the Crown have signify an intention to leave out . consideration of Lords Amendments ( 8 ) ( a ) any Lords Amendments to the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( b ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume . ( 9 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 7 ) of Standing Order no . 83F ( programme order : conclusion of proceeding on consideration of Lords amendment ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 8 ) of this order . subsequent stage ( 10 ) ( a ) any further message from the Lords on the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( b ) proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume . ( 11 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) of Standing Order No . 83 g ( Programme order : conclusion of proceeding on further message from the Lords ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 10 ) of this order . Reasons Committee ( 12 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) of Standing Order No . 83H ( programme order : reason committee ) apply in relation to any committee to be appoint to draw up reason after proceeding have be bring to a conclusion in accordance with this order . miscellaneous ( 13 ) Standing Order No . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on the Bill . ( 14 ) Standing Order no . 82 ( Business Committee ) shall not apply in relation to any proceeding to which this order apply . ( 15 ) ( a ) no Motion shall be make , except by a Minister of the Crown , to alter the order in which any proceeding on the Bill be take , to recommit the Bill or to vary or supplement the provision of this order . ( b ) no notice shall be require of such a Motion . ( c ) such a motion may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( d ) the question on such a motion shall be put forthwith ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( c ) shall thereupon be resume . ( e ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on such a Motion . ( 16 ) ( a ) no dilatory motion shall be make in relation to proceeding to which this order apply except by a Minister of the Crown . ( b ) the Question on any such Motion shall be put forthwith . ( 17 ) ( a ) the start of any debate under Standing Order No . 24 ( emergency debate ) to be hold on a day on which the Bill have be set down to be take as an order of the day shall be postpone until the conclusion of any proceeding on that day to which this order apply . ( b ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding in respect of such a debate . ( 18 ) proceeding to which this order apply shall not be interrupt under any Standing Order relate to the sitting of the House . ( 19 ) ( a ) any private business which have be set down for consideration at a time fall after the commencement of proceeding on the motion for this order or on the Bill on a day on which the Bill have be set down to be take as an order of the Day shall , instead of be consider as provide by Standing Orders or by any order of the House , be consider at the conclusion of the proceeding on the Bill on that day . ( b ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to the private business so far as necessary for the purpose of secure that the business may be consider for a period of three hour . — ( Scott Mann . ) Northern Ireland Budget ( no . 2 ) Bill Second read [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee on 3 May , 24 May , 21 June and 4 July 2023 , on the funding and delivery of public service , HC 1165 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . in do so , I once again speak with a strong sense of disappointment . at multiple juncture since become Secretary of State last year , I have stand at this Dispatch Box when realistically I should not have be do so . that sentiment very much apply today , because I believe these decision should be take by locally elect politician . the Government have bring forward this Bill because the Northern Ireland party have be unable to form an Executive and subsequently set a budget for this financial year . the Government have therefore be compel to step in again and set another budget . I set out the headline departmental budget allocation via a write ministerial statement to Parliament on 27 April this year , and this Bill put those allocation on a statutory footing . we have also publish more detailed information in respect of each of the Northern Ireland Departments ' spending plan through the main estimate , which I lay as a Command Paper on 3 July . today ' s debate be only the Second reading of this legislation , with the remain stage due to take place after the summer recess . the summer therefore present an opportunity for the Northern Ireland party to come together as a restore executive and take their own budget legislation through the Assembly , make the remain stage of the Bill in this place superfluous . it be no secret that the pressure on Northern Ireland ' s public finance be acute . as with the 2022 - 23 budget , set this budget be not an easy task , but it be necessary to deliver a balanced budget and provide the Northern Ireland Departments with budget clarity to help get their spending under control . as far as possible , we have aim to protect frontline public service . in recognition of the pressure on the health service , over half of the total budget be to be spend on health . of course , these pressure on Northern Ireland ' s finance do not appear overnight . successive former Executives have fail to make the strategic decision require to put the public finance on a sustainable footing and make public service affordable . the unsustainability of Northern Ireland ' s finance can not continue . it be fundamentally the responsibility of the Northern Ireland Executive to run a balanced budget , and until they do , the outcome for citizen will not improve . that be why the Government stand ready to work with a restore Executive on budget sustainability , include the implementation of revenue - raise measure . very quickly , in relation to the budget , my hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) have always refer to the time for the Barnett consequential to be look at , and the population of Northern Ireland be up some 200 , 000 in 10 year , and 100 , 000 in five year . do the Secretary of State not agree that it be time to look at the whole budget for Northern Ireland because of the extra population increase and the diverse community we now have ? there have to be money in place , but that money have to reflect the demand of our population in Northern Ireland . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point , and we could consider introduce a needs - base factor into the Barnett formula for Northern Ireland — it would be a similar mechanism to that implement in Wales — to put Northern Ireland ' s public finance on a more sustainable footing . however , the absence of a function Executive have an impact on what can be do to address the systemic issue that Northern Ireland face . locally accountable leadership be urgently require to ensure that Northern Ireland have a stable and flourish economy , and to advocate for reform of Northern Ireland ' s public finance . to completely answer the hon . Gentleman ' s point , negotiation between the Welsh Government and the Treasury on a fiscal framework and Barnett formula adjustment take over seven year . this be not an issue that could be solve overnight , even with the good will in the world . I be very grateful to the Secretary of State for that confirmation that he be at least willing to discuss consider public finance on the basis of need . of course , the reason why the Holtham Commission process take so long be that it be the first example of the Government have to get their head around need — they have to understand it , and recognise that the public finance should respond to need . now that the principle be clear , surely he do not believe that it would take as long this time around . I very much hope that no discussion with a future Executive would take seven year to come to any conclusion . in the meantime , we have a responsibility to ensure that public service and the management of public fund can continue . that be why I have commission a range of information and advice from the Northern Ireland civil service on potential measure for raise more public revenue and otherwise improve the sustainability of public finance in Northern Ireland that an incoming executive could consider . that be the UK Government ' s first step in support the development of revenue - raise measure in Northern Ireland . it will allow we to well understand the challenge of take this work forward , and support the Northern Ireland civil service in deliver it . the Government have for many year recognise the unique challenge that Northern Ireland face . we have provide around £ 7 billion in extra funding to Northern Ireland since 2014 , on top of the Barnett - base block grant . I be grateful to official in the Northern Ireland civil service for keep public service run until an Executive be in place . the Government will continue to support the Northern Ireland civil service where we can , but it be important to note that responsibility for the difficult spending decision flow from this budget will ultimately continue to rest with the Northern Ireland Departments in the absence of an Executive . I do not want that to happen , and I encourage the people of Northern Ireland to urge their locally elect politician to return to Stormont , so that decision can be take by those who be democratically elect to do that . as I say , the difficulty that Northern Ireland Departments face be a result of tough decision not have be take by elect representative in Northern Ireland , not just this year , but over successive year . funding alone will not solve the issue ; that will require strong , responsible leadership , back by a stable , devolve Government . we need the Executive back , so that they can progress much - need and long - promise public service transformation . like other , I welcome the party ' ongoing discussion with the head of the Northern Ireland civil service . there be a great deal of work go on behind the scene about what a plan for government , and a budget for government , would look like , and how critical issue will be address when the Executive come back — issue such as budget sustainability and well , more efficient public service , which should be everyone ' s priority . however , the head of the Northern Ireland civil service have write to I to say that thing now need to become more political . in a way , I agree , but if that be to happen , all the party must confront hard choice and ensure stability , rather than regular political crisis . we must restore confidence in the institution and show the people of Northern Ireland and the world what good devolve government look like . I look forward to speak with all the party leader in the come week , and receive their proposal for the budget and a programme for government . as one of those leader , may I be absolutely clear ? my objective be to ensure that we get solid foundation for the restoration of our devolved Government , and that we do not meet another crisis in six month ' time , or a year ' s time . that be why I will continue to work with the Government to get this right , and to put in place the measure that be necessary to safeguard Northern Ireland ' s ability to trade within its own country — within the United Kingdom — and its internal market . that be essential to build the stability of which the Secretary of State speak . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point . he and his party representative , and indeed all the political party in Northern Ireland , have be work extremely hard behind the scene — and in front of the camera , after each occasion — to develop what will , hopefully , be a plan for government , and proposal for the budget . as I say , it be time to bring those proposal forward into more political discussion . I know that each of the political party will require a little time to develop those plan within their political committee and what have you . I should acknowledge , though , that I have already receive budget proposal from the Alliance party , and I would welcome similar engagement from all the other party . before I briefly summarise the intention behind the Bill , I should express my sincere thank to the Opposition for their continued co - operation with the Government as we seek to bring the Bill forward at the requisite pace . I be particularly grateful to the shadow Northern Ireland Secretary , the hon . member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) , who , as always , have be constructive . I also thank other on the Opposition Front Bench for the way that they have approach the Bill , and my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , who be Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , and the Committee member , for their interest in the Bill . the Bill will place on a legal footing the budget allocation that I outline to the House via write ministerial statement on 27 April . I be conscious that the hour be already relatively late , and lot of hon . and right hon . member want to contribute . I therefore do not propose repeat the content of that write ministerial statement , which set out the departmental allocation reflect in the Bill . I be very cognisant of the difficulty that the Secretary of State face with the Bill , and his frustration at have to deliver it at all . it be clear , though , that the budget for education in Northern Ireland be go down , even though the budget for education in England be go up quite substantially this year . give the pressure face in education , and what the Education Committee have hear about those pressure , can he at least confirm to the House what per - pupil spending in Northern Ireland will be after these budget change ? how will it compare with per - pupil spending elsewhere in the UK ? or perhaps the Minister of State , Northern Ireland Office , my hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Mr Baker ) , can give those figure in his concluding speech . I thank my hon . friend for his question , and acknowledge his long - stand interest in this area . he do great work on the Select Committee . I know that he have read the Institute for Fiscal Studies report publish on 21 April , which state that Northern Ireland spend similar amount to England and Wales per pupil in 2022 - 23 . spend per pupil in Northern Ireland grow by 11 % in real term between 2018 - 19 and 2022 - 23 , after have fall for almost a decade . I will try to get he the exact detail ; if I can not do that by the end of this debate , I shall write to he with they , but we have be follow this issue , and he have be prod we along all the way . I be talk about the budget ' s departmental allocation . as in the 2022 - 23 Northern Ireland budget , the allocation be develop after extensive , sustained engagement with the Northern Ireland civil service . the Bill will mean that Northern Ireland Departments have a total resource budget available of £ 14 . 2 billion , and a capital budget of £ 2 . 2 billion . that include the Northern Ireland Executive block grant , set at the 2021 spending review and through the subsequent operation of the Barnett Formula , and income from regional rate . I emphasise — I will no doubt state this a number of time , in this debate and elsewhere — that the sum available for this budget would have be the same sum provide to the Executive for 2023 - 24 , if they be in place . I recognise that the Northern Ireland Departments , in the absence of elect Ministers , will face difficult decision , but it be necessary to deliver a balanced budget . these decision rest with the Northern Ireland civil service , but I will continue to work with they to protect frontline service in Northern Ireland . I fully concur with the Secretary of State about the importance of the Executive be restore . the other point he be make be about ensure that the Budget be balanced . do he recognise that there be a certain disjoint between the current guidance that the civil service have and the expectation place on it in balance the Budget ? they can not touch the statutory area , which mean that the non - statutory area be be overly target . also , the Departments be overspend because they can not live within the budget control . unless some action be take over the remainder of this year , we will see a massive overspend , which will create a big hole and a big challenge down the line and lead to deep cut . the hon . Gentleman make a wise point , and I know he follow this issue closely . we be work closely with the Northern Ireland civil service on this matter . as he allude to , when the UK Government take over the responsibility overall , we inherit an overspend for 2022 - 23 . a reserve claim of £ 297 million be provide to balance last year ' s Budget . despite projection of an overspend throughout the year and the UK ' s agreement to the reserve claim , the final budget figure from 2022 - 23 show a slight underspend of £ 40 billion , so it come in at £ 257 million . I know that those big sum of money will still cause great concern over the budgetary issue in Northern Ireland , but it do demonstrate how monitor round and monitor spending bring about amazing behaviour for budgetary purpose . I would like to think we can work together in this space in the future . however , the one thing I do know — it have be demonstrate time and time again — be that that work would be well do by a locally elect Executive , with Ministers accountable to the people who elect they . as I mention , with agreement from the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , flexibility have be grant on the repayment of this reserve claim , which move the repayment into the next financial year , not this one . before I conclude , I will briefly run through the Bill clause by clause . can the Secretary of State confirm that the UK Government still provide additional funding to the Police Service of Northern Ireland to reflect the lethal terrorist threat to which Northern Ireland be still subject ? indeed , we do provide that funding . it be to the value of £ 32 million a year this year and next year for sure , and then the future be the future . clause 1 and 2 authorise the use of resource by Northern Ireland Departments and other specify public body , amount to — I love figure like this — £ 27 , 403 , 000 , 514 in the year end 31 March 2024 , for the purpose specify in part 2 of schedule 1 and subject to the limit set out in subsection ( 4 ) to ( 7 ) of clause 2 . clause 3 and 4 authorise the Northern Ireland Department of Finance to issue out of the Consolidated Fund for Northern Ireland the sum of £ 22 , 790 , 893 , 000 for the purpose set out in part 2 of schedule 1 . clause 5 authorise the temporary borrowing by the Northern Ireland Department of Finance of £ 11 , 395 , 447 , 000 — approximately half the sum cover by clause 3 . that be a normal safeguard against the possibility of a temporary deficiency arrive in the Consolidated Fund for Northern Ireland , and any such borrowing be to be repay by 31 March 2024 . clause 6 authorise the use of income by Northern Ireland Departments and other specify public body from the source specify in part 2 of the schedule for the purpose specify in part 2 of the schedule in the year end 31 March 2024 . clause 7 provide for the authorisation and limit in the Bill to have the same effect as if they be contain in a budget Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly . it also modify reference in other piece of legislation to Northern Ireland estimate , which would normally form part of the Assembly ' s supply process . clause 8 and 9 be self - explanatory and deal with " Interpretation " and " short title " . finally , the schedule to the Bill set out the amount of money authorise for use for each Northern Ireland Department , the purpose for which it can be spend and the other source of income from which the Departments can draw . before I sit down , I express my sincere thank for the ongoing hard work of the civil servant in Northern Ireland . with this Bill , I be only set out the available total resource and capital budget for the Northern Ireland Departments of £ 14 . 2 billion and £ 2 . 2 billion respectively . I make it clear that in the absence of an Executive , it be now the responsibility of the Northern Ireland Departments to make the specific spending decision to ensure that they live within the Budget limit as set out in the Bill . I recognise that be not an easy task and require difficult decision , but people in Northern Ireland rightly expect to see those decision take in Stormont , and I wholeheartedly agree with they . however , until a function Executive return , this Bill will allow public service to continue function and will help to protect the public finance in Northern Ireland . I therefore commend this Bill to the House . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for set out the measure in the Bill . Northern Ireland Departments be in a challenging position , and this budget will at least give they some certainty to allow public service to remain function , but that should not take away from how this budget have be receive in Northern Ireland . civil servant , who have to make decision base on it , be operate in the most difficult of circumstance . I pay tribute to they , as the Secretary of State do . they should not be in this position . this Bill will not create new money , but will allow Departments and public body in Northern Ireland to spend within the limit the Secretary of State set out in the write ministerial statement in April . it confirm that the Government will no long require the £ 297 million overspend from the 2022 - 23 Budget to be repay to the Treasury this year . before go into the allocation before we , it be worth reflect on the situation in Northern Ireland and how power - sharing might be restore . on my recent trip to Northern Ireland , there have be a pervading sense that the Government have allow thing to drift since the celebration for the 25th anniversary of the Good Friday agreement . we have a new agreement with the EU in the Windsor framework , but Stormont have not be restore . indeed , the main purpose of the framework be suppose to be answer the concern of the Democratic Unionist party so that Stormont could work again . when we pass the previous budget , there be a clear expectation that a new agreement would lead to the restoration of the Assembly and the Executive . instead , Westminster have have to step in with the Northern Ireland ( Interim Arrangements ) Act 2023 and , now , this second budget Bill . be the hon . Gentleman ' s attention draw to a report in the Daily Telegraph on Saturday , where a Marks & Spencer senior executive point out that some of the issue they be promise would be resolve through the Windsor framework and the green lane and the red lane be far from be resolve ? I be grateful for the hon . member ' s intervention . he will know my personal view , which be that the outstanding issue relate to the Windsor framework and the protocol could be resolve from within the Executive and the Assembly . however , there be clearly outstanding issue . I hope that the Government will help to resolve they . they have say in various form that they be willing to engage with different measure from legislation through to other set of negotiation . I hope that they will happen apace and that the hon . member and member of his party and all party in Northern Ireland be as involve as be physically possible so that there can be the engagement that I believe be lack in previous negotiation . as an opposition , we always want to be constructive when it come to Northern Ireland , and I be grateful for the Secretary of State ' s acknowledgment of that . we be concern , though , that the wrong lesson have be learn from the Windsor framework negotiation . on Wednesday 21 June — for the benefit of our friend in Hansard , who be work so hard , I refer to volume 734 — the Secretary of State say : " the one thing that I do learn from the Windsor framework negotiation be that confidentiality in modern - day british politic and western politic be key in try to get anything over the line . " — [ Official Report , 21 June 2023 ; Vol . 734 , c . 779 . ] I be not sure that that hold true in the present circumstance . there be a strong argument that the secrecy of the Windsor framework , after month of secret talk , leave it lack local ownership and local legitimacy . I understand that the Secretary of State be not go to spell out every detail of what the Government be do , but provide some basic information would reassure Parliament , the public and , above all , people in Northern Ireland and those who represent they here in Westminster and in Stormont . I would be grateful if the Secretary of State confirm whether he intend to bring forward primary legislation to address the Windsor framework . be that still on the card ? he have mention it several time . I notice in his answer to recent oral question that that be still open for debate . it would be really good to know whether the House will be get primary legislation — it have be request and he have hint at it — and when we could expect it . be the Government instead seek a renegotiation with the EU ? there be also the question of whether the Irish Government have a part to play in this . I be interested to read that student nurse in Northern Ireland will now be fund by the Republic . be the Secretary of State have discussion about other financial contribution in these extremely challenging time ? another option available to the Secretary of State be call an election , but I be sure he agree that it be highly unlikely that that course of action would resolve the current impasse . we do need to know what the way forward will be and what the Secretary of State believe will see Stormont return to active service on behalf of the people of Northern Ireland . return to the Budget before we , the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee inquiry into the funding and delivery of public service have be extremely informative . I join the Secretary of State in thank those who serve on the Committee for the work they do . the Chair of the Committee , the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , have always say that we should decouple the issue surround the protocol from the public finance and restoration of Stormont . the evidence before his inquiry have be illuminate . even before Stormont collapse , the inquiry find that long - term pressure on public service be not be address . I also pay tribute to the excellent work of the Northern Ireland Fiscal Council , which have move the debate forward on the sustainability of public finance . it be impressive that such a new institution have already become such an authority . in its report on this budget , it say that " the NI Civil Service believe that Departments may still need to find £ 800 million in cut and additional revenue not to overspend again , give other budget pressure . " that be a huge amount of saving to find when Northern Ireland be face the same challenge as the rest of the country . we should put on the record the view of some of those who have already be most affect by those decision . in particular , the challenge face the Department of Education highlight the deficiency in set a budget from Westminster in the way we be today and as we have previously . follow the intervention by the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , I will go into a little more detail on that . I hope that the Secretary of State or Minister of State will respond in wind up . these comment , by the Department of Education permanent secretary , Dr Mark Browne , come directly from an extraordinary press release on the Department ' s very own website : " the Department ' s vision for all child be that they will be happy , learn and succeed . deliver on this be particularly challenging in the current budgetary context , especially in term of address the need of our most disadvantaged child and young people . " in its assessment of the budget , the Department say that the 2023 - 24 allocation result in a non - ringfence resource funding gap of £ 382 million , equivalent to 14 . 8 % of the final budget allocation require for 2023 - 24 . it state : " manage resource shortfall of this magnitude will undoubtedly have a significant and adverse impact on the Department ' s ability to deliver educational service in 2023 - 24 . " the hon . Member have highlight an area in which I have serious concern — the policy be put forward relate to our civil service , our Department of Health and the contract that be cost not just Northern Ireland but the United Kingdom a fortune . we be tie in by that . the Departments depend so much upon monitor round funding during the year to make up some of the shortfall . our monster Department of Health have swallow all that , and will continue to do so until we have major reform , not just in Northern Ireland but in the UK too , because the same contract apply all over . the hon . Gentleman highlight the chronic need for investment and reform in Northern Ireland . one in four people in Northern Ireland be on an NHS treatment waiting list . we have already examine in some detail the challenge in the education system . we really need to get thing move and modernise in Northern Ireland . in my view , that should come from a partnership between the Westminster Government and Stormont . we should all be work together to focus on the big issue , because people ' s need depend on it . that be why we must urgently get over the hurdle to restore Stormont as quickly as we can , to focus on those primary issue , which be also the primary concern of resident across Northern Ireland that member here tonight represent . to return to the quote from the Department , in practice that mean the ending of a wide range of scheme mean to benefit child . so far , that have include Engage , Healthy Happy Minds , the school holiday food grant scheme and many more . however , significantly , a range of early year programme will continue — thank goodness . that be after the Department produce an analysis of the impact that end they would have on people ' s life . in the word of Dr Browne : " in consider the scale and cumulative impact of the propose cut , which represent a major change to long stand ministerial programme and policy , I be of the view that such a decision should be take by a Minister , not a Permanent Secretary . " in effect , that be a senior civil servant say that it might not be possible to work within the budget without a Minister take decision . that be not just an issue for the Department of Education . a recent report from BBC Northern Ireland say : " DfI official believe they lack the legal authority to take measure necessary to balance their budget . " I will not take up much more time because I want to allow voice from Northern Ireland to have their say on what the Budget mean for they and the resident they represent . the Minister need to be clear with the House whether we will need more legislation to provide clarity on the decision be make as a result of this budget . we will not oppose the budget , as department have be work to its allocation for month already , but the good solution remain the restoration of Stormont , so that local representative can get on with the budget and political accountability there . I urge Government to get on with the measure that would make that a reality . member will be aware of my keen interest in all thing the Union . in truth , I have intend not to speak but to come , listen and learn from colleague from across the House who in many way be much more closely attach to these issue than I . I will start , as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State do , by thank all those concerned for the amount of time and effort they have put into resolve these issue . they be tricky issue that have vex mind fine than my own for many year in many different way . in particular , in recent month I have notice how much effort the Government have put into try to resolve thing . the Secretary of State have take a very close personal interest in these matter , as have the Prime Minister through the effort on the Windsor framework . I recognise and acknowledge that , as well as the involvement and effort of Opposition Members in the negotiation and ongoing discussion . I want to tiptoe carefully into this debate by ask some question around the context , in particular pick up on a couple of comment the Secretary of State make from the Dispatch Box . on the introduction of the Barnett formula to the discussion , while I understand the potential attraction of that kind of settlement , from a Welsh perspective I urge caution . I would not by any mean describe the Barnett formula as a settle matter in Wales . I would urge caution about a move to a needs - base formula . in Wales , we have an economy — I say that word almost in quotation mark — that be largely public sector dominate . it be not a function economy in the way that we might think be vital , with the role of the private sector in drive , grow and sustain the wide community , so the provision be questionable . the first point I want to speak to relate to institution . the Secretary of State mention good governance and , several time , make point about the democratically elect representative in Northern Ireland . that be really important , because we have elect Members in Northern Ireland , both in this place and in Stormont . as I understand it — I be happy to be correct by any Member here — those member have act within the rule of that institution . the fact that Stormont be not sit be a technique that have be use by other in previous year . it be not new ; it be not original . it be a function of the arrangement we have in place . my grandmother once tell I that two wrong do not make a right . be the hon . Gentleman make the argument that just because Sinn F é in bring the Executive down for three and a half year , it be okay for the Democratic Unionist party to do the same ? I be not sure how the hon . Gentleman get there from what I say , but that be not where I be go . that be absolutely not where I be go . I simply make the observation that they have do it and that other be do it , and that validate the existence of a mechanism in place which people have use . that be all I say . the point I would make , though , be that if there be a democratically elect body and the mechanism within that institution be be use , how be that not uphold the institution in place ? if that be the case — the function of the institution and the rule that underpin it be be uphold — what be the good governance that the Secretary of State be seek ? be he seek something else ? be he seek something outside the rule that be in place to uphold that institution ? I thank the hon . Member and my friend for give way , and for his interest in the Union . he be make a very important point . for some , it be convenient at time to talk up the need for cross - community consensus and to talk about the rule . it be less convenient for they at other time , when the rule be follow and people play by the rule . when thing happen that undermine that cross - community consensus , then unfortunately the rule mean that our institution do not work to the extent that we would like they to . therefore , rather than howl at the moon , be it not well that we fix the problem and restore the consensus ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . that be where I be head with my next point . as I say , I tiptoe into this . I be very conscious that other be much close to these issue than myself . I offer my comment because I think , from the little I understand , these be important point of context for what be happen and what we be see . finally , the Secretary of State have make the astute point that money alone can not solve this . I think it be the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) who say that some extra £ 7 billion have be put into Northern Ireland . somewhere along the line , the United Kingdom have move from an understanding of a covenant among the different part to one of a contract ; we have become very transactional in our understanding of thing . I would just make the observation that that do not fix thing . it do not fix the relationship . at the heart of the issue , as I understand it — the Minister may comment on this point in his sum up , if he see fit — be a relationship and a covenant , not a contract . it be about identity and a place within the Union , as express through trading relationship . we have be bring to a point at which Stormont have not be sit , which be why we have this item of business before we today . I will not keep the House any long ; I thank hon . member for their forbearance in listen to my question . may I begin by express my personal disappointment that once again we be here pass measure that should rightly be pass in Stormont ? I will add a significant caveat : I have hope that we might be able to get through today ' s proceeding without some of the finger - wag homily that we have hear in the past from member on the Government Benches about the need for Northern Ireland to get its public finance in order , as if the political position in which Northern Ireland find itself have absolutely nothing to do with the choice of this Government or their predecessor . some difficult political choice be absent from the measure that we be set to move on with today . the very reason that we be here have to pass they be the political chaos that the choice of this Government and previous government have inflict on the body politic in Northern Ireland over Brexit , and through a Brexit that be still clearly not do . the first thing to note about the Bill be that , although it might be call a budget Bill , it be quite clearly no budget in any meaningful sense . at any level of government , local or national , a budget be or should be a statement of the political and policy priority of that government reflect in the allocation of resource . instead , what we have here be a series of spending limit , absent any kind of reflection of current political priority or choice that might be make . it be a kind of financial salami - slicing in the shape of the ghost of ministerial policy decision past . in our debate on the Northern Ireland ( Interim Arrangements ) Act 2023 , the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) — I hope I be quote he substantially accurately — say that the return of an Executive would not remove the budget challenge that be currently be face in Northern Ireland . that much be certainly true , but it be also true that in the absence of clear political choice it become much hard to meet those budget challenge through proactive , positive decision making — about cost - save measure , yes , but also about potential cross - cut efficiency and , fundamentally , about what be to be value and protect above all else when it come to spending in the public realm . that heap the pressure unfairly on public sector management , civil servant and those on the frontline , but , as ever , those who stand to lose out the most be those who be most dependent on the public service face those cut : predominantly those who be least well - off and have the least opportunity to influence the political debate in Northern Ireland . I think it fair to say that the dismay at some of the outcome of the budget process across Northern Ireland be palpable . the trade union Unite have highlight that cut to the Department for Infrastructure threaten not just health , but public safety . the Northern Ireland Construction Group have warn that the cut will affect every sector , citizen and visitor to Northern Ireland and even put people at risk of serious harm . the charity Children in Northern Ireland have warn that the cut threaten to push community group and charity " to the brink of collapse " . a joint report by Ulster University , Newcastle University , Queen ' s University and Stranmillis University College have warn of an " unremittingly bleak " outlook for young people and education as a result of these measure , warn that they " be disproportionately impact " the most disadvantaged child and young people in our community . the report speak of " far - reach and serious consequence of the cut to the education budget " , point out the disproportionate effect that the cut have on pupil from disadvantaged background and state that " those child who be most disadvantaged will most acutely feel the pain of this budget lay down by the Secretary of State " . it conclude that " the cut execute will have a devastating impact on those child most vulnerable and furth from opportunity " . I be sorry that the right hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) be no long in her place but , in her intervention on the Secretary of State , she ask how much additional resource currently come from the UK Government to support police in Northern Ireland . that figure be £ 32 million — a figure that I be pleased to say accord exactly with the figure give to I by the Secretary of State in answer to my question on the psni at Northern Ireland question a few week ago . however , that £ 32 million pale into near insignificance in the context of the £ 141 million budget gap face the psni . the chief constable have say that the budget gap can be meet only by far reduce officer number , at a time when police officer number in the PSNI be at their low since 1978 and the PSNI be already some 1 , 000 officer below the recommend establishment figure from the beginning of the force ' s life . real consequence arise from this situation , not only for public service and the social settlement but for the security that people can expect in their community and , of course , for the broad security situation , which be still rate as severe by the Government ' s security agency . I could go through any number of budget line that be affect , but I do not think that would necessarily do we a huge amount of good at this stage , so I will begin to draw my remark to a conclusion by refer to the September 2020 report publish by the Equality Commission for Northern Ireland on the Department of Finance ' s preparation for Northern Ireland ' s 2019 - 20 budget . the report set out a number of finding and recommendation on the Department ' s failure to comply with its own equality scheme commitment . in do so , it outline some key aspect of the Secretary of State ' s role in the budget process . although the Secretary of State be not a designate public authority for the purpose of section 75 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 , his Department and the Department of Finance be . the report conclude : " the Budget for Northern Ireland … be a policy and within scope of the Department ' s equality scheme arrangement and commitment . . . the decision maker on the policy be , on this occasion , the Secretary of State . the Secretary of State be responsible for not only decide upon the Budget , but also discharge the statutory duty in Section 75 in relation to the Department ' s function , as well as for all the other government department . " although the finding of the Equality Commission for Northern Ireland be clear that the Department of Finance be a focus of its investigation , the Secretary of State be and remain responsible not only for decide the budget but for discharge the equality duty set out in section 75 . will the Secretary of State , or the Minister of State , Northern Ireland Office , the hon . member for Wycombe ( Mr Baker ) , in his sum up , elucidate on what he understand his section 75 duty to be ? how can he demonstrate in this process that he have comply with those duty ? do he have any plan , even at this stage , to produce and consult on an equality assessment of the overall budget measure before we today ? I conclude on a measure of agreement , as the Secretary of State , the shadow Secretary of State and I can all agree that the good people to take decision of this kind be those who have be directly elect to the Northern Ireland Assembly . I well understand the reason we be here now . I have certainly never be shy about offer my advice to this Government and their predecessor on how they might look to solve some of the self - inflict difficulty they have create over Brexit . the Government have unaccountably show a marked reluctance to take up my advice , no matter how well mean , but , give that the Windsor framework have clearly not land as be hope , I sincerely urge the Secretary of State and his ministerial team to redouble their effort to bring about a political environment in which it might be possible to restore Stormont , and therefore restore local political decision making and accountability . as the Secretary of State have say , tonight ' s debate and the Bill be simply to allocate money , which we have already decide on in previous debate , to various Departments . although I make a promise to the Minister of State when we discuss this on Thursday that we would try to stick to the debate on the budget and try not to wander into the Windsor framework , Brexit and the Northern Ireland protocol , the issue of — another promise break . the promise actually be break by the Secretary of State . it be a two - sided promise : that would not be raise by Ministers , who would be sensitive to the issue , know what our answer to these issue be and , in turn , we would stick to the budget debate . that promise have not be keep , so it would be remiss of I not to make it clear , as have be make clear by my party leader in an intervention , that we want to see the Executive up and run , but there be rule for the working of the Executive . there be important safeguard for the Executive to work : the view of both community have to be respect , accept and reflect in the decision make in the Executive and in the decision make by the Executive . as thing stand , with the protocol and the framework , there will still be a requirement for foreign law to be impose in Northern Ireland and for Ministers of a unionist disposition to operate that system — a system that the Government , even in the Windsor framework discussion , indicate would lead to divergence between Northern Ireland and the rest of the UK . a paltry safeguard of the Stormont brake be put in but , even if it work , it still would not stop Northern Ireland become far away from the rest of the UK because of decision make in this House about law that would affect the United Kingdom , exclude Northern Ireland . I have to say to the Secretary of State that , while that situation pertain , he can not ignore the requirement of the law in Northern Ireland . the view of both community must be reflect , accept and implement in the Executive and the Assembly . if that do not happen , they can not function because we do not have the basis for agreement and for decision be make . it be debatable , of course , but we can talk about the Executive , up and run , be able to decide and resolve some of the issue that have be talk about here today . as I go through my speech , I point out that the Executive , its implementation and existence be not essential to deal with some of the fundamental issue that have give rise to the budget problem that Northern Ireland be face . I wish to make two point , the first of which be about the impact of the budget on service in Northern Ireland . like the SNP spokesperson , the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) , I do not want to go through every Department but , as this have be raise by two or three speaker already , one of the stark indication of the budget problem we have in Northern Ireland be to be find in education . there will be a 2 . 8 % reduction in education spending in Northern Ireland , while in England there will be a 6 . 5 % increase . that will affect the aggregated school budget : the amount of money that go to individual school . it will particularly affect youngster with special educational need because , of course , as have be say , the easy thing to cut be thing like classroom assistant . of course , spend on classroom assistant and support for people with special educational need be to be cut by 50 % . there be already 11 , 000 child diagnose with special educational need who will be affect , and there be a waiting list of 400 child who have not even be place , so we can see the ongoing problem and the problem we will build up over the year because of the cut in the education budget . I could also talk about aspect of the education budget that be design to help youngster from deprived background , such as measure on school meal that be introduce by the Minister from my party . they will have to be reduce as well , which again tend to affect child from the most disadvantaged area . let we take the other example , which have also be mention . I serve for some time on the Northern Ireland Policing Board . policing be important for any community , and it be particularly important in Northern Ireland because of the ongoing terrorist threat , the problem of paramilitary and the terror gang and criminal gang associate with they , and the impact that have on community . New Decade , New Approach make a commitment to have 7 , 500 officer , yet the figure be set to fall to about 5 , 700 officer . in the next two year , 850 officer be go to retire . the money be available to recruit only 204 , so the situation will get bad and bad in term of police officer number , which will fall below the commitment make on how many be require in Northern Ireland . we have just have a debate about make sure that we be factually correct in this place . I be quite sure that what the right hon . Gentleman be say be absolutely factually correct . however , do he not recognise that the commitment to increase police number to 7 , 500 that he be talk about be a commitment by the Executive ? would the choice that he have outline not be well serve by an Executive functioning and an Assembly scrutinising ? I know that the Secretary of State be not personally responsible , but he can not wash his hand of the New Decade , New Approach agreement , which be between the party in Northern Ireland and the then Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Skipton and Ripon ( Julian Smith ) . the Executive do not pull this out of the air and say , " we ' re go to do this " ; it be part of the agreement that be make . indeed , I have hear Ministers in this place say time and again , " you ' ve get to get back to the New Decade , New Approach promise and the commitment that be make , " yet this be one of those very commitment , and it be one that will not be meet because the money be not there . the argument that we have hear tonight be : " well , that ' s partly the responsibility of the Executive . if the Executive be up and run , then you could spend the money well . " I have no difficulty with that . only a fool would say there be no saving to be make in a resource budget of £ 14 billion , or that it could not be spend well . anybody who look at their own personal budget will find way of save money and allocate it well to meet their priority , so of course the potential be there . indeed , I know from my time in the executive that we be able to find 3 % saving across Departments , and I be not against what the Minister say — that there be way we could spend money well . we have dodge reform over the year because some of they require difficult decision . that be the responsibility of the Executive , if they be up and run . I could bore the House with lot of example , but in the past our Ministers have show how we have use money in order to use resource well . indeed , we have even look at co - operation with the Republic of Ireland , when it have come to spend money , and at how we could share resource to deal with those kind of issue and make well use of money . our party believe in low taxation and the proper use of the public resource we have , so we be not go to ignore that . but the fact of the matter be that the Executive be not up and run . even if they be up and run , the issue and the problem of public spending in Northern Ireland be so big that the Executive would struggle to make some of the necessary reform . do not forget some of those reform require money to be spend to make the reform , so there be a vicious circle . the Budget be inadequate — that be the first thing we need to look at . the hole in the Budget be so big and the issue around it so difficult that even if we have a perform executive tomorrow , they would not be able to get past those issue . the building of public sector housing have fall by 25 % because of capital cost . there be also difficulty , when it come to the Executive , of pure caution . I know the Minister will talk about how much money have be give to Northern Ireland , but do not forget that we have give back £ 471 million in financial transaction capital , because the rule tie around that require a degree of innovation by civil servant and the Northern Ireland Office that be not always possible . the main outlet for it be housing , and there be only so much that it could absorb . so when it come to take money off the Executive , let we not forget that where money could not be spend , it be return to the Exchequer . sometimes it be frustrating to find that money have be give that could not be spend because we be not be innovative enough . that bring I to the second issue . I know the Minister will say how much money be give to Northern Ireland and how some constituent in the south of England would envy the amount of money that come to Northern Ireland , but there be a mechanism for allocate money within the United Kingdom . at present , the Barnett mechanism work by simply give Northern Ireland a percentage — 3 % . if there be Barnett consequential for Government spending for the whole of the United Kingdom , we get 3 % . however , it be always recognise that across the United Kingdom the circumstance be different . it be first raise in Wales and , as have be point out , there be a great need in some part of the United Kingdom , because of a whole lot of factor that I will go into in a minute , and therefore the 3 % give on a per head basis be not adequate . it need to be top up on a well - establish need basis . because of need in Northern Ireland , it be reckon that for every £ 100 spend in England , £ 125 would need to be spend in Northern Ireland . in other word , it be a 25 % uplift . for example , if the Barnett formula show that Northern Ireland should get 3 % , on the basis that Northern Ireland have 3 % of the UK population , then there should be a 25 % addition — a 0 . 75 % addition to the 3 % — to that . that have not be happen . the Northern Ireland Fiscal Council have work out that have that additional need element be put in this year , then we would have have another £ 323 million . incidentally , that would have plug the gap in public spending . if that be happen right across the United Kingdom and people be say that they be not apply it in Scotland or Wales , then , I suppose , those in Northern Ireland would have no cause for complaint . the truth of the matter be that it be be apply in every other part of the United Kingdom , apart from in Northern Ireland . this be the only budget that be be bring forward where the need be recognise but not reflect in the money allocate . the Secretary of State have argue that if the Assembly be up and run , we could make the case , but we do not need to make the case ; it have already be agree that the formula for Northern Ireland should be another £ 25 on top of every £ 100 spend in England . we do not need to fight over the definition of need , because it have already be establish . the Holtham Commission make that quite clear . I take the point that be make early : I do not want Northern Ireland to become some sort of public sector - dominate economy , which make we totally reliant . I want to see Northern Ireland become self - reliant . I want to see a grow economy ; an economy that be generate taxis , income and revenue , and that do not need to be reliant on have a fight with the Treasury every year about the budget and whether we be get the proper Barnett consequential . the definition of need be already well establish . it be base on demographic figure — the number of people — and deprivation and cost measure , such as the under - 16 dependency ratio , the retire person dependency ratio , the percentage of population claim income - relate benefit , the percentage of population with long - term illness , the proportion of people outside settlement of 10 , 000 people , and so on and so forth . we do not need to fight about how much Northern Ireland be entitle to . we do not need to fight about the measure that determine that need . all we need be a decision that the need should be reflect in the budget allocation in Northern Ireland , just as it be in Scotland and Wales . the Secretary of State argue that , if the Executive be up and run , we could make those argument , but the argument be make . the question be how long do we have to wait for what happen in other part of the United Kingdom to be apply to Northern Ireland . I do not want to interrupt the right hon . Gentleman ' s flow , because I be fascinate by his argument . the point I make be that in Wales , for example , it be £ 1 . 20 for every £ 1 spend in England . however , as much as we be tell by the Welsh Government that there be an old and sicker population in Wales , it do not account for the fact that , in term of education , we have tumble down the Pisa rating . the point that I be make be that it be not just about the quantum . have the right hon . Gentleman any suggestion as to how that money might be spend more effectively in order to achieve the well outcome ? I think the point that I make be an indication of that . it be not just about get money so that we can spend it willy - nilly and not care about how it be spend . it must be spend in the good way possible . if we take education in Northern Ireland , for example , we have five different sector , and in some case a surplus of desk and , therefore , unnecessary school that could be close , amalgamate or whatever . the irony of this — this be where I take issue with some of the decision by the Northern Ireland Executive — be that one of the last act that the Assembly undertake be that , despite the surplus of place in exist school in Northern Ireland , special provision have to be give to open new school that have " Integrated " above the door . this be despite the fact that there be stack of school that do not have " Integrated " above the door , but that be more integrated than some integrate school . that will result in additional pressure on the education budget . I be not so sure that some of the decision make by the Executive on how the money be spend be always the good . there be one in the area of education and in the area of health as well . I know I be go to incur the ire of some of my own colleague , and maybe some other hon . member , by say this , but in Belfast we have four major hospital . four major hospital for a city of — what ? some 300 , 000 people ? be there really not well way of spend that money to ensure proper health provision ? yet we spend it — [ interruption . ] and that be exactly the debate that have to be have . do the right hon . Gentleman acknowledge that the Bengoa report outline how we could tackle that reform and get ourselves to a more sustainable delivery , but that the Assembly have be collapse for , I think , four of the six year since that that report be deliver , and that only way we can deliver those reform , necessary as many of they may be , be in a restore executive ? that be the whole point . minister have have the Bengoa report , as the hon . Lady say , for year . they have never act on it . indeed , some of the health reform that be act on and some of the politically difficult change that be make in Health be make by a DUP Minister . we have give the lead on try to deal with some of the spending issue . however , even with those saving , there be still the issue of fairness , of whether the Budget be sustainable , and of why we be not implement in Northern Ireland the kind of budget reallocation that be implement in other part of the United Kingdom . we will find the issue arise from this budget come back to the Floor of this House time and again , because department be not go to be able to work within the exist budget . furthermore , since the Minister indicate that the Barnett consequential that should be come through will not come through this year because of the overspend in previous year , when it come to the payment of nurse , teacher and so on , there will be great pressure on the budget of various Departments across Northern Ireland . I do not know whether those be reflect in this budget . that be why it must be accept that , until the Government be prepared to look at measure that create the ground for the formation of the Executive again , this issue will rest with the Secretary of State and he will have to take responsibility for it . I think we be really through the look - glass now . it be great to hear real unity from those on these Benches about the problem that exist in Northern Ireland ' s public sector and the budgetary difficulty that we have . it would be a lot well if member of our political party be say it in a different Chamber that have responsibility for bring in budget for the Departments of Northern Ireland , for deal with the health service , the education system , the police service and all those other area of public policy that we need to deal with as a matter of urgency — but I will let that one hang . it be interesting to listen to the Secretary of State , because he have let the cat out of the bag . it be absolutely clear that this Budget be a tactic to put pressure on the DUP , but actually he have swing , miss the DUP and instead hit the most vulnerable people in our society . be it the responsibility of a child with special educational need and disability in a school to get the DUP to go back to work ? be it the responsibility of an elderly patient wait for a hip replacement — remember , one in four people in Northern Ireland be on hospital waiting list — to get the Executive back up and run in Northern Ireland ? no , it be not . this be a callous , cack - handed attempt at political positioning and it clearly be not work . not that long ago , I bring the Secretary of State to watch a football match in Derry . we do not get to watch the whole match because it be interrupt by a bomb scare , but he listen to I — he have no choice , because he be sit right beside I for most of the match — talk about the difficulty in the city and the need for proper investment in drug and alcohol recovery . he be sit in the Ryan McBride Brandywell stadium . Ryan McBride be a wonderful captain of Derry City who sadly die far too young . there be a foundation in his name — the Ryan McBride Foundation — which do fantastic cross - community work with schoolkid in all type of school right across Derry and Strabane , but it have have its funding to deliver those project cut . we be nearly at the point where the Ryan McBride Foundation will not be able to exist if it do not get replacement funding . that be one thing that have result from cut be make to our budget . the Foyle cup will see thousand of young people come to Derry next week to play football — people from all around the world — but it be now under pressure because of cut from these decision . we be actually talk about cut funding for university place . we should be try to expand university place in Northern Ireland . I hear from the Secretary of State and everybody else that skill be the no . 1 issue for turn the economy around , but we be talk about cut away at that as well . we be cut Invest Northern Ireland — the people who be task with bring job to region of Northern Ireland . other , include the shadow Secretary of State , talk eloquently about the issue in our Education Department . we have cut the holiday hunger payment for the most vulnerable kid in our society — that be what we be do . it be absolutely shameful . a number of week ago , I go to see Bunscoil Cholmcille , a school in my constituency . it be a great irish - medium primary school . those kid be be teach in hut with hole in the wall and damp in the cupboard — the place be fall apart . it will have its 40th anniversary next year . it be a wonderful school do great work in our community , but we be teach kid in hut that be fall apart , and rain be get through the roof . we can not even pay our teacher or classroom assistant the wage that they should be entitle to . we have already talk about the massive issue in the psni , and although we be tell that there be £ 32 million extra for it , there be a massive hole in that budget . a police officer be nearly kill a number of month ago because people in Northern Ireland be try to kill police officer , and they would if they could get away with it . and we be tell they : " you have to find cut in that budget as well . " the implementation of the domestic abuse , stalking and people - traffic legislation can not get do because of a lack of funding . our community sector be be absolutely decimated . community group , particularly in the most difficult and disadvantaged area of Northern Ireland , have step into the void during decade of difficult time . they be step into the void where department be not deal with the issue that they have to deal with , but we be go to decimate those group as well . we have talk about health . I hear all the time about transformation in health and the waiting list that we have . we can not do anything about those if we do not put money in up front . yes , we absolutely have to take tough decision , but health need to be properly fund and resource so that we can do that . all the while , there be € 500 million in the shared island unit to fund project in Northern Ireland . the irish Government be invest in Northern Ireland . only two or three week ago , I be able to secure £ 38 million to expand the university at Magee in Derry . we have see support from the Irish Government for the Narrow Water bridge . and lo and behold , the Department of Health in Dublin be fund 250 nursing and midwifery place at a cost of € 10 million . that be only the start of the investment that the Irish Government be make in Northern Ireland . maybe we need to think about that . we do not even sit in D á il É ireann and we be able to bring that kind of money into our community in Northern Ireland . imagine the impact that we would have if 20 % of Teachta í D á la in D á il É ireann come from Northern Ireland . [ interruption . ] I think some people sit not too far away from I have do an awful lot for the cause of irish unity , and I be very grateful to they for it . we hear a lot about the Barnett formula , and it be useful that we discuss how the funding envelope be decide , but it be maybe also worth consider why we need so much underpinning from the British Government . have the economic unit of Northern Ireland ever really work to its full potential ? I would argue that it have not . I think that be a discussion we will have in the come year , and I look forward to have it in a respectful manner . if the Secretary of State be serious about get the DUP to go back to work in Stormont , I will be with he in that endeavour , but it be long past time that a time limit be put on this nonsense . have the discussion , have the debate , work with the government — I be all for all of that — but we need to be back in government , deal with the people ' s problem and the people ' s concern . if that do not happen , we can not have this kind of direct rule by the back door , because the next step in that — people should listen to this — have to be great involvement of the Irish Government in the affair of Northern Ireland . I share the disappointment that we be here today express by the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) , and the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) . we should not have to be here discuss this , although I appreciate that we have already make a decision about the budget and that this be absolutely necessary to enable department to spend . I , too , pay tribute to the civil servant who be have to make very political decision while labour — I hope — under manage Public Money and make sure that they be make proper financial decision . nevertheless , every decision they make on a budget of this nature will cause political repercussion . they have be put in an unenviable position . I rise to speak about a specific element of this budget . I write to the Minister about this , so I hope that when he wind up , the Minister of State will address the matter directly . the Northern Ireland Audit Office be critical : with no Assembly sit and no Executive , it be the only body able to scrutinise spending by public body in Northern Ireland ; it audit 150 public body . of course , without the Assembly sit there be no Public Accounts Committee in Northern Ireland , so the niao be the only body that be able to do that work . it be critical that it do so . we all know the importance of the National Audit Office here in the United Kingdom . it be a much big body , and as the Secretary of State , a former member of the Public Accounts Committee , know , it do invaluable work , not only train minister to manage budget but make sure on behalf of the british taxpayer , through Parliament , that those budget be spend properly . independent of the Executive and appoint independently of the Executive , the Comptroller and Auditor General have the power to investigate , without fear or favour , every area of public spending in England and part of the United Kingdom . the Northern Ireland Audit Office be a much small operation , ably head up by the Comptroller and Auditor General for Northern Ireland , Dorinnia Carville . she , like the UK Comptroller and Auditor General be totally independent of Ministers , of Government Departments and of all the public body that her office audits . the niao have 115 staff — it be a much small version of the UK NAO , which have over 950 staff — and an annual budget in the region of £ 9 million , so it be very small in the context of this budget . about 0 . 06 % of the block grant go to the Northern Ireland Audit Office , but as the Secretary of State know , it have a significant impact . the amount of money save by the national audit body be significant in the grand scheme of thing , so it be disappointing to I that the budget of the Northern Ireland Audit Office have be reduce by £ 515 , 000 . I think that will store up problem for the future . very disappointingly — I be particularly disappointed in the Secretary of State on this point — that reduction be make without any meaningful conversation or agreement with the Comptroller and Auditor General for Northern Ireland , which be a require position . that amount of money will have a substantial impact on the ability of the Northern Ireland Audit Office to deliver its work , and with the only scrutiny that be go on in Northern Ireland be through that audit office , it be really important that that work take place . I also worry greatly that if the Northern Ireland Audit Office be not able to do its work , the pressure on the UK Public Accounts Committee — which I have the privilege of chairing — will be immense . we have already have to examine the implementation of the energy support grant , which come directly through the then Department for Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy and be implement in Northern Ireland through that route . unusually , we find ourselves scrutinise direct spending in Northern Ireland . I be very grateful to the hon . member for Belfast South ( Claire Hanna ) , who be able to guest on our Committee — we feel very strongly that we need at least a voice from Northern Ireland on the Committee to explain what the impact be there — but neither myself nor any member of the Public Accounts Committee desire to have a regular role in scrutinise the work and affair of public body and Departments in Northern Ireland . that be rightfully the role of the Public Accounts Committee of Northern Ireland , which we hope will be up and run again , as we hope that the Assembly and the Executive will be up and run again . I be concerned that the Comptroller and Auditor General for Northern Ireland have no engagement with the Secretary of State or the Northern Ireland Office when arrive at the Budget . only a couple of week ago , she tell the Northern Ireland Affairs Select Committee that her only conversation with the Secretary of State and the Northern Ireland Office be via the Department of Finance , and she only learn of her budget on its publication . she have model various option and put they forward to the Northern Ireland Department of Finance , but when they be in turn put forward to the Secretary of State , he put forward three option , none of which reflect what she have model . there have be no engagement with the Northern Ireland Audit Office . that be a serious constitutional issue — in the middle of a much big constitutional issue , yes , but nevertheless it be very important . if we can not have a strong and independent Comptroller and Auditor General with their own national audit body , properly fund and support , that be a real concern , but the fact that the Northern Ireland Audit Office ' s funding be not properly discuss with it be a really serious matter . it be through this Parliament and the Public Accounts Commission that we decide on the resource that be give to the United Kingdom ' s National Audit Office . it be not at all appropriate that an Executive should control or direct an audit institution ' s access to resource . I can not get my head around why that could have happen , because it be absolutely vital that it do not . I hope the Minister will directly address that point . I will finish by underline the problem that can arise when audit get weak . the Public Accounts Committee , which I chair , have look repeatedly at the challenge of local government audit in England . we have see a dearth of public auditor , which have contribute to late audit opinion : very many council now have not have audit opinion , not just for one year but for two . that have leave councillor , council tax payer , and certain officer of those council blind as to the decision they be make . a number of council have serious financial problem , and for some , that be partly because of this issue . in the past , strong local audit in local government have help to keep council honest , straight and true . I have great respect for local council and councillor — I myself be a councillor before enter this place — but we have see a real , direct impact of that weakness in audit among english council , and we be see that creep tendency with hospital in England , too . we fiddle with this issue at our peril , and in the grand scheme of thing , half a million pound be a lot of money . the Northern Ireland Audit Office will not be able to carry out its work without that money , so I hope the Minister will address that point directly in his response . perhaps he will even commit to go away and look at what the impact will be . could he or the Secretary of State please commit to have a face - to - face conversation with the Comptroller and Auditor General for Northern Ireland ? it be a pleasure to follow the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) because , in fairness , she have add a new and useful level to the debate . Hers be a very worthwhile contribution , so I thank she for participate and hope that she show a renewed and continue vigorous interest in the issue of Northern Ireland . there have be a number of very useful contribution so far in this debate , if we set aside that from the honourable Healy - Rae from Foyle — the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) . we enjoy the hon . member oscillate from a year and a half ago , when he be spend his time cajole , provoke , ridicule and mock my leader and my party at a time when we be raise serious issue , to today , when he be poke , prodding , encourage and say , " just get back to work " , again ignore serious issue and not recognise the sincerity with which we have seek to highlight and the aspiration to address the issue that be frustrate the proper operation of devolution . we have hear from my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , who talk about the imbalance between what be attempt to address the deficiency in democratic accountability on issue agree in Europe and the lack of provision and the danger associate with divergence on Bills bring forward through this place . this week and last , for example , the Postal Packets ( Miscellaneous Amendments ) Regulations 2023 have be but one issue that jar entirely with what the Prime Minister say when the Windsor Framework be publish . we can see clearly how that will treat parcel come to and from Northern Ireland as foreign parcel , and we can see clearly how it up - end the commitment give to the people of Northern Ireland during the Windsor framework process — lest we forget — when the majority of party in Northern Ireland say that there be no problem with the withdrawal agreement and that it should be rigorously implement on the people of Northern Ireland . when the Windsor framework be publish , they say it be a wonderful solution , yet here we be even today , and we can see that the issue leave unresolved will continue to plague and cause difficulty for the share aspiration of restore devolution . I say that at the outset , because it be important to consider again the context of why we be consider this Bill . when we have debate such as this , member will hear criticism , and I will not shy away from that . from my perspective , touch on the principle of this Bill and the reason why we be here today , the Northern Ireland Office have not do enough , the Government have not give enough and the people have have just about enough . when I say that they have not do enough , we should listen to the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) . he and I do not share the same political perspective on these thing , but he highlight accurately that here we be debate a Bill that have not have any pre - legislative scrutiny and that have not be before the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . we be implement and allocate resource to a budget that have not be section 75 screen , and it be have huge and undetermined consequence for the public sector in Northern Ireland and the voluntary sector in Northern Ireland . even if member be willing , and I be not , to forget about they , it be affect the ability of our Government Departments to fulfil their statutory function — to educate child , to care for the elderly , to heal the sick . it be not I say that , but every permanent secretary who have seek to engage with the Northern Ireland Office and have highlight how difficult this process would be . when the Children ' s Law Centre , in the most non - party political way possible , write to I and every other Member of Parliament to highlight just how deficient this process have be , it be amazing to see in the explanatory note that the Bill be be rush through because it be urgent . the write ministerial statement be issue on 27 April , and yet there have be nothing in between , know that the allocation on 27 April be not sufficient , and know at the time that permanent secretary be say they could provide their statutory and core function , never mind extras such as extended school or support for the most vulnerable member of our society . let we not forget that that be a choice that the Northern Ireland Office make . the explanatory note say that there be no pre - legislative scrutiny , no consultation , and no equality screen because the Bill have to be rush , but when will Committee stage be ? we do not know . such a rush , but the Committee have not be schedule . we hear that we be get to the stage when thing be become political . we also hear that there will need to be another Northern Ireland Bill — a Bill that give the Secretary of State the ability to make decision on behalf of permanent secretary . for the last two month , since the write ministerial statement about the allocation , there have be nothing . there have be no consultation on or scrutiny of the Bill , because it have to be rush , but we do not know when its remain stage will be . we now hear that there be need for a third bill — by the way , a Bill specifically to provide the power that the Northern Ireland civil service ask for , but that the Secretary of State choose not to include , in the Northern Ireland Budget Bill that receive Royal Assent on 8 February . the Northern Ireland civil service provide draft provision to the Northern Ireland Office , which refuse to advance they . now we hear that there be need of a third Bill , but we all know that there be very few week of parliamentary time leave before this session conclude . there will be recess in the summer . there be a couple of sit week in September , but there be precious few week leave . the Government be play at this , and the NIO have not give enough . I remember the debate that we have back in January about the Northern Ireland Budget Bill , and I remember the Minister of State respond , " Northern Ireland get £ 1 . 20 where my constituent get just £ 1 . " I remember cry out in the wilderness back in January about the Northern Ireland Fiscal Council , and the difference between what we be allocate and what we need . the only difference now be that more people seem to engage with that argument . the Fiscal Council have revise downwards its figure of how much spend Northern Ireland need to England ' s £ 1 , from £ 1 . 28 to £ 1 . 24 . year on year , financial cycle after financial cycle , there be a deficit in the resource that we get . there be a compound negative impact on the ability to deliver public service in Northern Ireland . New Decade , New Approach be mention . that , and some of the industrial relation issue that arise at the time , be about pay parity . pay for public sector worker in Northern Ireland be not keep up with that for their counterpart in England , Scotland and Wales . parity be achieve in 2020 , yet the rate in Northern Ireland be now grow ever fast apart from those in England , Scotland and Wales . indicate dissent . the Secretary of State shake his head , but he know the figure . in the next financial year , public spending in Northern Ireland will increase by 3 . 6 % ; public spending in England will increase by 6 % . the disparity between what we get and what we need , and between what we get and what other part of the United Kingdom get , continue to grow . that compound the difficulty . some £ 297 million be schedule to be take out of our allocation this year and next . we be suppose to be grateful for the fact that it will not be take out this year , and that the cut will be spread over two year . there be a project overspend this year of £ 500 million , and a deficit of £ 575 million from public pay award . that be £ 1 . 4 billion before we even start . I do not say that to be boring or over - detailed . do I even care whether the Government agree with those figure ? not really , but people who should share our aspiration for a positive return to devolution when the circumstance be right need to recognise that there be nothing positive about the consequence of this budget — nothing positive at all . I be not an Assembly Member , but I suspect precious few will wish to take responsibility for the austerity and cut that this Government have provide . that be why I say that people have just about have enough . they be not unfamiliar in Northern Ireland , despite how frustrating it be , with political discord . they understand the challenge in devolved Government . it be not lose on people , when we have just celebrate 25 year of the Good Friday agreement , that , for 40 % of those 25 year , devolution do not operate . in fact , the majority of the time that it do operate be when the DUP and Sinn F é in be lead it , but the people of Northern Ireland be not unfamiliar with the frustrating circumstance that we find ourselves in . however , they want to hear a bit of realism . when the Chairman of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , who be not with we today , be bat back and forth with I in January on need and the Northern Ireland Fiscal Council , he dismiss those point . in fairness to he , we correspond thereafter — it be not often I praise he , by the way — and he take my initiative . he talk to his colleague and get Committee agreement to hold an inquiry on these financial issue . the evidence session have be useful , highly illuminating and will be in our good interest . that be why I say people want to see realism . they want to see we work together . yes , we will disagree about different method and different way of do thing , but we should recognise that , when there be a core problem , we need to work on the core solution . when there be a deficiency in how we be fund in Northern Ireland , we need to work to address that . when we need more resource simply to stand still — not to provide luxury , but to provide essential service that people need and rely upon in Northern Ireland — we will do that collectively if need be , but the Government should not sit back and wait for some collective ask . they know the fact and they have ignore the fact for month after month . I be delighted to hear the Secretary of State say that they will now engage in the discussion on need . that be a departure from what the Northern Ireland Office have be say for month . it be not a departure for Government in policy term , give what have go through in Wales previously , and it should not all be one - size - fit - all . we need to ensure that we invest not only in the financial aspect of how we deliver for people in Northern Ireland , but in Northern Ireland itself . it be somewhat opportune to follow the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , as before I talk about the role of the UK Government and the real budget crisis that we be face , I have to say that , listen to he , the House would almost get the impression that the DUP be not an actor in the current debacle that we be face and that it be a passive actor or a commentator on the sideline . DUP member talk about frustration , people sit on their hand and nothing move forward . I remind he that we be now more than four month on from the Windsor framework be conclude , and still we have no Executive and Assembly restore . indeed , we be more than 16 month on from the Executive be bring down and still we have no progress be make . I would be the first to recognise that an Executive would not be a silver bullet for our problem — there will still be a major budget crisis whenever an Executive be restore — but have an Executive be fundamental to provide some type of framework , a strategic approach , democratic accountability and transparency and proper scrutiny of what be happen . that allow we to plan ahead . it allow decision to be take on a cross - departmental basis . it allow we to protect area that be crucial for the medium and long term . those be all thing that an Executive can and should be do . in Northern Ireland , the frustration be not over the pace of what be happen and whatever fix await we around the Windsor framework ; it be over the absence of an Executive . the business community — every single business organisation — trade union , the community and voluntary sector , health professional and education sector people be all say that they need an Executive and an assembly back , and the DUP be sit in defiance of that strong message from those people at the coalface . every time they say , " here ' s what the Children ' s Law Centre be say " or , " here ' s what the education sector be say " , they be selectively quote because all of they be say , " get back round the table and work together for the good of the people of Northern Ireland . " there be a real danger here . the DUP , in its own term , be out there to try to save the Union because it believe that the Windsor framework undermine it . that be not my opinion ; that be the DUP ' s analysis of the situation . in try to save the Union , in its own term , it be in danger of kill the Union . it be say , " we need to restore devolution only when there be a solid foundation in place . " through its boycott of the Assembly , it be shake Northern Ireland ' s very foundation to their core . it be in real danger of do real long - term damage not just to its own cause of the Union , but to the social fabric of Northern Ireland — our ability to have a function economy , to have a proper function health service that deliver for people and to have a proper education system . that be what be at stake at present . I urge the DUP to reflect seriously on its current route . I turn to the UK Government . it have to be say that there be a certain air of unreality to what we be discuss today and indeed to the Bill . I recognise that it have fall to the Secretary of State to intervene with both the write ministerial statement and this legislation , but we be not on a viable and sustainable pathway in term of our public service and economy , budget management or governance . something have to give and give very soon . the cut themselves be illogical and counterproductive and they will bring long - term damage . we need to see reform and investment , but what we see be a spiral of cut and a burn platform . Northern Ireland be fall behind on a range of indicator . member regularly highlight problem in the health service across Great Britain , for example , problem with waiting list , access to GPs and access to dentist . Northern Ireland be struggle on every one of those issue and not just a bit more — it be significantly bad . we be fall behind on educational attainment and productivity . whenever we look at the context on the island of Ireland , the contrast be ever stark . life expectancy in the Republic of Ireland be now two year ahead of Northern Ireland ; 20 year ago , it be the other way round . thing like that be happen through this decline . on budget management , we see a major mismatch between what the guidance under the Northern Ireland ( Executive Formation etc ) Act 2022 say and the expectation that the Government be place on civil servant . it be limited and contradictory . the civil service can not initiate new policy and can not tackle area that be statutory responsibility . that mean that non - statutory area have be disproportionately target , with cut on thing such as early intervention and prevention : action that be vital not just to address opportunity for people but to avoid much steep cost downstream that will have to be pick up in due course . those cost may be with we for many year to come thereafter . the Departments can not live within the current control expectation place on they . the Northern Ireland Departments collectively be overspend to the tune of £ 100 million a month . so one of three thing will have to happen over the next few month . we may see the status quo continue , which will lead to a massive overspend by the end of the financial year , which will be kick into next year or subsequent year and become an albatross around Northern Ireland ' s neck for many year to come . alternatively , we may see the Government recognise that this be unsustainable and intervene through a more formal version of direct rule , try to balance the budget over the remainder of the year . that will mean even deep cut because try to manage cut over a six - month window be much more difficult than over 12 month — and do it over 12 month be bad enough . if they go down that route , that will bring major carnage . by far the most benign scenario involve the Government and Northern Ireland party agree on some form of a national package link to a restore Executive . of course , that negotiation would be much well do from the place of a function executive , but whether it be before , after or during that reformation process , that discussion have to happen . I dare say that , from the Government ' s point of view , the prospect or reality of a restore executive will be a precondition for anything move in that regard . I welcome what the Secretary of State have say about the Alliance party ' s proposal . we be talk about a process of stabilisation , which can become a platform for wide transformation . we can not make Northern Ireland sustainable from that burning platform . so we have to invest to save and we need a genuine , multi - year plan . a certain degree of discipline from all the Northern Ireland party over many year will be require to ensure that they abide by a programme for Government , if that be to be deliver . I imagine that there will be a degree of conditionality in what the Government will say in that particular regard . my party be certainly up for those discussion over the next few week . we welcome what the Secretary of State have say today and look forward to engage with he over the next few week in that respect . we also have the governance crisis , which I already touch upon . we need the Executive and Assembly back to provide that coherent structure for manage the situation . with a function executive , we will be in a much well position to have those discussion around not just the financial package but the Barnett formula and address that squeeze . I welcome what the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , say about the Northern Ireland Audit Office . what she say reflect the importance of respect for the independence of that body . I would add that the same point and logic extend to the Northern Ireland public service ombudsman . I concur with what the Scottish National party spokesperson , the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) , say about the Government ' s response to clarify section 75 duty and exactly how they have be take forward in relation to the Budget . although I have perhaps say a few harsh thing , there be a positive future for Northern Ireland if we can get this right . Northern Ireland be a great place , but it need a government to deliver . with a coherent government , and with party genuinely committed to work together , we can push ahead with invest to save . we can see what opportunity lie on the island of Ireland for certain economy of scale . on a purely economic and social level , we can do thing without enter into the wide political and constitutional debate . we can address the cost of division — the duplication that come from run parallel service . we can potentially see the reform of the Barnett formula , which will give we a proper need - base platform from which to proceed . we can invest in prevention and support our community and voluntary sector . over the next few week , there be important decision to be make . if people do not step up and if we do not get this sort , the future of Northern Ireland will be bleak . if we can get it right , the future be hopeful . I want to optimistic about that future . it be deeply regrettable that we find ourselves in this situation once again . sometimes , the Democratic Unionist party get accuse of not want to be in the Stormont and the Executive . to be clear to all member across the House , we be a party of devolution and we want devolution restore in Northern Ireland . we want to take the decision in the Stormont because budget decision be well take there . we know that , while our electorate want we to be back in the Stormont take those decision , they also clearly want we to ensure that cross - community consent be restore in that assembly . that be the message on the doorstep during the local government election . although some will want to ignore that view , we will not . time be a precious commodity . waste time be not something I would indulge in — anyone who know I will know that . there have be a criminal waste of time resolve issue with the protocol and the Windsor framework . those issue could be quickly and easily resolve by the Government . drift be not acceptable anymore . there be no drift when abortion law be force on the people of Northern Ireland . there be no drift just a few week ago when legislation on relationship and sexual education be force on the people of Northern Ireland . there be no drift when Sinn F é in demand on irish language legislation be introduce . when there be will from the Government to do something , they do it very quickly . on a daily basis , economic harm be be cause to the people of Northern Ireland , with the continue placing of a border in the irish sea result in Northern Ireland ' s place in the UK be continually undermine . business and industry be be impact and competitiveness be be undermine , yet there be continue drift on the part of the Government . there be no urgency . often , there be not even a recognition of the problem cause to business by the Windsor framework and the protocol . we hear much from colleague about the idea that the Windsor framework have resolve all the issue . I challenge all member to speak not to the trade body , but to the business that be be impact . speak to the manufacturing industry , speak to the agriculture industry and speak to the horticulturalist in Northern Ireland who be still experience massive problem with the implementation of the protocol and , subsequently , the Windsor framework . what I want to see , on the back of this budget debate , be a change in attitude to address the most fundamental issue that be impact Northern Ireland and keep our Executive down . turn to the Bill , my first point be more general and have be make today several time . we welcome the Government ' s commitment to look at this issue , but my hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) have be to the fore and most effective in press for a review of the Barnett formula . I believe that debate be gain traction — it be become abundantly clear at our weekly Northern Ireland Affairs Committee meeting . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s intervention today , but in truth we be again place a stick plaster over the financial need of Northern Ireland , unlike our Welsh counterpart who enjoy a needs - base financial allocation . we can see clearly that this budget be about short - term financial decision and be not base on the need of the people of Northern Ireland , include the need of the people in my constituency of Upper Bann . we want a restore executive . the hon . Lady use the phrase " enjoy a needs - base allocation " . I would contest that . my concern be the risk that we end up in a spiral , with a kind of top Trumps of deprivation . who be the most deprived ? they get the big sum . do she not agree that there be a risk to attach a purely need - base assessment to allocation ? the reality be that the Barnett formula across the United Kingdom , in all the different nation , be need - base . it be important that we do not just give Northern Ireland an amount of money , but drill down to the actual need . on whether that mean tinker around with what have work and what have not work in Wales , we be more than willing to enter into those conversation , and use the Welsh model as a baseline and improve on it . hopefully , if we can make improvement in Northern Ireland , they can be transport to Wales as well . do my hon . friend agree that a financial allocation make on a purely need basis would provide the resource to start address some of those need ? for example , if there be a high number of people claim unemployment benefit because they have mental health problem , money could go into the health service to deal with those problem and get they into work , or for people unemployed because they do not have skill , the money could be use on technical education to give they the skill so that they could get back into work . the vicious circle that have be speak about could be address by have the resource to deal with that . absolutely . I thank my right hon . friend for his intervention . we want a restore Executive not only to have firm cross - community consensus , but to be able to transform and deliver service effectively . for that , we need financial equipping base on need . as my right hon . friend have indicate , those need be really to the fore . if I think of my constituency , I think of the educational underachievement and the health need . those be the thing we need to drill down into and fund adequately ; if we do not , Northern Ireland will continue to be short - change . the Northern Ireland Office have recently be seek to provoke discussion around revenue - raise measure . there be no question but that we be up for those discussion , but we can not escape the fact that the Treasury ' s contribution to fund public service in Northern Ireland be go down rather than rise . spend up to 2025 , for example , will increase by 6 % in England but only 3 . 6 % in Northern Ireland . I have a specific concern about the impact that the police budget will have on community . the right hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) make a very helpful intervention on that subject : it be a stark reminder that the terrorist threat level in Northern Ireland be severe . in that context , we just can not continue to ignore the concern that the chief constable and the Police Federation have raise in relation to the capability of our police force . despite the commitment in New Decade , New Approach to grow our officer number to 7 , 500 , the stark reality be that we be now on a trajectory towards 6 , 000 , largely because of a failure to prioritise policing in our Province . the truth be that there be a risk of the headcount drop far , unless the Government urgently deliver the financial firepower that local policing be cry out for . in an intervention on my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , the Secretary of State make the point that that be on the Executive , but I would put the ball back into his court : it be an agreement in NDNA . when there be a language issue in NDNA , this Government very quickly help and intervene , yet on the police issue they have not go far enough . the NIO claim to support the excellent work that the PSNI do . it need to back up that claim and actually financially support it . similar challenge exist for health , education and road . time do not permit I to list the challenge that I be see daily in my busy constituency office , so I will draw my remark to a close on the time issue . the time for the Government to act on funding for Northern Ireland be now . the time to act to review the Barnett formula be now . the time to take the necessary step to restore cross - community consensus for devolution be now . it would be wholly unacceptable and utterly reckless if time be allow to pass and we find ourselves pass another budget Bill in this place , as oppose to in Stormont . for the past five year , any budget that we have have have be deliver — sometimes fairly chaotically — here , not in Stormont . for the past decade , we have limp along with one - year allocation and without a new programme for government . public service be at a genuinely precarious point , as colleague have indicate ; I might touch on that point . it have to be point out , as we look at the context of this budget , that those factor be the consequence of two specific pernicious feature of our politic over the past decade . the first be the austerity politic that have be practise by successive conservative Governments and be be foist on the people of Northern Ireland with no visible care for public service , let alone for how we create a well and more sustainable economic future or tackle the chronic challenge that be contribute to the financial drain . the second factor be boycott politic , which be be practise by the DUP right now and have be practise by other in the recent past with , clearly , no real regard for how that affect devolve government and public service , how it gradually wear people down , or how it gradually undermine the belief of the people of Northern Ireland that election matter , devolution work and politic be the way to do thing . at the risk of become a history lesson , may I remind the hon . Lady that between 1982 and 1986 , follow democratic election , the SDLP refuse to take its seat for a single day of the lifetime of that Assembly , at a time when people be die on our street in their thousand ? I be happy to correct the right hon . Gentleman ' s history lesson . that be not a power - share Government , and I remind he that subsequently , in 1998 , the overwhelming majority of the people of Northern Ireland make a different choice . they say , " we want to work together , in our substantial common interest , in devolve institution that put power in the hand of our people from all background and tradition . " that be the choice before we , but unfortunately the Government be choose austerity politic and the DUP be choose boycott politic . the thing that link those two toxic trend be Brexit . when the Government say there be not enough money to spend on public service , it be in large part because , as every forecaster suggest , Brexit have be economically disastrous . it be also a consequence of the disastrous Budget push by the previous Prime Minister . Brexit and the kamikaze Budget be the Government ' s choice , and it be now their choice to inflict this budget on the people of Northern Ireland . when the DUP say it can not take responsibility for its share of govern Northern Ireland , it be because of the DUP ' s choice for a bone - hard , bone - head Brexit . despite all the protestation we now hear about the lack of consensus and the DUP ' s deeply hold concern not be listen to , for many year of the Brexit process the DUP refuse to take on board the advice and pleading of many of we about the consequence of what we be be walk into . that be simply not true . one of the reason why the DUP state very clearly that it can not support a hard border on the island as a result of Brexit be to take account of nationalist concern . if only that have be reciprocate and nationalists have take account of our concern about an irish sea border , we would not be in the situation we be in today . I would be happy to give way in a moment if the right hon . Gentleman want to tell I about any proposal or vote he make in this House with a view to achieve a solution that have the consent and consensus of all the community . I be not a member at the time , but I speak at meeting in this House on a borderless solution be the only outcome without a sense of winner and loser . as I say , this have be about choice . I do not doubt that the DUP ' s concern be sincerely hold but , on the choice to boycott politic , not a single thing be advance by have no government . not a single technical concern about the Northern Ireland protocol or the Windsor framework be address by not have a government . it be a choice , and we want a different choice . we want devolve government base on the common good and Northern Ireland ' s huge economic opportunity , and devolve government in which the sdlp can play a constructive role in opposition . to that end , we have already publish our detailed triple - lock proposal to protect public service from these sharp , short - term cut while create a pathway to much well long - term governance . if the DUP continue to immiserate our politic , and if the Government continue to press ahead with this budget , more fundamental choice will present themselves . the first choice be to reform Stormont ' s Standing Orders to make sure that one party can no long hold up the formation of a Government . and if the DUP insist on create the sense that Northern Ireland , as a unit , can not work , the second choice be to realise the potential of all our people in a new Ireland back in the European Union . especially when people be tell that devolution within the UK be no long available , the sdlp will pursue that aim vigorously and with honour , base on reconciliation and the potential of all our people . that be a big choice about our future , but there be also a here and now that this budget do not serve well . colleague from across the House have highlight some of those impact . on infrastructure , our ability to address climate change , let alone thing such as road safety , be hamper . the psni be face its number fall to their low level , at a time of not just security threat , but increase complexity of the issue it deal with , particularly on mental health . across the economy , region that be do well be do well by lean into their economic potential and their success , but instead we be cut thing such as the art sector and Northern Ireland Screen , and we be cut the budget of Tourism NI and of further and high education . all of these cut undermine all of the flagship strategy about our economic future , particularly 10X . I be not sure where we can start on health and education , and I hope to be able to explore those area in more detail in a Westminster Hall debate next week . school have not be on the pig ' s back at any point that I can remember , but the project shortfall of £ 200 million be catastrophic . one of the many thing not be cover be a much - await pay deal for the most shamefully undervalue part of the workforce , SEN classroom assistant . that could lead to far strike action , which literally hurt the most vulnerable child , include those at Glenveagh School in my constituency , who have already pick up much too much of the slack of the politic . in health , we know that a standstill budget be , in essence , a cut and that we be do nothing . we talk a lot in this House last week about a workforce plan , none of which reach Northern Ireland . the Chairwoman of the Public Accounts Committee rightly highlight cut to the Northern Ireland Audit Office and NIPSO — the Northern Ireland public service ombudsman . those be problematic in practice and in principle , because at many time in the past few year those body , particularly the niao , have provide some of the only scrutiny we have have . they have act as an effective opposition in some case to aspect of Government waste and failure to reform . in practical term , discretionary spending be all but go . even permanent secretary , who , as we know , do not like to dabble too much in the politic , be ask the Secretary of State to resolve that tension for they and ask how they reconcile their statutory duty with the budget they have . I hope that one of the Ministers can clarify the position . if their section 75 duty be always follow , as they say they be , will they clarify whether those section 75 assessment be content with the scale and depth of these cut ? what step have they take to identify and mitigate the impact ? have they receive any advice about an overarch equality assessment ? will the Secretary of State also clarify whether the Government have take into account the long - stand guidance as well as the Equality Commission ' s investigation into failing in the preparation of the 2019 - 20 budget ? what lesson be learn from that ? finally , the UK have be a signatory to the UN convention on the right of the child for at least three decade , so will he clarify what regard they have give to the UN committee ' s recommendation that this budget be withdraw and replace with something that protect the right and need of child ? the budget be unworkable and it be a false economy . it be store up so many problem , both in term of democratic grip in Northern Ireland and in public service . devolution have never be more need . People in Northern Ireland feel that they be part of a political game that they be not play and that be be play on they . I urge all of those with the ability to make these choice to stop practise austerity politic and to stop practise boycott politic , and to do so as soon as possible . in call Jim Shannon , I just want to say : do not forget to leave some time for the wind - up , Jim . may I say what a pleasure it be to speak in this debate ? I be pleased to follow the right hon . and hon . member who have already contribute . my colleague have clearly set out the case so far : there be a problem with the Northern Ireland budget . with respect , the Secretary of State , assist those who wish to force the DUP — the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) refer to this and the tactic of push the DUP — towards an unfit regional government , seek to blame the lack of an Assembly on the difficulty face Northern Ireland . however , the fact as outline by my colleague be abundantly clear : the Government be underfunde Northern Ireland . we be committed to make the Northern Ireland Assembly work . that be not in any doubt ; but what we be also commit to be make sure that we address the Windsor agreement and the Stormont brake , which sideline Unionists . hon . member should not just take my word for that ; they should listen to Bertie Ahern , who have indicate that we can not sideline unionist when it come to find an agreement , and Tony Blair , who have say likewise . if we want an agreement that move forward , do not ignore Unionism ; make Unionists part of the agreement . it seem logical to do that , but sometimes that seem to get lose . I be a very straightforward man , and I always try to be honest and forthright in my dealing . I be someone who believe in speak the truth . I try to biblically speak the truth in love , and sometimes I fail in that , because I be a human being , and that make I fallible . today be go to be another stretch , because the absolutely unfair treatment of Northern Ireland by this Government be difficult to remain calm about . some example of that would include how hard it be for a family in my constituency to look at their 66 - year - old father , who should be look forward to retirement but be crippled , await a hip replacement for the last six year . his health be get bad , and there be still no hip replacement for that gentleman , and there be many like he . it be hard to look at the 41 - year - old cancer sufferer who , because of funding concern , be wait to hear if her treatment plan will be pass , and even more difficult to look at her three young child , who do not understand that their mother ' s treatment come with a price tag — the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) refer to the financial issue and how they affect the Northern Ireland budget . it be hard to speak with young family who know that their child need additional help to achieve their educational and vocational potential , and yet there be no funding for a classroom assistant to keep their child in mainstream education , or for their child to move to a special ability school . we have energetic , hard - work and commit community group , who do so much in my constituency of Strangford — and indeed in everybody ' s constituency , to be fair . it be hard to see tremendous community programme , which be make a difference in community , tear apart by the trouble in Northern Ireland . we have have some focus on paramilitary activity in my constituency and that of the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) over the last period of time , so we know only too well what be happen . those community group be close their door , as funding stop . it be hard to look at all this and know that my own Government understand it , yet be unwilling to do the right thing — the thing that they have rightly do by my Welsh counterpart and their constituent . it be hard to know that constituent in Wrexham and Glamorgan have their need recognise through the Holtham formula , yet Strangford resident be second class . as have be make abundantly clear , the formula be a UK formula , and the UK Government have accept it as such . if they reject it now for Northern Ireland , they would have to reject it for Wales . yet here we be , with an underfunded budget and a Northern Ireland Office that blame the DUP for this issue . the budget be set in this House , as be clear from today ' s proceeding , and that budget be unacceptable , as many speaker — indeed , all of they — have establish . forgive I if I be repeat what other have say , but the penny do not seem to have drop in some quarter . let I be clear , when the argument be make that the only way to sort out the Barnett formula be by return to Stormont , that will not help by itself , because the funding problem be still there and still real . my hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) outline the disparity in the Barnett formula , and indeed the Holtham formula . Wales have what should have be the hard battle . it be the first country to be damage by Barnett , and the Government know that logically , in accept the Holtham formula for Wales , they must also do so for Northern Ireland and Scotland . that be the argument of my hon . friend the Member for Belfast East and my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , and it be my argument as well . Wales win the argument , and it necessarily win it for the rest of the Union . go forward , it matter not who make the point , because the Government have accept the Holtham definition of need . as my right hon . Friend say , if 0 . 7 % of that be make available , there would be £ 322 million of extra money for the Province . let we think what could be do with that in all our constituency . education in my constituency of Strangford could be greatly help . we have be wait for the college in Glastry for some time — the price be about £ 14 million , and the land have be set aside and already purchase by the education authority . that could be build if that £ 322 million be available . the school across Strangford could have a wage increase for their teacher and their classroom assistant . primary school could have the renovation and repair they need . West Winds primary school come to mind as just one of those that have be wait for some time to get necessary renovation and repair . when it come to road , I make this point honestly and clearly , with no disrespect to the manager of the road service in Newtownards , whose budget have not increase by the amount that it should have . there be road across Ards that need urgent resurfacing but that can not be carry out . if the £ 322 million mention in the briefing provide by the Northern Ireland Office be available , Mark Street , Mill Street , Beverley Heights and Beverley Road could be resurface , for example , and that money could make a difference . I continue to represent the interest of the fishing fleet at Portavogie to the council and the Northern Ireland Assembly . the boat in that fleet be , on average , 40 year old . they be not energy efficient , although they could be . grant could make the boat energy efficient or help the fisherman buy new boat , which seem to be happen in Scotland and part of England and Wales . again , that £ 322 million could make that difference . I be minded to think about the police . I be a great believer in community policing , which be under pressure . I know the right hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) will be introduce an Adjournment debate and refer to the importance of police station . in my constituency and across Northern Ireland , the role of community police be critical . they be the eye and ear of the police . they can make police well and improve the method that the workforce use . when I look at what could make a difference to my constituency of Strangford , and the whole of Northern Ireland , I be clear that that £ 322 million that we should be get , but be not , would make a difference and make life well . fact be clear , and I will conclude with that point as I be conscious of the time you have give , Mr Deputy Speaker . the truth have be speak and now we be look for our Government to simply do the right thing by my Strangford constituent , as have be do in every other constituency . stop punish the elderly , the ill and our child , and do what have be do in the rest of this United Kingdom . meet the need of Northern Ireland as an integral part of this United Kingdom , as it be clear we still be . action mean more than word : speak clearly and plainly today . I look to the Minister for his response . on behalf of my constituent in Strangford , and those in the whole of Northern Ireland , speak clearly and plainly today be my ask of the Northern Ireland Office . I thank member from the across the House for participate so fulsomely in the debate . as always in these debate , there have be contribution pack with erudition , with insight into the topic at hand and with frustration about the situation in which politics in Northern Ireland find itself at this time . we have also hear from people who have enter the debate for the first time , so I be grateful to the hon . member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) for , in his word , " tip - toeing " into a debate on Northern Ireland . he do so with aplomb , especially by mention an issue quite innocuously , from his perspective , but tumble into a pointed debate afterwards . that mark a characteristic entrance into debate about Northern Ireland , and I wish he many more go forward . it be clear that we can not keep set budget in this way and that structural problem in Northern Ireland be get bad , in the absence of an Executive . in particular , the health service in Northern Ireland be creak and have the bad waiting list in the United Kingdom . the former Northern Ireland Health Minister , Robin Swann , give evidence to the covid inquiry last week . he highlight the impact that the collapse of power sharing between 2017 and 2020 have on health care . accord to the BBC : " Mr Swann say that the health service suffer from a lack of reform , strategic direction and long - term planning during that political hiatus . " in his view , that " hinder " the pandemic response in Northern Ireland . there be an obvious need for a budget that allow long - term planning than we be debate tonight . the other essential service to which I wish to draw attention be the Police Service of Northern Ireland . police in Northern Ireland face unique challenge . I wish to pay tribute to every officer who keep community safe . last month , the PSNI give evidence to the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee on the impact that the financial pressure will have on the service that it deliver . this be the subject of an intervention from the former Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) , early on in this debate . it be also reference in a speech by the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) . on the headcount , the PSNI say : " last year , we reduce the officer headcount by 300 to 6 , 700 . this year , a further reduction will take we to 6 , 300 . " if this trajectory be maintain , we will see the police service go to below 6 , 000 officer by March 2025 . it be deeply concern that the psni be very far off meet the target of 7 , 500 officer as set out in New Decade , New Approach . from the contribution that we have hear , I be hopeful that all party be keen not only to restore Stormont , but to renew public service . we have hear passionate contribution , particularly around area relate to education . the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) talk about special educational need and the provision of school meal in his constituency . the hon . member for Foyle mention Holiday Hunger , the scheme be cut that he give voice to in this debate . the hon . member for Belfast South ( Claire Hanna ) speak about the impact on special educational need and disability provision in her constituency . we also hear contribution relate to other area of public service that have be impact by the current situation . the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) give voice to business and the voluntary sector , which be something that have be exclude from the debate , and I be grateful to he for do so . moment ago , we hear the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) give voice to the elderly . we also learn in this debate that the hon . member for Foyle and the Secretary of State have be go to football together . that could be an innovation go forward , although I look forward to my invitation , too . Shadow Secretaries of State should surely not be exclude from such sporting event . there be also an important contribution to this debate from the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) . she be most welcome here and we be all , I be sure , very grateful that she stay this late into the evening to give voice to a really important issue — the lack of scrutiny and audit of Northern Ireland financing , particularly in period when the budget be be set from Westminster . I be sure that the Secretary of State will respond accordingly , because she raise , in her word , " a serious constitutional issue " . I welcome the update from the Minister on the revenue - raise measure that the Government have ask Northern Ireland Departments to explore . have advice be receive , and , if it have , how do the Secretary of State plan to act on it ? there be clearly an appetite to put Northern Ireland ' s finance on a more sustainable footing . at the same time , it be hard to see how that happen without an Executive . I urge the Government to make every effort to see power sharing restore , so that local representative can agree a long - term plan with political accountability to their community . I be likewise most grateful to hon . and right hon . member for their contribution this evening . I be most grateful , too , that the House again recognise that a Bill such as this be a responsible , but regrettable , step that we need to take as the UK Government to ensure that the delivery of public service can continue in Northern Ireland . there be no easy decision in the budget for anyone — not for we as the UK Government , not for Northern Ireland civil servant and not for a future executive . we recognise that and we know that those decision will not be go anywhere when an Executive return . it have become apparent to I that I and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State may have be misunderstood on this point , so I want to be perfectly clear : on their return , an Executive will face this stark budget and the difficult decision that follow from it . but we be also perfectly clear that the right people to be take those tough decision be locally elect Northern Ireland Executive Ministers . it should not be the UK Government or civil servant plug the decision - make gap . it be only through the return of Ministers in Northern Ireland that the vital reform that so many hon . member have refer to can begin to take place to put public service on a much more effective , efficient and sustainable basis , fit for the demand and opportunity , and indeed the previous advancement in technology , particularly in medicine , of the 21st century . let no one mistake what be need : reform to the health system , to make the most of decade of improvement in healthcare through specialisation ; reform to drive down the waste that come from a divide education system , perpetuate division that would be unlawful once child move from education into work ; and reform to foreshorten the shocking delay in Northern Ireland ' s justice system and its appalling cost to taxpayer at turn after turn . only through reform and more will the public have the service they need and deserve . what be the prize ? in this debate , if I may say so , we have hear two compete vision for Northern Ireland : a vision of Northern Ireland stand with its hand out to the Republic of Ireland for subsidy , and a vision of Northern Ireland stand with its hand out to Great Britain for subsidy . this Government have a well vision than that . we have a vision for a strong and confident Northern Ireland stand on its own two foot , with a balanced budget , underpin sound public service that have be reform and be effective , and — yes — be properly audit . we want to focus on the great , rich tradition and heritage of Northern Ireland ' s industrial spirit , on the great commerce of Northern Ireland and on Belfast , one of the great industrial city of this great United Kingdom . we want private capital flooding into Northern Ireland . we know that the great people of Northern Ireland be entrepreneur who care about place and community . we know that there be goodwill all around this world for people to invest in Northern Ireland , but they be put off invest by the absence of an Executive . I very much share the vision that the Minister be set out , but , leave aside the language around handout and subsidy , will he at least recognise that to get from a to b the restore Executive will need a partnership with the UK Government to ensure that we can take forward those reform ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point , and I shall come on to it in a moment , but I want there to be no mistake about this , either : as far as I can see from my vantage point , there be a pretty close correlation between poverty and paramilitarism in Northern Ireland . leave a primary school surround by razor wire in Shankill , I be strike by some of the mural I see in that housing estate , commemorate and celebrate people who ought not to be celebrate . if I go to other area of Belfast and elsewhere , there will be mural celebrate the other side . it be time for Northern Ireland to be move on . it be time to lift people out of poverty so that they have a well hope than the commemoration of a past that should never have take place . no more look back to a past that never be ; it be time to look forward to a well future , found on prosperity and sound public finance . call I old school , Mr Speaker , but I like a balanced budget . let we move forward . capital investment for a safe return from investor around the world , the rule of law , good government — the condition be set . we have an entrepreneurial population , great skill , comparative advantage in financial service , cyber - security , advanced manufacturing and more . crucially , we also have an institutional arrangement that , if people would only see it , be unique in all of the world : access to the UK as of right and to the EU as a privilege , UK service law and access to the UK ' s free trade agreement . that be a unique set of institutional arrangement to promote Northern Ireland ' s prosperity for the long run and deliver just the transformation that be need . it be true , as hon . member have indicate in relation to the Windsor framework , that that come at the price of a difficult compromise , with some EU law still in place . I confess it be a difficult compromise for I , as I have say in the past . however , we have to choose from available future . at the moment , Northern Ireland ' s future look bleak indeed unless we get behind the reform that be need to balance the budget for the long run . I believe that if we do that , if we come together in unity for our good purpose for Northern Ireland , we can achieve great thing . on the quantum that be available , the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) and for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) seem to be unite in the idea that the budget be some sort of punishment . the hon . member for Foyle suggest it be a tactic . I say to he that that be categorically not true . this spending envelope be the spending envelope that the Northern Ireland Executive would have face have they not collapse . it be not the case that we would be punish people in the way that have be set out . to listen to the debate — will the Minister give way ? I will , as I refer to the hon . Gentleman . it be not I who suggest that that be a tactic . the Secretary of State outline the tactic in his own speech : he say that the next stage of the Bill will not be introduce until after the summer , and that that would give we all time to work together to get to government . it be clearly a tactic , although it be not go to work as a tactic . there be well tactic in my view , and I have lay some of they out to the Minister before , but it be a bit disingenuous to pretend that this be anything but a pressure point for the DUP that be clearly not work . I say to the hon . Gentleman that the simple fact be that the reason we be not do all stage today be that summer recess approach and we would trigger the Parliament Act inadvertently — [ interruption . ] my right hon . friend the Secretary of State do not accept that this be a tactic . the reality be , as we have say , that this be the spending envelope that would have be face by a return Executive . I have to say that , listen to the debate , one would think that the spending envelope in Northern Ireland be at the discretion of my right hon . friend , but of course , as member know , nothing could be far from the truth . long , dreary document on how spending work be available for the public to read . I be sure that the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) know very well the document to which I refer — I have give they a go . these thing be fix by our right hon . and hon . friend in the Treasury ; it be not at the discretion of I and my right hon . friend to decide how much be spend . this be the envelope that the Executive would have face . the hon . member for Foyle mention the share island initiative , but that large sum of money be agree , I believe , through the North South Ministerial Council and come with a number of caveat . however , he remind I that there be a number of super - tanker at sea here that have evolve through a number of political agreement . I think that we all need to be work with a restore Executive to rationalise how that spending go forward . that can be do only with a restore executive . a review for the Barnett formula be touch on . my right hon . friend say early that we recognise that introduce a needs - base factor in the application of the Barnett formula for Northern Ireland accord to a mechanism similar to that implement in Wales be an option that could be consider to put Northern Ireland ' s public finance on a sustainable footing . however , it take a number of year for the Welsh Government and the Treasury to agree a formula , and my hon . friend the Member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) wisely caution we that that matter be not settle . he also caution we about the dominance of the public sector . that be why I be so firm that Northern Ireland must be found on a revitalisation of its vibrant private sector . let I turn to the funding premium and the comparison between the percentage of funding for Northern Ireland and the equivalent spending for the rest of the UK . let I be really clear because , in listen to the debate , one could misunderstand the position . funding for Northern Ireland will increase from 20 % to 25 % extra in 2024 - 25 . insofar as that funding premium be forecast to fall below 20 % , it be by the early 2030s but not immediately . I be grateful to the hon . member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) for mention revenue - raise measure . we will have full advice by the end of this month . he refer to the remark make by the permanent secretary at the Department of Education . we be very well aware that , to live with its budget , the Department of Education have already take significant step to reduce expenditure . I be aware that , despite that , there be a funding gap . our Department continue to engage with the Department of Education and the Department of Finance to address that . a previous political agreement such as NDNA recognise the structural inefficiency in Northern Ireland ' s educational system , about which Members may perhaps see that I feel passionately , and recommend a review to address they with reform . I welcome the recent completion of the review into special educational need provision , and I look forward to the outcome of the review of education provision for 14 to 19 - year - old . there have be a great deal of interest in the particular detail of per - pupil funding . I propose to write to my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) in detail on education funding . I shall place a copy of that letter in the Library for all member who have express an interest . the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) in particular raise section 75 duty and whether they be carry out by we and so on . as the one take the decision , Northern Ireland Departments complete indicative section 75 assessment that be consider by the Secretary of State when he set the overall budget allocation . in light of those budget total , department be now complete final assessment . I be grateful for that clarification , but however good the intention be , it seem to fall short of full compliance with what be expect under the section 75 procedure . could those indicative assessment be put in the public domain , so that we can start to foster that wide political debate about the budget choice that be now be make ? at the risk of sound like a stuck record , the good way to get those question answer be to get the Executive back and the Executive make these decision — and in its absence ? that bring I on to a point I want to make . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and I sit here throughout the debate listen to a number of member implore we to take one action or another , which would amount to go down the road toward direct rule . we have no plan to go toward direct rule . we have be ask what we will do if this situation continue . in the event that we need to take further step , we will announce they , if the need arise and when the time be right , but we have no plan to go to direct rule , and no amount of press we on one issue or another will cause we to take up direct rule . regard the Windsor framework , yes , there be some technical matter that we might deal with in order to fulfil the policy intent clearly agree by both side . where there be technical issue we need to move forward on , please , let we take they up as technical issue and deal with they in the Joint Committee . let we not again raise such matter up to level that require the attention of the great statesman and woman of Europe . it be well to deal with these thing in a low - key way . with great respect to the Minister , the matter that we want to be address be not matter for the European Union ; they be matter for his Majesty ' s Government . they relate to the internal market of the United Kingdom and its working . either the UK Government be in charge of that , or they be not . when I see the UK Government introduce new statutory instrument to impose custom arrangement on parcel be send from one part of the UK to another , I begin to wonder if the UK Government actually get our concern about the working of the internal market . we certainly do . the right hon . Gentleman and I have walk a long way together over the last seven year . as he well know , I regret that we have have to part way somewhat at this point , but we be clearly aware of his concern , which he articulate with great clarity and force . I hope he will not mind if , at this late hour , I say that I will leave this to my boss , the Secretary of State , and the other party to work through . finally , I think , I turn to the issue of the Northern Ireland Audit Office , which the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) set out in some detail . of course we appreciate the important role play by the niao and other independent body that hold the devolved Government to account , and ensure that public finance be spend properly and effort be make to improve public service . however , when the Secretary of State consider budget allocation , he need to take account of the challenging budget context and reduction face by other Northern Ireland Departments . in such challenging circumstance , we believe it be only right that we ask the non - ministerial Departments and independent body to find saving in the same spirit as the rest of the Northern Ireland Departments . my concern be that it be a disproportionately large cut to a very small budget . it mean that the Comptroller and Auditor General for Northern Ireland can not complete her work programme for this year , and there be nobody else — no Executive , no Public Accounts Committee , no Assembly — that can do that job . let I just check my note to make sure I answer the hon . Lady properly on this point . what we have do be roll forward the budget . the recommendation of the Assembly ' s Audit Committee be make in a different economic and budget context . we maintain that , by roll forward the 2022 - 23 budget allocation to the Northern Ireland Audit Office and other non - ministerial Departments , we have reach a fair outcome . I would be glad to meet the hon . Lady to discuss this matter far , but I think it well that we meet face to face in the first instance . I hope right hon . and hon . member agree that I have try to respond to some of the main point make in the debate . we will write the letter on education funding . we do have a vision for Northern Ireland , which be one of Northern Ireland stand on its own two foot , with a balanced budget and reform , effective and affordable public service ; a Northern Ireland that be prosperous , happy and free , and be not always stand with its hand out to one party or another . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Committee of the whole House ( Order , this day ) . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , International Development that the draft Commonwealth Development Corporation ( Limit on Government Assistance ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 6 June , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Consumer Protection that the draft Consumer Rights Act 2015 ( Enforcement ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 12 June , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . Police Stations Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Robert Largan . ) the hour be late , but we still have an important issue to discuss this evening : police station . in November 2017 , the Mayor of London announce the closure of a substantial list of police station around the capital , include Barnet police station . ever since , I have be campaign to save it . a key justification give for the Mayor ' s decision be that the number of crime report at police station front counter have fall . it be true that the way people report crime have change in recent year — it can , of course , now be do by phone or online — but be able to attend a police station front counter and talk to someone face to face be still an option value by many , especially the elderly or those who may not be comfortable in the digital environment . moreover , police station perform other vital function in addition to front counter service . crucially , they be a place to locate officer , but they also provide facility such as evidence and equipment storage , police vehicle parking , and custody suite and cell . as such , what be even more worrying than the loss of a front counter be the loss of the physical presence of the police in a particular locality . in the six year since Mayor Khan announce the closure of Barnet police station ' s front counter , that police station building have thankfully remain in use by officer , both neighbourhood police and other team . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will . I think you would at least allow the right hon . member to get under way . I call Jim Shannon . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . the right hon . Lady be right to mention community police — it be about not just the building , but the community officer and the contact with their local community . she make a very helpful intervention in the debate on the Northern Ireland budget that refer to that issue . I echo her request to ensure that not only the building , but the community police be there , because it be the eye and ear of the community . it be about make police well . I be sure that the right hon . member , if give time , would have get to that . I absolutely agree that community policing be vital . as I will explore in my speech , the presence of police station be an important part of keep police close to community . if we shut they down or retreat into a handful of building around the capital , we make it more difficult to deliver genuine community police . Closing Barnet police station altogether and sell it off for redevelopment would leave officer with nowhere at all in my constituency from which to operate . that would be disastrous , not least because it could mean ward officer have to undertake long and complex journey to and from the only remain police station in the borough , which be in Colindale . at engagement meeting link with the 2017 closure announcement , I remember City Hall representative indicate that one of the reason police station be now less important be that officer would be give iPads for processing paperwork , which they could use anywhere . frankly , it be wholly unrealistic to expect a police officer sit in Starbucks with an iPad to be an adequate substitute for a function police station . apart from the note reliability problem with many such device issue by the Metropolitan police , that approach would violate confidentiality and datum protection obligation . there be also the concern that a number of the Met ' s it upgrade programme have yet to be fully deliver , as highlight in the Casey report . moreover , officer would undoubtedly be approach by member of the public , make it hard for they to focus on the work they need to do . their office time would inevitably become advice surgery time . in February last year , I secure a promise from Sophie Linden , the deputy mayor for policing , that Barnet police station ' s building would not be dispose of until a base be find for ward police team that enable they to reach their area in 20 minute by walk or cycling . that be of course welcome , and it amount to a partial reprieve for the station , but it be not an adequate substitute for a properly function police station . on this point about the connection with community , particularly in Greater London , do my right hon . friend agree that the basic command unit model that the Mayor have adopt since 2018 be have a negative impact on the ability of police to connect with community , but also to respond to crime in a timely manner ? I be very much aware of the concern feel in many part of London about the tri - borough policing model , and I think it be important to review it . I turn back to the idea that new basis for police officer could be find . there be still real uncertainty about where these would be and what they would involve . the suggestion remain that a new base for police officer could be in a corner of a library or the backroom in a high street shop , but provide a base for police officer be not a straightforward matter . officer have access to highly sensitive personal datum , and they hold evidence from case for which it be vital that they keep rigorous and reliable record of custody . moreover , some police equipment be potentially harmful , such as taser , and it would be dangerous if this kind of kit fall into the wrong hand . special storage facility would need to be build in new alternative accommodation . they could not just set up a few locker in a local library . flog off exist police station could end up be a false economy if multiple new premise for ward team in different area need to be buy and fit up to replace they . I also want to highlight the sense of confidence that the presence of a police station give people — a sense that would be entirely lose in the area where police station be currently under threat . for example , the East London Advertiser report that people feel that police station closure in Tower Hamlets mean that the area feel less safe . complete loss of the remain police presence in Chipping Barnet town centre would inevitably leave my constituent feel more insecure . serious concern have be report to I about crime , theft and antisocial behaviour in Barnet High Street , include what appear to have be a serious assault that take place recently outside McDonald ' s . the sale of the police station and its complete closure would make it hard to grapple with the exist crime issue in the local area . these worry local crime problem be discuss recently at a meeting I attend of the High Barnet police community action panel , under the chairmanship of my constituent Mahender Khari . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to he , and to everyone who chair or take part in police action panel in my constituency . they do a vital job . that include Councillor Jennifer Grocock , who have do excellent and innovative work on make neighbourhood police team more visible by involve they in Barnet Council ' s community safety hub , which be pioneer by the previous conservative administration in Barnet . I be also worried about the impact of police station closure on the viability of our high street . we all know that town centre have suffer in recent year for a range of reason , particularly the big shift to online retail . it have become hard and hard to get footfall to high street , and I fear that lose police station could lead to a further hollowing out of our struggle town centre , add to the list of vacant building . I thank the right hon . member for her speech and for give way . last November , Devon and Cornwall police launch an online poll use SurveyMonkey , and invite the public in Devon and Cornwall to vote to reopen three front desk out of a list of 44 . I be pleased to help promote that poll and to attend the reopening of Tiverton police station — and I hope to attend that of Honiton later this year — but do she think that we should not have to fill in SurveyMonkey poll to get to speak to a human being ? the hon . Member make the important point that much of what we be talk about be the ability of the police to maintain appropriate contact with member of the public . that distance from member of the public be one of the problem that the Met be grapple with , and I think it be useful to hear his point of view about police station and police service elsewhere in the country . during this difficult era for high street , we should try to enhance the visible presence of public service , not scale it back . that be another good reason to maintain the police station estate , both in Barnet and in other town and city . in her report on the Met , Baroness Casey highlight that station closure be likely to have affect efficiency , with police spend more time travel , and long police response time . recent research by Elisa Facchetti , publish by the Centre for Economic Policy Research , point to a correlation between reduction in police station and poor crime clear - up rate . that suggest that the capacity to collect the evidence need to solve crime might be impede by police have to travel increase distance , although I acknowledge that many other variable could be relevant , and it be difficult to establish a clear causative link . four important recent development make this debate very timely , and mean that the Mayor of London should reverse his closure programme . first , the Government have deliver on the conservative manifesto pledge to recruit 20 , 000 additional police officer . that mean that the Met now have more uniformed officer than at any time in its history — and we need somewhere to put they . that radically change the situation we face in 2017 , when the Mayor wield the axe against Barnet police station and other . secondly , Baroness Casey ' s damn report on the Met cite the closure of 124 police station as one of the reason behind what she describe as " erode frontline policing " . she conclude that the combined impact of various efficiency measure , include police station closure , have lead to " a more dispersed and hand - off training experience for new recruit and exist personnel , which give they less sense of belong to the Met … great distance for Response officer and Neighbourhood Policing team to travel " , and " few point of accessible contact for the public " . at a time when culture and conduct at the Met have come under huge scrutiny , we should not persist in make disposal from the police station estate — disposal that be calculate to make officer less connect to one another , more isolated and more distant from the community they serve . my right hon . friend be make a speech that will entirely resonate with my constituent . do she agree that the Mayor ' s u - turn on the closure of the Uxbridge police station , which serve my constituent , as well as those in Uxbridge and South Ruislip , demonstrate that the argument that there be simply no alternative but to press ahead with the closure no long hold water ? do it give she a stirring of hope and optimism that other police station , such as that in Northwood , already close and dispose of by the Mayor , will be replace with operational police station , or that other station close by the Mayor will be reopen forthwith ? I agree entirely . the Mayor ' s u - turn on Uxbridge should be a lifeline for police station across the capital . that be one of the reason why I be delighted to have the opportunity to make this speech . I come to the third reason why the Mayor should change his approach . as part of the big change that he be take forward , the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police , Sir Mark Rowley , have ask his team to carry out a review of the list of police station earmark for closure and sell - off . I have make the case strongly for save Barnet police station in a number of meeting with senior police officer , include Sir Mark . that include at a meeting in May , at which Sir Mark acknowledge how important it be for the police to be close to the community they serve . he also accept that whether physical premise be retain or close inevitably have an impact on whether officer can genuinely be close to the community . I understand that that be one of the reason why the review , expect to report at the end of the summer , be set up . I sincerely hope that it provide a lifeline for Barnet police station and other community experience the same closure threat . that include Sidcup , Notting Hill and Wimbledon . my hon . friend the Members for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) , for Kensington ( Felicity Buchan ) and for Wimbledon ( Stephen Hammond ) have all fight hard for their local police station , as have my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) . until a few day ago , the place where police station be in jeopardy and teeter on the brink of sale and redevelopment include Uxbridge . that bring I to my fourth and final point . Uxbridge be on the same closure list as Barnet in 2017 . when the Mayor announce its shut - down , Conservative Hillingdon Council offer to buy the site at the market rate , and to provide a £ 500 , 000 revenue contribution and a leaseback arrangement , so that the community could keep its police station and the service it provide . at the time , the Mayor reject this plan out of hand . undeterred , Hillingdon Conservatives campaign energetically to save their police station , lead by Councillor Steve Tuckwell , the excellent conservative candidate in the by - election . for year , those effort fall on deaf ear at City Hall , and then there seem to be a Damascene conversion . suddenly , out of the blue , the Mayor announce that he have " write to the Met Commissioner say that the case for now retain more police station site across the capital be strong " . he be yet to specify exactly which police station may escape the axe he threaten they with six year ago , but this look suspiciously like a by - election stunt to take credit for a plan to safeguard the police station put together by Hillingdon Council and Steve Tuckwell . it would be massively cynical if the Mayor ' s u - turn be confine just to Uxbridge . I therefore take this opportunity once again to call on Mayor Khan to remove the threat to Barnet police station and confirm that its future be secure , along with other station under threat around the capital . in conclusion , when the plan to close Barnet police station be first float in 2013 , I fight successfully to stop it . I save our police station back then , and I be do all I can to save it again . I have raise this issue in Parliament many time , include twice at Prime Minister ' s question . the online version of the petition for this issue , which I present to Parliament last year , now have more than 1 , 600 signature . I assure the House and my constituent in Chipping Barnet that I will continue to do all I can to resist the Mayor ' s threat to our local police station so that my constituent be safe and more secure and can have the visible police presence in their local town centre that they rightly believe be so important . let I start by congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) on secure this important debate and for speak with such passion and eloquence on this topic . I agree with her sentiment about how important police station be for our constituency and our local community . I say that have visit Chorley police station just a few day ago , Mr Speaker . as my right hon . Friend say , police station in our local community be close to the people they serve . they help officer stay in touch with the local community and connect to it . their ear and eye be on the ground pick up information , and they can serve local resident . they be also visible and reassure the public that the police be close to where crime may be commit . it show that police be available and accessible , and they can often respond to crime a lot more quickly if they be deploy from a police station close to the local community , rather than one mile and mile away . my right hon . friend set out a whole number of reason why police station as a physical location be so important . in relation to police station in London , I completely agree with my right hon . friend that Mayor Sadiq Khan should look again at the closure plan he set out in 2017 — I think it be for a total of 37 police station — and reverse it . some of those closure have happen already ; other have not . he demonstrate with his rather opportunistic and cynical u - turn on Uxbridge just a few day ago that he could look at this issue again , and he should . we should keep in mind that decision on opening and closing police station be for police and crime commissioner — in London , that be Sadiq Khan — not for the Government . I join my right hon . friend in call on the Mayor to reconsider and reverse the swingeing cut that he announce back in 2017 . it be worth remind ourselves as we make that call that plenty of resource be available . the Metropolitan police have the high funding per capita of any police force in the country by some margin , and that be exclude the national and international capital city grant and the counter - terrorism money they receive . on a straightforward territorial policing basis , the Met get more per capita than any other police force . it receive some £ 3 . 3 billion a year . that figure go up by £ 102 million this compare to last year . it be also worth remind ourselves that the whole police system across the country get £ 17 . 2 billion a year , and the part of that spend by police and crime commissioner on local policing — the vast majority of it — go up by £ 550 million this year compare to last year . so the resource be there , and we expect police and crime commissioner to use they wisely — unlike Mayor Sadiq Khan , who be not do so . this might be a good moment to congratulate my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich West ( Shaun Bailey ) , who be in the Chamber this evening . his tireless campaign have save his local police station in Tipton from the plan cut . I be sure the whole House will want to congratulate he on his successful campaign to overturn a decision originally announce by the police and crime commissioner in the west midland . my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet make excellent point about why police station be so important and why the Met ' s decision should be reverse , one of which be about the extra police officer that we have recruit across England and Wales . across the jurisdiction as a whole , we now have record police number — 149 , 572 to be precise , which be 3 , 500 more than at any other time in the history of policing . the Metropolitan police also have record number — about 35 , 000 more than ever before — and , as she say , they need to be accommodate somewhere . it be worth mention that the Metropolitan police could have have even more officer — an extra 1 , 000 officer — if Mayor Sadiq Khan have use all the money that be available . it be a great shame and a great disappointment to I as a London MP , as I be sure it be to colleague , that he fail to do so . I therefore completely endorse the point my right hon . Friend make about police station in our community . there be some thing that can be do to try to mitigate Sadiq Khan ' s terrible police station closure plan . in my constituency of Croydon South , we have a fire station in Purley — there be no police station in my constituency — and follow some work between the local police and the London Fire Brigade , we have manage to move local patrolling neighbourhood officer into the fire station . they now patrol from the fire station around the neighbouring area , which help a little towards fast response time . it be also more convenient for officer , and they can share information with the firefighter base there . that be helpful , but it be not as good as have a police station . give the lateness of the hour , I will conclude . I thank my right hon . friend again for her tireless campaign to save Barnet police station . the Mayor of London have record level of funding ; I only wish that he would use that fund a little more wisely and reverse his shocking closure plan . I hope the Minister enjoy the Chorley youth zone as well . question put and agree to . House adjourn .