Oral Answers to Questions Environment , Food and Rural Affairs the Secretary of State be ask — Flood Protection Funding what reform he have make to fund for flood protection . what reform he have make to fund for flood protection . Mr Speaker , merry Christmas to you and all your staff . I put on the record my sympathy with everyone affect by water outage in Southampton ; I discuss the matter with the chief executive officer yesterday . we will have a public consultation in the new year on the formula that allocate flood defence funding , to ensure that the challenge face business in rural and coastal community be adequately take into account . protect community from flooding be a top priority , and later today I will have a winter flood preparedness meeting . I thank everyone who will be on duty over the Christmas period . my constituency of Stoke - on - Trent South have many farmer , some of whom be personal friend . on their behalf , I ask the Minister to update the House on the fund that the Government be make available via the farming recovery fund to support farmer impact by last year ' s severe weather . the Government recognise the awful impact that flooding have have on the farming community . we be release £ 60 million via the farming recovery fund to support farmer impact by last year ' s severe weather — £ 10 million more than be plan by the previous Government — and £ 55 . 7 million have be pay out to over 12 , 700 farm business . while the far right and shamefully even some mps in this House be busy deny climate change and try to turn it into the late culture war , people in our community be pay the price . More and more severe flood be devastating people ' s live , as we have see again in recent week , and I be afraid it will only get bad . do the Minister agree that it be an absolute disgrace that the last Government leave our flood defence in the bad state on record , and that fix that have to be a national priority and a key part of prepare for climate change ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the previous Government leave flood defence in a state of disrepair — the bad state on record — leave 60 , 000 home expose . that be why this Government will invest £ 2 . 4 billion into defence over the next two year . in Fylde , a number of new housing development over the year have be construct in flood area where the developer know that the construction site have flood , yet they still sell property without disclose that to buyer , and in some circumstance they have not construct the flood defence requirement — the mitigation on site — to spec . both resident and council have feel powerless to get developer to correct what they should have get right in the first place , and a number of property have flood several time since people purchase they . what plan do the Minister have to give resident and council more power to hold developer to account when they do not properly construct development or disclose information about flooding ? I share the hon . Gentleman ' s upset about the rule on housing and flooding not be implement by the previous Government . we need more sustainable urban drainage in more development , and it be important that it be build into planning application to begin with . if he would like to contact I , I can look into the matter in more detail for he . across Huntingdon , flooding continue to be an issue that impact a huge number of constituent , with flood almost inevitable every time it rain . Alconbury flood group be a lead flood group in the constituency , and Charles Dalleywater have be a drive force in implement flood mitigation measure , such as the recently open alderman ' s retention pond at Sallows farm that be plan by the flood group after funding be provide by Anglian Water , Huntingdonshire district council and Cambridgeshire county council . what funding be available from the Government to facilitate the construction of further retention pond ? I thank all flood action group around the country for do incredible work for their community . that sound like a brilliant example . as I mention , we be invest £ 2 . 4 billion over the next couple of year . I hope to be able to give more detail in the new year . Rural England Prosperity Fund what recent assessment he have make of the potential merit of extend the rural England prosperity fund . Mr Speaker , I wish you and all your staff a happy Christmas , and thank all those who work in our food system for ensure that we be feed every day and that , particularly at this time of the year , so many of our constituent can enjoy a traditional , wonderful british celebration . the autumn Budget on 30 October confirm the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs budget for 2024 - 25 and 2025 - 26 , and funding allocation for individual programme will be determine in the upcoming month through the Department ' s business planning exercise . we will update the House on the rural England prosperity fund in due course . I thank the Minister for that answer . farmer in my constituency of South West Devon have highlight the role that the rural England prosperity fund could play in the economic growth of our community . give the publication of the english devolution White Paper this week , what conversation have the Minister have with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government about how funding , such as the rural England prosperity fund , can ensure that devolution be a success for the countryside ? we be in constant dialogue with our MHCLG colleague . I be delighted that area with a significant rural population will on average receive about a 5 % increase in their core spending power . that be a real - term increase . I hope we can continue to work well to address the rural productivity gap of some 18 % , which be a real challenge for all of we . budget : family Farms what assessment he have make of the impact of the autumn Budget 2024 on family farm . may I take this opportunity to wish a very merry Christmas to you , Mr Speaker , and to the hard - work House staff ? the Government have commit £ 5 billion to the agricultural budget over the next two year . that be the big budget for sustainable food production and nature recovery in our history . we be also invest £ 60 million into the farming recovery fund to support farmer affect by unprecedented extreme wet weather last winter . we understand concern about change to agricultural property relief , but the majority of those who inherit farmland after a death and claim relief will not be affect by the change . have the right hon . Gentleman see the late research , which show that 75 % of commercial farm will exceed the £ 1 million threshold and therefore will become liable for inheritance tax ? just to give he one example , a family in West Hanningfield in my constituency who have farm for five generation say that they face a potential inheritance tax bill of £ 1 . 5 million . they say that it will put an end to all that have go before and end the aspiration of their family . I plead with the Government to look at this again . of course we hear the concern , but I say to the right hon . Gentleman that in the last year for which we have actual claim datum available , over 75 % of claimant would not be affect . of course , most farm , like every other business , can do succession planning in the usual way so they do not have to pay any more than they need to . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . our hard - work farmer across Calder Valley want to earn a living from farming , not use their land to avoid tax . after 14 year of neglect by the last government , which undercut farmer in trade deal , the sector be , however , become increasingly unprofitable . I welcome the Labour Government ' s new deal for farmer and the 25 - year road map to make farming profitable again . can the Secretary of State assure I that Calder Valley farmer will get their fair share in this new deal and in the new improve countryside stewardship high - tier scheme next year ? my hon . friend will be aware that the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , and the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , keep tell farmer that they be not in it for the money . we know that they be . they be business that need to make a profit , and our new deal for farmer , which include increase supply chain fairness , be intend to make farm profitable and successful for the future in the way they be not under the previous Government . I call the shadow Minister . the autumn Budget put family farm in jeopardy . those farm also need biosecurity to protect their future . with avian influenza spread , bluetongue still with we and african swine fever at our doorstep in Europe , biosecurity be national security . central to that be the Animal and Plant Health Agency , whose headquarters in Weybridge need a £ 2 . 8 billion redevelopment to protect farming and animal , plant and public health . the Conservative Government rightly start that work with £ 1 . 2 billion commit in 2020 . I note that Labour have commit £ 200 million to support that transformation , but that will not touch the side . will the Secretary of State confirm that the Government will complete the project in full , as the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs call for in opposition , and commit the remain £ 1 . 4 billion to protect our nation ' s biosecurity and prevent an animal disease outbreak catastrophe ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , who raise an important point . however , I find it a little ironic that Conservative Members be call for this Government to commit to spending that their Government never commit to . the Weybridge biosecurity facility be so dilapidated that it face obsolescence by the early 2030 — that be the legacy that the Conservatives leave . the £ 208 million that we have commit will start the process of improve those facility , and through the spending review phase come forward , we will consider how we can commit further funding to ensure biosecurity for farmer , which the conservative absolutely fail to do . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Merry Christmas to you , Mr Speaker , and to all here and beyond . farmer in my community and across the country be genuinely devastate by the Government ' s family farm tax , which will affect many in my patch who be on less than the minimum wage , and by the 76 % cut in the basic payment next year . perhaps what dismays farmer across our country and in Westmorland even more be that the overall agricultural policy of this Government and their conservative predecessor be to actively disincentivise farmer from produce food , despite the fact that this country produce only 55 % of the food we need . that be a dereliction of duty by both main party , and a threat to national security . what plan do the Secretary of State have to change his policy and back our farmer to produce food ? the hon . Gentleman raise a number of important point . I will repeat my early comment about agricultural property relief : the last year for which we have datum available show that the vast majority of claimant will not pay anything . unlike the previous Government , who think that farmer be not in it for the money , we want they to succeed , so we be embark on a farming road map and a new deal for farming that will consider supply chain fairness and stop farmer be undercut in trade deal such as the one the Conservatives agree with Australia and New Zealand . our intention be to make farming profitable for the future ; the Conservatives ' record be the 12 , 000 farming business that go bust . per - and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances whether he have make an assessment of the potential merit of put the Drinking Water Inspectorate ' s guidance on per - and polyfluoroalkyl substance on a statutory footing . I thank the hon . Lady for raise this important issue . the Drinking Water Inspectorate require water company to monitor , assess and report on the risk from PFAS . we be aware of concern relate to that , and official be work on it . happy Christmas , Mr Speaker . I thank the Minister for her answer and for offer I a meeting on this topic early this week — I look forward to pursue it with she . give the wealth of authoritative evidence on the harmful impact on human health of PFAS in our drinking water , and that Scotland , the European Union and the United States have all put PFAS guidance on a statutory footing , why do this Government appear to have no plan to do the same for England and Wales ? will the Minister consider amend the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill to that end ? as I have mention , this be an important issue , and I look forward to discuss it in more detail . work to assess the risk of PFAS , and to inform policy and regulatory approach — include ban or highly restrict certain chemical and addressing issue cause by their historical use — be continue . the nature of PFAS chemical and their persistence once in the environment mean that there be no quick fix , but this be a global challenge . innovation in suitable PFAS alternative be need , and we be work to harness industry leadership in the transition away from PFAS . I assure the hon . Lady that work on this issue be ongoing . hunt Trophy Import Ban what his plan timetable be for the introduction of legislation to ban import of hunt trophy . may I wish you , Mr Speaker , all the staff of the House , and all those in our public service who will be work over the weekend a very merry Christmas and a safe and successful new year ? the UK have a long history of champion the global conservation of endanger specie . we be in the process of extend the Ivory Act 2018 to include four further specie — hippopotamus , killer whale , narwhal and sperm whale — in addition to elephant . the Government have also commit to ban the import of hunt trophy . we be consider the most effective way to do so . it have be 10 year since the senseless killing of Cecil the lion . it be still legal to import hunt trophy into this country . there have for a long time be cross - party support for ban trophy hunting . in 2023 , the Labour party ask the then Conservative Government , " what be stop you bring in legislation ? stop the dither and delay . " why be this Government still dither and delay ? with the great of respect , the hon . Lady ' s party be in government for five year , and the conservative party be in government for 14 year . it be always good after five month in office to be criticise for previous failure . I agree with the hon . Lady that the Conservatives can not be trust on animal welfare . they fail to pass the hunt Trophies ( Import Prohibition ) Bill , which would have stop selfish hunter who slaughter and display endangered animal ' body part for their own perverse self - gratification , and they drop the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , which would have end puppy smuggling , puppy farming and pet theft . as I say , we be look for a suitable legislative vehicle , and we will do it in Government time . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . this time of year bring festive cheer , but it also bring the boxing day hunt . alongside many of my constituent , I be keen to see an end to the smoke - screen that be trail hunting . follow the last Labour Government ' s historic foxhunting ban , will the Minister confirm this Labour Government ' s commitment to ban trail hunting once and for all ? we have indeed commit to a ban on trail hunting , which will provide significant protection to wild animal , include fox and hare . work to determine the good approach for do so be ongoing , and further announcement will be make in due course . pollution of Waterways what progress he have make on reduce pollution in waterway . the public be sick and tired of the scandal of sewage pollute our river , lake and sea . that be why we be take immediate action to place water company under special measure through a new Bill that will give the regulator the power to ban the payment of undeserved bonus for pollute water company and bring criminal charge against persistent lawbreaker . we be also carry out the big review of the water sector since privatisation to shape further legislation that will transform how our water system work and clean up our river , lake and sea for good . last year , there be 3 , 366 hour of sewage dump into the river and stream of Altrincham and Sale West , leave Sinderland brook , the Bollin and other waterway in a terrible condition . will the Secretary of State outline far how the Government ' s Water ( Special Measures ) Bill will ensure the end of sewage dump into the river and stream of my constituency for good ? I congratulate my hon . friend on be such a champion for clean river in his constituency . as I say , the Bill will ban the payment of undeserved bonus to water executive who be responsible for this kind of pollution , and will ensure instead that money be spend where it should always have be spend : on fix the infrastructure , so that we can stop once and for all the kind of sewage scandal that be create the river pollution his constituent be so aghast to see on their doorstep . Merry Christmas to you and your staff , Mr Speaker . I declare an interest as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on water pollution . while I welcome the limited measure that the Government be take to tackle pollution from the water industry , there be an elephant in the room , because agricultural pollution be just as important a source of pollution in our river , lake and sea . what will the Secretary of State do to tackle the problem of agricultural pollution with the same degree of urgency and focus , and how will he support farmer — who themselves stand ready to take action to tackle this problem — by provide the funding , support and clear regulatory enforcement that be need for a level playing field ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise such an important issue , and I recognise that over 40 % of pollution in our waterway come from agricultural run - off . Sir Jon Cunliffe and the commission he be lead will look at all source of pollution into our water . the budget for more sustainable form of agriculture that we have commit to will seek to reduce the use of fertiliser , so that there be less run - off into our water . the farming road map that we be work on with the farming community be also intend to reduce the amount of run - off from agriculture into our waterway , and we be look at move to a whole catchment - base model . we be look at all source of pollution into water so that we can clean up all of our river , lake and sea , from whatever source the pollution come . I call the shadow Minister . thank you , Mr Speaker . I take this opportunity to wish you and all in the House a very merry Christmas . many customer be rightly concerned about Thames Water and the situation that company find itself in . for the third time of ask the Secretary of State in this Chamber , will he confirm that he will not issue any regulatory easement to Thames Water in his discussion with that company , so that its environmental obligation and service commitment to its customer will not be reduce ? the Government continue to monitor very closely what be happen in Thames Water , and indeed in all the other water company . the only easement I have ever see give to water company over pollution be that of the previous Government , who turn a blind eye as sewage be flood through our river , lake and sea . this government be put the water company under tough regulatory special measure — measure that the previous Government could have enact , but fail to enact . electronic Waste what progress he have make on reduce electronic waste . as my hon . friend know , each week 8 million vape — such as single - use , pod and big puff — be throw away or recycle incorrectly , which be 13 vape a second . that be why we have already ban single - use vape and create 10 , 000 extra vape recycling point in store . we will ensure that online marketplace and vape producer pay their share of electronic recycling cost in order to avoid the fire , which we know be so devastating . Mr Speaker , I wish you and your team a very happy Christmas . I thank the Minister for her reply . we be all keen to increase recycling , but too often the opportunity for recycle electronic waste be very limited , mean that it go into mainstream waste , lead to increase pollution and hazard . we be see an increase number of bin fire start with vape , which , as she have highlight , be a particular problem . will the Government consider what opportunity there be to work with local authority to increase recycling opportunity and , in particular , to ensure that the public be aware of the downside of not dispose of electronic waste properly ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . my own city council in Coventry have introduce small electrical item take - back point in its library , which be an example of an excellent council innovating . I recently visit the Currys recycling plant in Newark , which show the importance of recycle electrical to ensure that the gift of Christmas past can be conserve and use for many christmas to come . more importantly , last - minute Christmas shopper will get £ 5 off a new product — I hear that air fryer be very popular . Mr Speaker , I wish you and all a merry Christmas . we know that electronic and similar good in landfill can leach into our waterway and affect water quality . will Ministers reintroduce water restoration funding , as part of the package of measure they be talk about early , so that the River Tone and bathing station elsewhere across the country can benefit from clean water ? our policy be certainly intend to tackle fly - tipping and stop persistent organic pollutant enter the environment , but I will have to consult the Minister for water , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , before answer on that detailed point . river Dredging what step his Department be take to improve the dredging of river . dredging can be a useful option for manage flood risk , usually as part of a wide approach , where it be technically effective , cost - effective and do not significantly increase flood risk for other . of course , we need to adopt the good solution for each place . I wish a merry Christmas to one and all . my constituent in Boston and Skegness be very concerned that the Environment Agency be unable to properly maintain riverbank and properly dredge river in order to protect home and livelihood because of the very demanding requirement of Natural England regard the protection of badger and water vole , which mean that the priority be wrong . will the Minister meet I and senior people at the Environment Agency to ensure that we get these priority correct ? dredging use to be commonplace , but some evidence show that it can speed up flow and potentially increase the risk of flood downstream . there be currently no plan for any further dredging in Boston and Skegness , but I be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman and the EA area manager to discuss this far . high - grade Agricultural Land what assessment he have make with Cabinet colleague of the potential merit of safeguard high - grade agricultural land . we all know that food security be national security , and most of we also recognise that the impact of climate change and nature loss pose a significant risk to domestic production , so it be very important that we use our land carefully . consequently , the Government will be introduce a land use framework to ensure that we protect our most productive agricultural land . high - grade agricultural land in Mid Bedfordshire have be farm for generation , and it be critical for our food security and our freedom , but it be under extreme pressure . we have talk this morning about climate change and flooding , and also about the Government ' s family farm tax . what have not be mention so much be urban sprawl , which be a major threat to high - grade agricultural land . we live in an uncertain world and we need our country to feed itself . consider the threat , will the Minister guarantee that high - grade agricultural land will be protect by this Government ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point and refer he to my early comment : we see more and more pressure , and there be so many thing we need to do on our land to house and feed people , so it be important that we have a proper structure in place . it be widely acknowledge that the current planning system do not necessarily do that . the previous Government promise a land use framework ; we will actually deliver it . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . I share customer ' anger about the water bill rise announce by Ofwat this morning . customer have be leave to pay the price of conservative failure after the previous Government let company spend million of pound on bonus and shareholder payout instead of invest in our crumble sewerage infrastructure — if you find crack in your house and do nothing about it for over a decade , the problem get bad and the cost of fix it escalate , and that be exactly what have happen to our sewerage system . we have introduce the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill to curb unjustified bonus . money earmark for investment will be ringfence so that it can be spend only on infrastructure , rather than bonus and shareholder payout , as happen under the Conservatives . I have appoint Sir Jon Cunliffe to lead a commission into the regulation of the water industry so that the failure that lead to today ' s bill rise can never happen again . this government will end the Tory sewage scandal once and for all . recent investigation have show that a lack of investment in drainage infrastructure have contribute to significant flooding in Uxbridge and South Ruislip . how will water company include Thames Water be hold to account where their lack of investment blight community through repeat flooding ? the Government of course recognise the importance of and need for a robust drainage system , but my hon . friend will be aware that the previous Government fail to ensure adequate investment to maintain and upgrade it . water company have a duty to ensure that the area they serve be effectively drain . this include drainage of surface water from the land around building as well as the provision of sewer . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I wish a merry Christmas to everyone in the House , and also to everyone in our farming , food , hospitality and water sector . but not everyone will be able to celebrate Christmas . in recent week , a farmer take himself off to a remote part of his farm and kill himself . the message he leave his family , who wish to remain anonymous , be that he do this because he fear become a financial burden to his family because of change to inheritance tax . this be the human cost of the figure that the Secretary of State provide so casually . what do the Secretary of State say to that grieve family ? I extend my heartfelt sympathy to that family , but I think it be irresponsible in the extreme to seek to weaponise a personal tragedy of that kind in this way . where there be mental ill health , there need to be support for that , and this Government be invest in it . the right hon . Lady know from the last year for which data be available that the vast majority of claimant will pay absolutely nothing follow the change to agricultural property relief . how heartless and how extraordinary that the Secretary of State be more discomfited by be present with the fact of the consequence of his policy than the reality of what this policy ensure . I be a Minister for seven and a half year , and I have never see a policy have the consequence that this one have . [ interruption . ] member of the public will see Labour Members react in that way because I have dare to present they with the fact . we know that there be a tragically high suicide rate among the farming community . the National Farmers Union give evidence about this , and the Secretary of State have be tell repeatedly . will he collect datum on a monthly basis of suicide from farmer , farming family , landowner and family business , so that we , the House and the outside community can understand the human cost of this tax policy before it come into force ? mental health service be the responsibility of the national health service , and the former Health Secretary , who break the NHS , be in no position to lecture anybody about public service . she be no friend of the health service and mental health service , and she be no friend of farming . some 12 , 000 farm go bust on the Conservatives ' watch . they fail to get £ 300 million out the door and into the pocket and bank account of farmer , and they sign a trade deal with Australia that undercut british farmer on environmental and welfare standard . I hear the posturing , but it be this Government who be stand up for farming . I recently meet farmer in the northern parish of my constituency , and they tell I about the urgent need for improved water management to protect farmland . they want to establish an internal drainage board for flood management , but they can not take action to set it up until the necessary statutory instrument be in place . give the importance of establish an IDB in my area , will the Minister commit to work with I and stakeholder to reduce flood risk , and will she outline when the statutory instrument for an IDB in my area might be put before the House ? I would be delighted to work with my hon . friend on this important issue . the Association of Drainage Authorities be on the flood resilience taskforce , and the statutory instrument will be lay as soon as parliamentary time allow . a farmer in my constituency tell I that even in a good year he be lucky to see much beyond £ 20 , 000 in profit . with margin as wafer thin as that , regular farming barely qualify as investable at all . the risk of lose a huge slice of that farm to inheritance tax at random interval would not only go to put this generation out of business , but go a long way towards ensure that they can never be replace . do the Minister agree that this measure — order . we need to get our act together . this be the short set of topical question and I will not be able to get many member in . we have to remember what topical be always about . I hope you have get the gist of the question , Minister . the point that farmer need to get a well return from their business be well make , and that be exactly what this Government will be address . Merry Christmas to you , Mr Speaker , and to your team and to colleague across the House . my constituent have long feel the impact of flooding , and many resident have be isolate in rural area after a storm . I have recently produce a flooding report . will the Minister meet I to discuss it , so that I can support the work of the Department ? there be a very easy and short answer to that : I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend . North Cornwall have world - class beach and river , but Santa swim have be cancel due to the constant dumping of raw sewage . meanwhile , water company receive million from bill payer , but then the very next day , they give it away to their shareholder . do the Secretary of State agree that the good gift he could give my constituent this Christmas would be a total ban on water bill rise until South West Water boss finally end this scandal ? the hon . Gentleman be right to point to the scandalous situation that the previous Government leave our waterway in , with record level of pollution and raw sewage filthye our river , lake and sea . I have appoint Sir Jon Cunliffe to lead a commission to review governance and regulation so that we can stop it ever happen again . I welcome the landmark £ 5 billion agriculture budget announce in the Budget , which be the big - ever budget for sustainable farming . my farmer in North Northumberland desperately need that money . in that context , what more can the Secretary of State do to push for his Department to get that money out the door in a way that the previous Government do not ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be extraordinary , be it not , that the last Government manage not to spend £ 300 million of the farm budget . we be determined to ensure that we do well . I wish he and his farmer a very merry Christmas . in my constituency we have an incinerator that regularly breach its air pollution limit , but the Environment Agency do nothing about it . will the Government tell we what they be do to give the EA tooth ? incineration permit breach be a matter for the regulator , the Environment Agency , but we be review energy - from - waste capacity across the country and will be make a statement imminently . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker , and happy Hanukkah to those who be observe . what action be this Government take to promote the purchasing of British - grow and seasonal produce through their public procurement framework ? we be absolutely determined to ensure that we see more british produce buy across our public sector . we will come to the House with our plan in due course . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . it would be helpful if the Secretary of State encourage Sir Jon to engage with parliamentarian across the House . the necessary change that he have outline will take time , however . the truth of the matter be that if those who currently have responsibility be to change their culture and focus on outcome for customer , rather than their own internal process , we might see early improvement . there will be an opportunity for member to engage with Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s commission in January , and I be sure that the right hon . member ' s Committee will want to do precisely that . the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which be go through Parliament right now , be intend to make quick change to the system . Sir Jon ' s review will give we the chance to reform regulation and governance for the long term . I recently meet the Alde and Ore Estuary Trust , which have long be campaign and fundraise to refurbish and secure flood defence on the Alde and Ore estuary . will the Minister meet I to discuss the trust ' s project and the barrier to progress ? each time I come here for question , I promise that I will not arrange to meet as many member , and each time I fail . I would of course be happy to meet my hon . friend . last year I visit the Game and Wildlife Conservation Trust ' s Allerton project in Loddington . may I commend the contribution that it can make to define sustainable intensification of agricultural food production ? perhaps it would be a suitable place for a DEFRA ministerial away day early in the new year , to help with the use strategy . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his suggestion . I be a great admirer of the Allerton project and have be mean to visit it for a long time . my official be work on a visit , and I be really look forward to engage with those people , because they do great work . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . presumably it be relate to the question . it be relate to the question we just have . thank you for grant the point of order , Mr Speaker . at 7 o ' clock this morning , entirely foreseeably , Ofwat announce bill rise of 36 % for water bill payer around the country , which be an increase 14 time large than current inflation . we know that a large proportion of that rise will be spend on pay off the debt of water company : a debt incur simply by pay dividend that be unearned and bonus that be undeserved . be it in order for the Government to have know that be come but not to have come to the House to make a statement , which would have allow we to hold they to account for their failure to ensure that Ofwat have the tooth it need to hold the water company to account ? I thank the hon . member for his point of order . I have receive no notification from the Government of such a statement , but he have certainly put his point on the record and I be sure that it will have be hear by those on the Treasury Bench . Solicitor General the Solicitor General be ask — Knife Offences what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on prosecute knife offence . what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on prosecute knife offence . what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on prosecute knife offence . Mr Speaker , I will start by take this opportunity to wish you , your team and member across the House a very merry Christmas . every single victim of knife crime be one too many , and this Christmas there will be some constituent , include my own , face the heartbreaking reality of a love one who be no long with they due to knife crime . that be why , as part of our plan for change , the Government be 100 % committed to tackle knife crime . I welcome the Solicitor General to the Front Bench . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . I have have report of people carry machete in Livingstone Walk , an area in Grovehill , Hemel Hempstead , with the Dacorum local crime unit investigate one incident of allege robbery at knifepoint . Knife crime be not our only issue in Hemel ; we have the high rate of antisocial behaviour in the county , and we be the most dangerous town in Hertfordshire . that be a direct result of conservative Governments take 20 , 000 police off our street nationwide , remove 60p out of every pound from local authority budget and fail to act on antisocial behaviour . what further step be the Solicitor General take to ensure that violent thug be not allow to run riot and be bring to justice ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this important matter . Knife - enable robbery surge under the previous Government , which be why the Home Secretary have make tackle these offence an urgent priority . enforcement be key , and that be why we be put police back on the beat with a name officer for every neighbourhood . I commend the Government for act swiftly to ban ninja sword , seize zombie - style knife and crack down on the illegal online sale of these weapon . it will reassure community such as mine in Ilford South , which sadly know all too well the deadly effect of these weapon , with a number of heinous attack this year where teenager lose their life . what be the Government do to support the victim of knife crime and their family ? my hon . friend make a powerful point . many of our constituent will have go through the same pain as his . that be why we be take strong action on knife crime , ban lethal weapon and work to ensure that dangerous blade do not end up in the wrong hand . this September , it become illegal to possess zombie - style knife and machete , and we be bring forward legislation to ban the ninja sword to which he refer . Merry Christmas to you and the team , Mr Speaker . a couple of week ago , people in West Bromwich be meet with the terrify sight of young people wear balaclavas and wield machete run around the town centre in broad daylight . it be a shocking , dangerous incident that have put people off go into the town centre . what be the Solicitor General do to work with other Ministers to crack down on these zombie - style knife and ensure our town centre be safe ? I be very sorry to hear about that shocking incident in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and she be right to raise it in this House . these kind of weapon have absolutely no place on our street . that be why this Government take quick action to ensure it be illegal to possess machete . I hope and expect that there will be timely prosecution in this case . I congratulate the Solicitor General on take up her position . as a former trauma surgeon , I have see at first hand the devastating effect of knife and other serious violent crime , so I welcome the Government ' s specific commitment to halve knife crime within a decade . however , on the broad commitment on serious violent crime , no specific have be provide to date . will the Solicitor General tell the House which crime be to be include , and the date by which that will be achieve ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that knife crime be still too high — more than 50 , 000 instance in the year to June 2024 . he be also right to highlight that this Government be take strong action to combat knife crime . we know that effective local policing be vital to tackle knife crime , which be why we be put 13 , 000 more police and police community support officer on our street , because we be determined to make our street safe . the Home Secretary have also commission a rapid review to understand how these weapon be sell online and deliver to under - 18 and identify gap in legislation and the most effective way to stop this . last month , Thames Valley police ' s Wokingham neighbourhood team attend Bohunt school in Arborfield , where they present to young people the danger of carry knife . early intervention be key to deter child from violence , and police officer play a crucial role in that . what conversation have the Solicitor General have with her Home Office colleague on the link between police officer number and effective recording of the prevention of knife crime ? have the Solicitor General express concern to her colleague about the potential decrease in the number of Thames Valley police officer ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight these issue in this House . key to prevention and early intervention be our programme of young future hub and prevention partnership . our young future hub will bring together service to improve the way that young people can access the support they need , and our prevention partnership will proactively identify the young people most at risk and map youth service provision to ensure there be a clear understanding of the support available in each area . Mr Speaker , I wish you and your team a merry Christmas and a happy new year . I thank you for all your kindness to everyone in this House in the past year . I wish the Solicitor General all the good in her new role . I share hon . member ' concern about knife crime , which be truly horrific . the impact it have on family be great . I have a specific question , so I be happy to receive a write answer . how many under - 18 across the United Kingdom in the past 12 month have be : ( a ) caution ; ( b ) charge ; and ( c ) convict of knife crime offence ? good luck with that one ! I be grateful to the hon . member for his question . he will appreciate that I do not have those statistic to hand , but I be more than happy to write to he . Rural Crime what step she be take to help ensure increase prosecution rate for rural crime . what step she be take to help ensure increase prosecution rate for rural crime . reliable and effective local policing be the foundation for keep all our constituent safe , whether they live in a city , a town or a rural area . that be why the Government be put more police officer and pcso on the beat . our plan for change will ensure every neighbourhood have a name contactable police officer in their community to deal with local issue . I welcome my hon . friend to her place . represent a rural constituency , I be aware of the ongoing problem of agricultural vehicle theft . in Calder Valley , vehicle crime count for one in every 20 crime commit . the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 , pass by the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) as a private Member ' s Bill , be restrict to the re - sale of specify equipment . however , 18 month since it receive Royal Assent , the statutory instrument need for it to be enact have yet to be lay . will my hon . friend act where the previous Government do not ? we be commit to implement the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act , which aim to prevent the theft and re - sale of high - value equipment , particularly for use in an agricultural setting , as my hon . friend describe . he will know that the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention take this matter very seriously and be work closely with the automotive industry to ensure the most robust response possible to these crime . I be also happy to raise the matter with my hon . friend ' s local chief Crown prosecutor . farmer across Luton South and South Bedfordshire have frequently raise with I the issue of fly - tipping on their land . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to implement strong law to prevent fly - tipping . will the Solicitor General , work with colleague across Government , also commit to review and update sentencing guideline for court to make prosecute fly - tipper more consistent and ensure more stringent fine be apply for the bad offender ? fly - tipping be a scourge both in urban and rural area , which be why we be clamp down on it by force environmental vandal to clean up the mess they create . we be take a cross - Government approach , align with our safe street mission . I be sure my hon . friend will be reassure to know that , work with ministerial colleague , we be set out a new strategy that will address antisocial behaviour and fly - tipping , and restore public confidence in police . misdemeanour what step she be take to help ensure the effective prosecution of perpetrator of misdemeanour . the Government be commit to tackle criminality of all type . we have set out our plan for change , which include put 13 , 000 more police officer and pcso on the beat , and bring back neighbourhood policing . next year , the Crown Prosecution Service will receive an additional £ 49 million of funding to help recruit and train more prosecutor , enable they to focus on secure justice in all case , from minor offence right through to the most serious crime . I thank the hon . Lady for that reply and I appreciate the additional resource , but what my constituent , and I be sure constituent up and down the country , want to see be robust effective policing and prosecution of what be low - level crime in the great scheme of thing , but which can be a real curse , particularly on our housing estate . can the hon . Lady give an assurance to my constituent that there will be real robust and positive action ? I can give that assurance . the hon . Gentleman call this kind of crime low level . I know from experience in my constituency that these issue can affect daily life and really blight community , so yes he have my assurance . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I wish you and your team , Mr Speaker , and everyone in the House a very merry Christmas , and I welcome the Solicitor General to her place . however , I be afraid that it will not be a merry Christmas for all my constituent . rural crime in North Cornwall be on the rise , from rural theft to increase drug trafficking . county line drug gang be groom and recruit child as young as nine to traffic drug , while elderly and vulnerable constituent have be cuckoo in their own home by the gang . what step be the Solicitor General take to work with the police to increase the number of prosecution of the ringleader of these ruthless gang that blight our community and expose our young people to violence and crime ? the hon . member be right to raise this important and press issue . we know that those who commit such crime , include crime in our rural community , be some of the most manipulative criminal in society . the Crown Prosecution Service supply early investigative advice to law enforcement agency to build strong case and ensure the robust prosecution of those involve in county line . I be determined that we will continue to do everything we can to prevent young people from be draw into crime and to stop this exploitation . Crown Prosecution Service : support for Victims what step the Crown Prosecution Service be take to improve support for victim of crime . one of my priority as Solicitor General and the priority of the Director for Public Prosecutions , whom I meet early this week , be tackle the intolerable backlog in our court and transform the way in which we support victim of crime . the Prime Minister have set out our plan for change , which will restore confidence in our criminal justice system . we have work with the CPS to make recent change to its process in order to improve communication with victim , strengthen the victim ' right to review scheme , reduce the rate of victim attrition , and reduce delay . you will know , Mr Speaker , that Edmund Burke say : " justice be itself the great stand policy of civil society " , but injustice reign when victim feel that the cause of their plight be be neglect . such be the case in Sutton Bridge , where a constituent of mine , a six - year - old girl , suffer the dreadful event of indecent exposure . the man be know in the community and be report by the father of the child , and CCTV footage be available . when crime of that kind be not investigate properly , people lose their faith in justice . we must deal with those crime , in the interest of the very justice that Edmund Burke recommend . I be very sorry to hear of the incident in the right hon . member ' s constituency ; that be indeed appal . it be vital for this type of conduct to be take seriously , and policing be key to that . we need more police officer and police community support officer , which be why , as part of our plan for change , we have promise to put 13 , 000 more police officer and pcso back on the beat with a name officer for every neighbourhood . we also need to improve the experience of victim within our criminal justice system , and that include well communication between victim and the CPS . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . I welcome my hon . friend to the Front Bench , and congratulate the former Solicitor General , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) , on her promotion to Minister of State in the Ministry of Justice . it be sometimes difficult to keep up with this Government ' s pace . give that the Crown court backlog stand at over 73 , 000 and trial be be list for 2027 , victim be await justice for an unacceptably long time , with the consequence that many no long feel able to support the process . how be the Solicitor General work , through the CPS , to ensure that victim face a wait of between two and three year for trial stay the course ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his kind word , and I look forward to appear before his Committee on 15 January . he be right to say that we need to be do much more to support victim . he allude to the review of the Crown court ; he will also know that the Lord Chancellor be take step to reduce the Crown court case load by increase funding for sit day , and far sitting day be announce yesterday — an extra 2 , 000 , I believe . violence against Women and girl what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate in case of violence against woman and girl . this Government have pledge to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade as part of our plan for change , and secure prosecution will be key to that . our commitment to tackle violence against woman and girl in this way be unprecedented , and it will require a wholesale change in how we think about and deal with these kind of offence . only through a truly cross - Government effort can it be achieve . as Solicitor General , I will work with colleague in the Ministry of Justice and the Home Office to ensure that we deliver on that commitment . may I welcome my hon . friend to her place ? I know she will do a fantastic job . Crown Prosecution Service guidance recognise that perpetrator of economic abuse harm their victim - survivor not just during a relationship , but long after it have finish . when will CPS guidance be update to reflect post - separation controlling and coercive behaviour be make a criminal offence , and what training on recognise such abuse be offer to the CPS ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . he have be work on this issue with survivor of economic abuse , and I know that he care about it very deeply . domestic abuse can take many insidious form , and we must do everything we can to ensure that we be equip to spot it and tackle it . the guidance to which he refer be update early this year and be under regular review . I can also confirm that the CPS will take part in a further knowledge - share event on economic abuse , which will be deliver for police and prosecutor as part of the domestic abuse joint justice plan . my family know what domestic abuse look like , but the law do not . that be because there be no specific offence of domestic abuse in the law , which mean that many abuser be convict of thing like common assault or actual bodily harm . for victim and survivor , that do not reflect the full gravity of the offence , and it also mean that abuser qualify for early release scheme . woman ' s aid be back my Bill , which would create a dedicated set of domestic abuse aggravate offence in the law . will the Solicitor General meet I to discuss my Bill , so that we can well respect and protect survivor ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . we be strengthen the law and the criminal justice system to improve prosecution for violence against woman and girl , and to well support victim . I call the shadow Minister — welcome . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . I wish you and the team a very happy Christmas indeed . I congratulate the Solicitor General on her position and welcome she to her place . I hope to work constructively and effectively with she on this challenging and very important part of Government . as the Solicitor General know , rape victim need action now , urgently , give that many rape case take more than two year to come to trial . there have be much talk from Ministers about open specialist fast - track rape court , but disappointingly there have be very little detail to date . how will the Government achieve that fast - tracking if they do not use all potential court sitting day , as request by the Lady Chief Justice but refuse by the Lord Chancellor ? I be grateful to the shadow Solicitor General for her kind word . she bring an awful lot of experience and expertise to her role , and I look forward to work constructively with she . she raise the issue of violence against woman and girl , and refer to Crown court sitting day . I say early that I be very pleased that an additional 2 , 000 Crown court sitting day be add by the Lord Chancellor yesterday . that be very important , because it will allow the fast - tracking that she refer to of the backlog in our court . I fully support the Government ' s mission to halve violence against woman and girl within the next decade , but how will the Government ' s progress be measure to ensure that they deliver against their target ? what assessment have be make of the definition of violence against woman and girl ? timeliness be clearly key , and the hon . Lady be absolutely right to refer to our commitment to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade . we will take urgent action , build on the urgent action we have already take . in November , for example , pilot of the new domestic abuse protection order begin with three police force , enable they to provide additional protection to victim . the hon . Lady will know that the police and the CPS have launch their domestic abuse joint justice plan . improvement in partnership work under the plan have already lead to a modest increase in referral of domestic abuse case from the police to the CPS , set a strong foundation for future improvement . Freight Crime what step she be take to increase prosecution rate of freight crime . freight crime pose significant challenge to the logistic and transport sector , affect business , community and our economy . this Government recognise the importance of address this issue , and the Crown Prosecution Service will always seek to prosecute serious offending when the relevant legal test be meet . prosecutor can also apply for compensation to be pay to victim and , in appropriate case , can seek the seizure of asset that represent the proceed of crime . Mr Speaker , I wish you and your team a very merry Christmas , and I thank you in particular for all your support over the last six month . I very much welcome my hon . friend the Solicitor General to her position , and I know she will be a powerful voice for justice in the Government . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on freight and logistic , I have be listen to business across the country , include many in my North Warwickshire and Bedworth constituency . they have tell I that freight crime have reach unacceptable level and be damage their business and their driver ’ welfare , yet organise gang steal good from freight vehicle be class as the same as someone break into a car and steal a phone from the passenger seat . what do the Solicitor General plan to do to ensure that freight theft be prosecute as the serious crime it be ? I know my hon . friend have formidable knowledge and expertise in these matter , which she raise very effectively on behalf of her constituent . we be clear that freight crime be a serious threat , and the Government be work closely with the police , the automotive industry and the National Vehicle Crime Intelligence Service to combat this threat . the CPS be , of course , alive to the prevalence of freight crime and bring together expertise to ensure that there be the resilience , skill and flexibility that be need to well respond to new and changing area of organise crime , like freight crime . People smuggle what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help increase prosecution rate in case of people smuggle . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question , and I know how much work he do in this area prior to his election to this place . criminal gang must not be allow to undermine our border security by illegally bring people into this country . that be why this Government be commit to smash the gang . we have set up the new Border Security Command , which will bring together law enforcement across the system and boost the Crown Prosecution Service ' s ability to deliver charge decision swiftly in international organise crime case . Merry Christmas to you , Mr Speaker . I congratulate my hon . friend the Solicitor General on take up her position . have work with the National Crime Agency in the past , and have work in a counter - terror role , I have see at first hand the effectiveness of counter - terror power and the difference that they can make . be the Government work to maximise the effectiveness of the Border Security Command by use counter - terror - style power , or adapt such power , in order to take on the smuggling gang and treat they like terrorist ? my hon . friend make a very important point . quite simply , the previous Government lose control of our border . that be why we need a much tough approach , learn from the success of our world - lead counter - terror measure . our border security , asylum and immigration Bill will create new , strong power for law enforcement agency to tackle , investigate and prosecute organised crime and strengthen UK border security . Hospice Funding ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care if he will make a statement on hospice funding . I be grateful to the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) for ask that important question . this Government want a society where every person receive high - quality , compassionate care from diagnosis through to the end of life . we will shift care out of hospital into the community to ensure that patient and their family receive personalise care in the most appropriate setting . palliative end of life care service , include hospice , will have a big role to play in that shift . Most hospice be charitable , independent organisation that receive some statutory funding for provide NHS service . the amount of funding that each charitable hospice receive vary both within and between integrate care board area . on child and young people ' s hospice funding , the Minister for Care meet representative from NHS England and together for short life and one of the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for child who need palliative care to discuss child ' s palliative and end of life care , and that funding stream be discuss at length at that meeting . this Government recognise the range of cost pressure that the hospice sector have be face over a number of year , so today I be delighted to announce the big investment in hospice and end of life care in a generation . we be support the hospice sector with a £ 100 million boost for adult and child ' s hospice , to ensure that those hospice have the good physical environment for care , and with £ 26 million in revenue to support child and young people ' s hospice . the funding will support hospice and deliver much need funding for improvement , include refurbishment , overhaul of IT system and improve security for patient and visitor . it will help hospice in this year and next year in provide the good end of life care for patient and their family in a supportive and dignified physical environment . hospice for child and young people will receive that furth £ 26 million in funding for 2025 - 26 through what be , until recently , know as the child ' s hospice grant . we will set out the detail of the funding allocation and dissemination in the new year . we completely understand the pressure that people be under . to govern be to choose , and the Chancellor choose to support health and social care in the Budget . the alternative be not to fund . the sector have suffer from 14 year of underfunding , and we be right that historic wrong . this Government be commit to ensure that every person have access to high - quality palliative and end of life care as part of our plan for change . we be take immediate action to make our healthcare fit for the future . I be sure that the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham and everyone in the House will welcome this announcement . I thank she for give I the opportunity to give the House an early Christmas present . order . I think you might find that I grant the urgent question , but don ' t worry , Minister . I call the shadow Minister . after the confusion of yesterday , I welcome the fact that further detail on hospice funding have be announce , albeit by our drag they out of the Government on the very last day of Parliament before the recess . on 30 October , the Chancellor decide to break her election promise by increase employer national insurance contribution and reduce the threshold at which employer contribution be payable . it be later confirm that hospice would not be exempt from the increase in cost . now the Government have announce new funding for the sector , which they have the audacity to call " the big investment in a generation " . let we be clear about what be go on : the Government be take million of pound off hospice and palliative care charity , and then think those hospice and palliative care charity should be grateful when the Government give they some of that back . that be socialism at its fine . we will look more closely at the funding announce today , but despite many question from right hon . and hon . member , to date the Government have refuse to give any clear answer on how much their tax rise will cost hospice . I will try again : will the Minister please tell we how much the Government estimate they will raise from tax hospice more ? be an impact assessment ever produce on how hospice will be hit , and how that will affect the care that they provide ? do the Government expect the funding that they have announce today to cover the additional cost in their entirety ? at the heart of this discussion be charity that provide compassionate care to terminally ill people in their final day , week and month . while hospice be leave without information , Hospice UK report that 300 bed have already close , with many more closure to come . do the Minister accept any responsibility for that ? ultimately , it be patient who will pay the price . while we welcome this update for hospice , when will the Health Secretary come forward with more detail on the many other health provider who have be hit by labour ' s tax increase , include GPs , community pharmacy and dentist ? will they be expect to be similarly grateful for get back some of the money that the Government have take from they ? to govern be , indeed , to choose . the conservative party choose neither this sector nor any other health sector and it refuse to govern . within five month , we have not only increase the funding to the health sector to stabilise it but make today ' s announcement . beneath all that , there might have be a welcome for the announcement — I be not entirely sure — whereas the sector be pleased to have the money . the chief executive of Hospice UK say : " this funding will allow hospice to continue to reach hundred of thousand of people every year with high - quality , compassionate care . we look forward to work with the government to make sure everyone approach the end of life get the care and support they need " . the chief executive of Haven House child ' s hospice say that it be " very positive to hear about the government ' s plan to invest significantly in the wide hospice sector ; we hope that there will be as much flexibility as possible to determine locally how this new money be spend . " this be an important issue for many hon . member , and we look forward to work with the sector in the new year on the specific of the announcement . this be a very welcome announcement and I be sure the hospice be breathe a sigh of relief after the level of funding they endure for 14 year under the Tories . if we be to move palliative care out of hospital and into care situation or people ' s home , the money need to be passporte to the hospice sector for it to play its part . integrated care board have be charge under the Health and Care Act 2022 to provide that funding . will the money go through icb or will it be passporte straight to the hospice sector ? my hon . friend make an important point about the need for more people to be treat at home . that be absolutely the direction of travel that we want to see . this money will help , for example , with technology to support more people to be treat at home . icb be responsible for commission and allocate funding , so that will be do in the normal way . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I wish you and the whole team a very merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . last week , I visit Hope House in my constituency , where I meet beautiful young Esmay , one of hundred of child care for by the hospice every single year . she be nearly three and have a life - threaten heart condition . esmay ' s family do not know what the future hold for she , but they know that Hope House will be there to support they , as it have since before she be bear . there be 300 , 000 people like Esmay treat in hospice every year , and just one third of their funding come from the NHS . that leave institution such as Hope House and nearby severn hospice reliant on generosity and unable to plan as they wait for confirmation of the funding they will receive from the NHS . that situation have be make more difficult this year because of the increase to national insurance contribution , which Hope House estimate will cost £ 177 , 000 . funding be welcome , and I welcome the Minister ' s commitment today . will she explain whether the increase that she have announce today will cover the NIC hike for hospice and the increase in the living wage that be announce at the Budget ? will she also commit to provide future settlement in a timely manner so that hospice manager can budget effectively for the come year ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and for welcome the announcement . she will know that , in the past 14 year , the sector have be neglect , like the rest of the NHS and social care system . as we have repeatedly say , to govern be to choose . we have improve the settlement for the sector this year . today ' s welcome announcement can be use by the sector to manage some of those pressure and deliver the sort of service it want for the future . do the Minister agree that the amazing staff at Overgate hospice in my constituency should be focus this Christmas on care for their patient and not on funding ? will she confirm that this funding allow they to do so ? also , in April I will be run the London marathon for the Overgate hospice ' s big build appeal . will the Minister sponsor I ? that be possibly one of the cheeky question I have ever hear ask here , and I be obviously go to have to say yes . frankly , rather he than I , but good luck to my hon . friend on do that . I know that many hon . member raise money for their local constituency and that the marathon be an important part of that . we understand how different hospice be fund differently throughout the country . we want to make sure that end of life care , with all the different option that people have in their local system , be well support . it be really important for people to have some of that security , and I know that this announcement will be welcome by my hon . friend ' s local hospice , as it be by the sector today . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . the St Helena Hospice in Colchester , which serve my constituency and that of the Labour hon . member for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) , estimate that the national insurance increase will cost it £ 300 , 000 in a full year . can the Minister now give a guarantee that the hospice will be compensate by the Government in full ? it be good to hear the hon . Gentleman support his local hospice with his neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) . we will announce allocation for the whole sector and the NHS in the usual way in the new year . St Giles Hospice in my constituency have funding challenge like any other . one thing that staff mention to I be the sustainability of when they be contract to do thing . be the Department consider the timing and not just the funding , to enable well planning and well staff planning ? yes , stability and understanding long - term planning be important for this sector as well as for many other . certainly , we want to make sure that we work with the sector and the wide NHS , so that we deliver our long - term 10 - year plan , but get to that process in the next few year . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . St Luke ' s Hospice in my constituency cover the whole of Brent and Harrow . I help to form it back in the 1980 . the staff tell I that the big problem they face be that , every time there be an increase in nurse or doctor ' pay , it be never pass on to they , so they have to find the money from charitable giving . the Minister ' s announcement of extra money be of course welcome , but she have fail to answer the question : will it cover the national insurance increase , or not ? all hon . member support their local hospice , which I know be important , but I have to remind the House of the parlous state of the sector that we inherit after 14 year of the previous Government . if Conservative Members , many of whom be part of that Government , have want to rectify the way in which hospice funding be allocate , or indeed that end of life care be manage , they have plenty of opportunity to do so . this Government have hit the ground run . we have fast - track these measure , and this announcement today be clearly a part of that . I hope that they all welcome it ; it be just a shame that they do not do it themselves . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . may I welcome this record investment in our hospice from the Labour Government ? the Conservative Government have 14 year to do that , but they shirk that responsibility . will the Minister join I in thank the amazing staff and volunteer at Saint Michael ' s Hospice and Demelza hospice in my constituency who do such amazing work all year round to support family and child who need amazing care ? I be delighted to support my hon . friend in the work that she have be do with St Michael ' s and Demelza hospice . she be absolutely right to highlight that , and I hope that she will be able to meet the staff in the new year and discuss how they can well use some of this funding . I wish you , Mr Speaker , and all the House staff , a very merry Christmas . follow on from the hon . member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , next year I will be take part in a strictly dance competition for my local Rowcroft Hospice . however , I be pretty sure that , even if all the member in this House sponsor I , I would not be able to raise the £ 225 , 000 need by Rowcroft to cover the additional national insurance contribution payment that it will have to make . will this extra funding , which be very welcome , be additional funding , or will it be just enough to cover the extra cost that have be impose on the hospice sector through the increase in national insurance contribution in the recent Budget ? I have to say that dancing be more my style than marathon run , so I wish the hon . Lady luck with that . at least she do not ask I for any money . I refer she to my early answer : this be additional money to support the hospice sector . it be a £ 100 million boost for adult and child ' s hospice to ensure that they have the good physical environment for care , and £ 26 million in revenue to support child and young people ' s hospice . we look forward to work with the sector in order to well deploy that in the New Year . Merry Christmas to you and your team , Mr Speaker . our hospice do an amazing job , and I look forward to visit my local hospice in the next few day , but scottish hospice have warn that they might have to turn patient away because of the funding crisis that they face under the SNP . do the Minister agree that the Scottish Government must at least match the level of investment that she have announce today ? they must have a similar level of ambition for scottish hospice , and provide fresh investment for our hospice , which do an amazing job in Scotland . as my hon . friend highlight , this be a devolved issue for the Scottish Government . we hope that they match our ambition , as she rightly put it . I wish she well with her local hospice , and I hope that the Scottish Government take note of what we be do here in England . over 7 , 000 charity and voluntary group have write an open letter to the Chancellor warning that the national insurance increase will cost they £ 1 . 4 billion and have a devastating impact . at this time of the year , ahead of Christmas , many charity , include hospice , be try to raise fund . I know that the Chancellor do not go into politic to be the Grinch who steal Christmas for charity , so will the Minister please look at this again , and exempt charity and voluntary group , include hospice , from this cruel tax increase , which be suck up good will and donation and really hurt valuable charity ? the hon . Gentleman be a Government Minister , so he have plenty of opportunity to change the system , have he want to do so at the time . I thank the Minister for her announcement of a huge funding boost for the hospice sector . will she join I in thank all the brilliant staff at Keech hospice , which serve Luton South and South Bedfordshire , and especially all the volunteer who be out fundraise with Smiley Sam and Santa ' s train across the street of Luton , include Farley Hill tomorrow and Wardown Crescent on Saturday ? I thank my hon . friend for make that point , and wish the volunteer well in their weekend activity . she be right to highlight not only staff but the hundred of thousand of volunteer across the country who work to support the hospice sector and other with end of life care . that support be so important for people receive end of life care and their family . it be something that I have experience ; my father die over the Christmas period a number of year ago . it be a hard time of the year to have a death , and I warmly support what those volunteer be do this weekend . the fact that the Minister have come here expect we to welcome her announcement and congratulate she on give money that her Government take away in the first place really beggar belief . mountbatten hospice in my constituency need an extra £ 1 million because of the NICs increase that her Government have bring forward . will she guarantee to Mountbatten and the charitable sector , include hospice — which the last government increase funding for , before she come back to I with that answer — that today ' s announcement will cover the £ 1 million that her Government have take away in nic ? what beggar belief be that person after person — man after man — on the Opposition Benches still feel able to get up and defend their record in government . not once have we hear that they agree with Lord Darzi ' s diagnosis , or that they welcome the extra investment that the Chancellor find by choose to support the health sector in the Budget . I be afraid that , until they reach that conclusion , they be destine to be on the Opposition Benches for a very long time . Merry Christmas to you and your team , Mr Speaker . Compton Care hospice in my constituency provide specialist palliative and bereavement care , 24 hour a day , 365 day a year . have previously discuss the lack of funding with the hospice , I be sure that it will welcome the extra funding that have be announce today . will the Minister please join I in thank Compton Care hospice and its incredible staff for the care that they will continue to provide throughout the Christmas period ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s comment , and I be very pleased to thank Compton Care hospice for all its work . he be right to highlight that the care be 365 day a year , around the clock . hospice such as St Ann ' s in Stockport provide really high - quality care to my constituent and other at what be often the tough point in their life , but they be struggle in a system that be no long fit for purpose . it be of course welcome that the Government be provide additional funding for they . one of the challenge that the hospice sector face be a really high rate of staff vacancy , so I would be grateful if the Minister would confirm whether the 10 - year plan for the NHS include a specific workforce plan for our hospice sector , so that it continue to care for our constituent at the tough point in their life . the hon . Lady make an excellent point about the stability of the workforce across the piece , from diagnosis to the end of life . we absolutely need to consider support for all part of that through the 10 - year plan . I encourage hon . member and other to ensure that they keep make those point . we be get excellent contribution from the public , patient and staff , and we look forward to develop the plan over the next few month and year . I welcome the large funding increase for hospice in a generation . if that can not bring some Christmas cheer to the Conservative Benches , it will in my constituency of Wirral West where Claire House hospice do such important work all year round . I be there just last week for their Christmas carol . will the Minister take the opportunity to thank they for the important work they do in my constituency of Wirral West ? I thank my hon . friend for his contribution and , indeed , for his singing . those event bring joy to people at a particularly difficult point in their life , and they be very welcome . any increase in funding for the hospice movement be of course welcome , but let we be honest : it be give with one hand and take with the other . the two excellent hospice that serve my constituency — St Andrew ' s in Grimsby and Lindsey Lodge in Scunthorpe — tell I they want certainty . the Minister say they will be tell early in the new year . can the Minister give a categorical assurance that in the first half of January hospice will be tell how much extra they be get from the £ 100 million she mention ? I thank the hon . gentleman for welcome the announcement . as I say , we will be work with the sector in the new year and then we will make allocation accordingly . stoke - on - Trent be wonderfully serve by the Dougie Mac and Donna Louise hospice . they be part of a healthcare system in Staffordshire and Stoke - on - Trent that the Minister know have a £ 90 million project deficit . what oversight will there be to ensure that the money that go to the icb reach the hospice and that the team in Staffordshire and Stoke - on - trent do not try to use some of this welcome new money to fill hole elsewhere ? my hon . friend make an excellent point — one that be raise early . it be vital that icb work with all provider to understand the need and how they be well meet . I know he will be diligent , as he already have be , in pursue what be happen with the funding with his local ICB . we will work with Hospice UK to ensure that that happen across the piece . the hon . member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) call for a fresh approach by the SNP Government in Holyrood , but she clearly expect we to do that with fresh air , because part of the £ 750 million additional cost from the national insurance contribution will fall on hospice . on Tuesday , she have the opportunity to vote against that cost . will the Minister confirm that there will be Barnett consequential for Scotland ? how will she address the problem that Marie Curie in Scotland face ? I admire the hon . gentleman for keep on the same wicket . in the Budget , this Government make the great allocation to the health sector . what the Scottish Government do with their consequential and how they manage that be entirely a matter for they , and if they be not do a good job , the public need to vote for someone else . I wish you , the team and all the wonderful staff on the parliamentary estate a merry Christmas . I very much welcome this big investment into local hospice , and I know it will be welcome by my local child ' s hospice forget I not and Kirkwood hospice , which do invaluable work in my constituency . what assessment have the Minister carry out on long - term sustainable funding for the sector , particularly in relation to statutory funding and the increase role that hospice play in the community and in people ' s home ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight that need . as I say early , end of life care and its stability as part of the wide system , which be a commission role for icb , be not address by the last government over 14 year . as part of our 10 - year plan , that will be important to do . we can all agree that hospice , such as St Barnabas in Lincolnshire , do vital and value work . I hope we can also all agree that every government — Labour and Tory — have increase national health spending , for that be simply a matter of fact . I ask the Minister to show a little wisdom in contrition in acknowledge that the national insurance increase that be impose on charity and hospice have do immense damage . we welcome the funding today — of course we do — but she need to be straightforward : be she , or any of the Health team , consult before the Budget about the impact of the NI increase on hospice , health charity , pharmacy and so on ? may I advise she to put down the folder and tell we what she really think ? I have scribble my own note — the right hon . Gentleman say that he " agree " — but the issue be that his Government do nothing over 14 year to support or make a change . that be why the announcement we be make be so important . I reiterate my early point , which I will repeat every time I be at the Dispatch Box : the Conservatives have not read the Darzi report ; if they do not agree with the diagnosis , they can not agree with the solution . that be their fundamental problem . I welcome the announcement of additional funding , as will many family across the country . although it be not in my constituency , Rowans Hospice be use by people in Pompey . indeed , my nan Pearl and my very dear friend Fiona spend their last few week in the hospice ' s care , and what a wonderful place it be . at a city council meeting this week , concern be raise about the future of that amazing service . will the Minister confirm that the Government be commit to ensure that every person have access to high - quality end of life care ? that be absolutely what we want to do , and today ' s announcement be a step towards it . as my hon . friend highlight , hospice be very special place , but most people want to die at home with their love one , in the place they know well , and many part of the sector will be able to use this money to help more people to die peacefully at home . this additional funding will benefit hospice serve Westmorland community — St Mary ' s , St John ' s , Eden Valley and the child ' s hospice , Jigsaw — only if two thing happen . first , the Government must provide additional funding to match the national insurance increase that those hospice will have to bear , and secondly , the Government must ensure that the integrate care board in south Cumbria and north Cumbria pass on that money in full and on time . will the Minister press they to do so ? on the Morecambe bay end , will she press they on the closure of the Abbey View ward at Barrow hospital ? the trust be plan to close that end of life ward , which will put additional pressure on our local hospice but without any additional funding to support they . the commissioning of those service be the responsibility of the icb , and we expect they to do that . they be responsible from diagnosis to end of life . in the past few month , I have meet many hon . member from across political party to discuss issue in their icb . I know that he will , like other , be assiduous in pursue the ICB to ensure that funding go to the right place . I wish you , Mr Speaker , and the fantastic staff across the estate a happy Christmas . I thank the Minister for the way in which she and her team have listen to I and colleague , who arrive in this place with real concern about the state of palliative care after year of under - investment by the previous Government . the funding announce today will be welcome by Keech hospice and Garden House hospice , which provide fantastic palliative care for constituent in and around my area . will she join I in thank they for the fantastic work that their staff and volunteer do all year round to support people in incredibly difficult moment in their life ? will she also assure they that palliative care will remain at the front and centre of the Government ' s mind in the difficult work of get health service work again ? I be happy to support my hon . friend , who make an excellent point , in his work with local provider . he congratulate I , but the work have be do mainly by the Minister for Care , my hon . friend the Member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) , and by the Secretary of State , who have personally take on this issue . they be visit hospice today , so they could not be here even though they want to . we be commit to support people throughout their life , from diagnosis to end of life . I have be contact by vast number of family and relative of those who have be wonderfully care for by Sue Ryder Manorlands hospice in Oxenhope in the Worth valley . they be all concerned about the impact that the rise in employer national insurance will have on they . those at Manorlands be deeply concerned that it will cost they hundred of thousand of pound . in answer the urgent question , the Minister have announce additional funding , but can she confirm whether it will cover the cost of those rise to Sue Ryder Manorlands hospice in my constituency ? do the Government carry out an impact assessment of the negative impact that the Budget would have on those in the charitable and hospice sector ? the hon . Gentleman ask the same question again . through the Budget , this Government have allocate more money to the health service than the previous Government — a record announcement — and we have announce money again this morning . to govern be to choose . the last Government neither govern well nor choose to support the health sector from diagnosis to end of life ; this Government have , and will continue to do so . some week before the Budget , I visit both St Catherine ' s hospice and St Peter and St James hospice , which serve my constituent . I have not expect how quiet and empty those hospice be , because of the empty bed and mothball wing that have be close due to a lack of funding . evidently , the funding crisis in the hospice sector be very deep before the Budget , but the Budget have only make it bad through the NIC increase . as such , I will try again : will the welcome funding announce today cover the cost of those NIC increase ? as Lord Darzi ' s report announce , the entire sector have be under pressure and struggle since the disastrous Lansley reform — they be part of the coalition Government — through to when we take over in July . we will fix the NHS and rebuild it to make it more sustainable and fit for the future . that include everything from diagnosis to end of life care . for my sin , I too will be run the London marathon next year . I will be run to raise money for Keech hospice ; I know , as do other hon . member who represent constituency in Bedfordshire , what fantastic work that hospice do and the care it provide to our county . the Minister have be ask lot of time to comment on the impact of the NIC increase , which be go to hurt hospice in constituency all around the country , so may I ask the question in a slightly different way ? do the Minister think that Keech hospice , take in the round , will be financially well off or bad off next year as a result of both the Budget and this announcement that she have be drag to the House to make ? I have not be drag — I be very happy to be here . the reality be that the health sector in its entirety , from diagnosis to end of life care , will be well off this year than it be last year or the year before under the hon . Gentleman ' s Government . I place on record my thank to all those in my constituency who will be care for other over Christmas , whether they be unpaid family carer or pay care provider . that include the register nurse and register care provider who have write to I to say that there will be an extra cost of £ 615 per employee as a result of the change in the Budget . I will not attempt to ask whether the money announce today will cover national insurance contribution , but I will ask what the Government will do to help register care provider . where will the money come from to enable they to meet their increase national insurance contribution ? as the hon . Gentleman know , this Government have allocate an extra £ 12 billion in this year for the health and care sector . the full allocation to cover the entire area of health and social care will be announce in the new year . it would be churlish of anybody in this Chamber not to welcome the money that the Government be set aside . I thank the Minister and the Government for that announcement , but what discussion have the Minister have with Cabinet colleague to secure exemption from national insurance contribution hike for hospice worker ? I think of Marie Curie — I speak about that charity yesterday in Westminster Hall , and the Minister probably have a Marie Curie in her constituency . we know what that charity do . unlike the mainstream NHS , it will not be exempt , yet it carry out the end of life care that the NHS simply can not provide . far , what help will be provide to carer in the community ? the withdrawal of their service would leave the care system decimate . the hon . Member make an excellent point about carer and their support . we make announcement about that in the Budget , and we will make more general announcement about allocation in the new year . may I gently say that I know you welcome be here , Minister , but it would have be easy if the announcement have come as a statement rather than through have to grant an urgent question ? when Ministers be go out — quite rightly — to visit hospice , we should be tell at the same time . it would be nice and easy for we all to do it that way , but I thank the Minister for come . I would also say to all of we that our hospice matter . in the case of those hospice that serve my constituency — the child ' s hospice of Derian House and St Catherine ' s — I wish they all the good for Christmas . I thank all hospice for the duty they carry out on behalf of our constituent . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 6 January 2025 include : Monday 6 January — debate on a motion on seize frozen russian asset to fund Ukraine , follow by a general debate on backlog in the NHS . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Tuesday 7 January — second reading of the Crown Estate Bill [ Lords ] . Wednesday 8 January — second reading of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . Thursday 9 January — general debate on tackle violence against woman and girl . Friday 10 January — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 13 January will include : Monday 13 January — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Tuesday 14 January — remain stage of the Renters ' Rights Bill . Wednesday 15 January — remain stage of the Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill . Thursday 16 January — motion to approve the draft Deposit Scheme for Drinks Containers ( England and Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2024 , follow by business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee ( unallotte time ) . Friday 17 January — private member ' Bills . as it be Christmas , Members may also wish to know that , subject to the progress of business , follow the House rise for the summer recess at the close of business on Tuesday 22 July , the House will return on Monday 1 September . the House will rise for the conference recess on Tuesday 16 September , and return on Monday 13 October . Mr Speaker , may I associate myself very strongly with the remark you have just make about hospice ? you will recall that St Michael ' s hospice be the topic of a recent discussion that we have at the Dispatch Box in business question . Mr Speaker , I must confess that I feel a slight degree of trepidation and nervousness , because at the weekend I receive two massively welcome Christmas present with the result of the Manchester derby and — dare I say it ? — the defeat of Chorley by Hereford in a tough , hard - fought game at Edgar Street . I remain worried that I will need all of your legendary reserve of Christmas love kindness in order to mention this . this be the time of year when we think of friend and family , of our armed force that keep we safe here and overseas , of those who care for other wherever they may be , and of the emergency service that protect we all the year round , but especially over the holiday period . Mr Speaker , I think you will know that , in relation to this House , Parliament ' s own record be not absolutely unblemished when it come to Christmas . fuel by puritan hostility to public celebration and unseemly revelling , the Long Parliament — Parliament , no less — outlaw the celebration of Christmas in the 1640 . People naturally react , notably with the plum pudding riot in Canterbury in 1647 , which begin with a football game , but end up with a brawl . how very different from the result at the weekend . perhaps the bad moment for this House be during the protectorate , when Parliament sit on Christmas day 1655 , and Colonel John Desborough attempt to impose a decimation tax while many royalist be out sensibly celebrate the Christmas season . a punitive and partisan tax , and an unpopular , blunder Government up to various trick and seek to rush their business through the Commons while the House ' s back be turn — how lucky we be that such a thing could never happen today . however , my personal favourite be 1659 , when the supply of french wine be temporarily cut off , create absolute mayhem in London and other city across the country . what to do ? there could be only one answer : member of Parliament should drink herefordshire cider . it be every bit the equal of Burgundy and Bordeaux , as Roger Bosworth , my predecessor as MP for Hereford in the 1659 Parliament , insist , and it be the ideal remedy for smooth away trouble . bosworth be a medical doctor , so he well know the life - enhance benefit of Herefordshire cider . I think the lesson be clear : I doubt the plum pudding riot would have happen at all if the people of Canterbury have have Herefordshire cider to drink after the football . I only hope that the Chorley player be able to do the same after that hard - fought game on Saturday . Mr Speaker , to you , to the Clerks and the House staff , and to all our colleague across these Benches and in the other House , I wish a very merry and herefordshire - fill Christmas and a happy new year . Mr Speaker , I too would like to start by wish you and everybody in the parliamentary community a very merry and restful Christmas . from the Doorkeepers to the cleaner , the police , the Clerks , Hansard and the Lobby , to the hairdresser and the gardener , there be so many to thank . may I also take this opportunity to thank Katie from my private office who have lead all the preparation for business question for successive leader of the House over the last two year ? she be leave for pasture new and we will miss she greatly . I will not join the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) in mention the derby match at the weekend if he do not mind , but as this be the last business question of the year , let we reflect . it be out with the old and in with the new . I end the last Parliament pay tribute to outgoing member from that Parliament and we do lose some very big figure from this place , but come July we gain the big intake of new member in modern history and it have be really energise to see so many enthusiastic , committed and talented new colleague . they have all get to work so quickly , and many feel like old hand already . it have be a whirlwind for they and all of we arrive in Government and I think we all deserve a proper break over Christmas . it have be not just a huge change for Parliament but a big change in Government too . it have be difficult , of course , as we face unprecedented challenge and a very difficult legacy . try to return Government to the service of ordinary work people , not vested interest , be a big task for we to undertake , but the oil tanker , as they say , have start to move . we be take on the water boss to end the scandal of bonus over investment . we be for the first time ensure our home - grow energy supply meet our ambitious target for clean energy by 2030 . we be address the housing need and the housing crisis with bold action , bring in new right for worker and renter , and create a transport system in service of passenger not profit . and we be restore our health and education into world - class service with record level of investment . many hon . member will no doubt be in Santa ' s — or perhaps I should say Mr Speaker ' s — Christmas good book : colleague who ask short topical question ; those who speak through the Chair and make sure they be in the Chamber for wind - up ; those who wear appropriate shoe ; the judge of Purr Minister for crown Mr Speaker ' s cat , Attlee , the champion ; and , of course , anyone mention Chorley or rugby league in a positive sense . but there will perhaps be some who will not be get a visit from Mr Speaker ' s Santa this year : minister who do not make statement to Parliament first and instead go on the BBC ; heckler in Prime Minister ' s question ; member with pointless point of order ; anyone who announce to the medium their intention to secure an urgent question ; those who cross in front of a member as they be speak ; and , lest we forget , any Member drink milk in the Chamber . as I be , until July , the shadow Leader of the House , I might give the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire a little advice for these session , base on some of his previous appearance : if he do want I to answer question , perhaps he could make they a little less long - wind ; perhaps for next year , he might not want to contradict his own previous position quite so often ; and go into 2025 , he might want to reflect a little more on why his party lose the election . if you will forgive I , Mr Speaker , give that it be Christmas time , perhaps we can take one final opportunity to look at the Conservatives ' legacy : 12 hour A & E wait time ; 11 % inflation ; 10 Lords defeat on Rwanda ; 9 million inactive worker ; 8 , 000 bus route cancel ; 7 million people on waiting list ; six council bankrupt ; five Prime Ministers topple ; 4 million child in poverty ; three broken pledge ; two nurse ' strike ; and a Prime Minister at a lockdown party . I thank member for their comment . I hope that Chorley get promote — that be the gift we need for the new year . I wish all member a merry Christmas , and let we hope for a very peaceful year . I thank all the staff of this House for all that they do . they be wonderful ; whether they be security or whoever — we can go around — they matter . we must thank those work over Christmas and new year across the country for keep the light on and do all the job that need to be do . we must not forget all the people who serve in our armed force , the police , the ambulance service and the hospital , who will all be there for we . I want to thank they , and I would also personally like to thank my team for the support they give I . I wish everybody a peaceful new year when it come . recently , a civil court judge find that Paula Leeson be unlawfully kill by her husband on a holiday abroad . that be a different verdict to that reach in a criminal trial in 2021 , with significant new evidence have emerge . Paula ' s brother , my constituent , be now push for a retrial . Paula die in horrific circumstance : drown fully clothe in a swimming pool with 13 separate injury , after her husband have take out multiple life insurance policy on she . can the Leader of the House advise I on how I might take this issue forward , so that Paula and her family get the justice they so desperately deserve ? I be really sorry to hear of the tragic case of Paula and the suffering that her family must be go through at this awful time . my hon . friend have raise the matter on the Floor of the House today , and I will certainly take it up with Ministers for he . he will be aware that I have just announce a debate on tackle violence against woman and girl , which this Government be commit to do . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I , too , would like to wish you , Mr Speaker , all the Clerks and the House staff a very merry Christmas , and I add my personal thank to everyone who have show such support to the newly elect member of Parliament in their first few month in office . this week ' s White Paper on local government devolution be hotly anticipate , but there be a big problem that it do not address . local government finance be in a desperate state , and yesterday ' s finance settlement announcement do precious little to correct that . set aside local council tax increase , my council , Chelmsford city council , have calculate that its core spending power have increase by only £ 100 , 000 in the past decade , yet its cost have go through the roof and it be constantly be ask to do more with less . we be in the midst of a housing crisis , and we will not be able to build 1 . 5 million new home without the hard work and attention of local government ' s talented planner , highway engineer and housing team . we have a crisis in our special educational need system and no plan in sight for reform . we will not be able to fix it without a huge effort from local government professional work in child ' s service and education . our social care system be in crisis . we will not be able to fix that without the input of the professional work in local government . there be plenty for local government to be focus on , but where be the plan ? instead , the devolution directive , accompany by local government reorganisation , will drag sparse resource away from those issue , as council be force to focus on new structure , on pay redundancy and on spend money on rearrange the deckchair while service the public rely on be make to suffer . will the Leader of the House ask the Secretary of State to explain why there do not appear to be a plan for fix these thing that be break , before give local government more to do ? I thank the hon . member for those point . first , I welcome she as one of the new Members of this House . we work alongside each other on the House of Commons Commission and many other board of this place — too many to mention . she certainly have take to this place incredibly well , and she be make a mark with what she be do . the hon . Lady be right . she be describe the absolutely woeful and scandalous legacy that we inherit in local government funding , child ' s service , education and other vital local service that people rely on . we be begin the work to turn that around . she be right to point out the record settlement for local government announce in the Budget and set out by the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution this week , with an increase of 3 . 5 % on average for local authority . she will also be aware that we announce an extra £ 1 billion for special educational need . the hon . Lady be right that we also need to change how we be do thing . that be why the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which will make much - need change to our child ' s service , be present this week . it be only when we work at a place - base level that we can really get the early intervention and support we need to drive down demand and increase outcome for some of our most vulnerable child . I hope that she will welcome our plan go forward . I take this opportunity to wish all colleague in the Chamber and beyond it a very merry Christmas . ten year ago , my constituent Claire Throssell promise her son , who have die at the hand of their domestically abusive father , that no other child would die in the same tragic circumstance . this week have see the sentencing of Sara Sharif ' s father and stepmother , who murder she . too many child have die at the hand of know domestically abusive parent who have be grant unsupervised contact in the family court . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on change the law on presumptive contact in order to prevent further child death at the hand of know domestically abusive parent ? the case of my hon . friend ' s constituent sound awful . we have all be move , appal and shock in many way by the case of Sara Sharif and its finding , along with the sentencing this week . she will know that the Government be absolutely committed to ensure that all vulnerable child be safe . we be bring in reform , especially to area such as home schooling and kinship care , and support for child ' s service and child ' s social worker . we present the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill this week , but that be just a start . I look forward to work with she and colleague so that we can ensure that this never happen again . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . in addition to the business that the Leader of the House announce on Backbench Business day , we be try to find a date for the debate delay from last Thursday because the Government put on three statement and squeeze the agenda so that it could not be hear . that debate be on the performance of the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency , which I ask a question about some week ago . in addition to those debate , in Westminster Hall on Thursday 9 January there will be a full day ' s debate on the impact of conflict on woman and girl . also in Westminster Hall , on 14 January there will be a debate on railway service in the south - west , on Thursday 16 January there will be a debate on Government support for the marine renewable industry , and on 21 January there will be a debate on the provision of auditory verbal therapy . we will obviously offer debate in the normal way , and we be take application appropriately . I be not sure whether the Leader of the House have see the rather excellent report produce by the Henry Jackson Society question the number of casualty and death in Gaza since the beginning of the war . we seem to be inch towards what everyone want to see : a ceasefire and the return of the hostage . we wish those hostage the very good at this time of year and hope for their return to their family . could she arrange for a statement when we return about the true fact on casualty and death in Gaza , rather than the fictitious figure make up by the Ministry of Health , which be control by Hamas ? I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee for announce some of his forthcoming debate . he will be aware that , as I just read out , an extra Backbench Business half - day have be allocate on Thursday 16 January to make up for last week . I hope that satisfy he . when it come to what be happen in Israel and Gaza , I be sure the whole House will join I and he in want to get to that much - need ceasefire in the conflict between Israel and Hamas — hopefully even over the Christmas period — and to get the hostage return so that we can start to see a move towards the long - stand , peaceful settlement for the region that we all desperately want . I wish you a merry Christmas , Mr Speaker , and a happy Hogmanay when it come . my constituency be home to the rural community of Balquhidder , where , since 2018 , community volunteer have lay more than 36 km of fibre cable to provide the community with a high - speed internet connection year ahead of when a commercial operator would have reach the area . Balquhidder have achieve this hard work with financial support from the Government ' s Building Digital voucher . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the volunteer of Balquhidder on all their work , and indeed volunteer in all our community who be work hard over Christmas on all that they do ? will she also make time for a debate on rural broadband provision and mobile telephone coverage so that we can explore how to bring the digital connection that many urban community take for grant to more rural community , such as Balquhidder , as quickly as possible ? I would be delighted to join my hon . friend in congratulate his constituent on work as a community to get the fibre broadband connection that rural community such as his so desperately rely on — it really be the fourth utility . he be right to point out that the previous Government ' s roll - out of broadband in rural community be far too slow . we have science question when we return , but I will certainly consider his request for a debate . could we have a debate on put child at the heart of public policy ? in her statement , the Leader of the House mention child and the emerge Bill . she will know that there be an equality impact assessment in pre - legislative scrutiny , and that there can be no discrimination on the basis of age . there have be two dominant theme in these business question so far : herefordshire — as a Herefordshire boy , I be delighted by that — and child . I hope that the Government , across Departments , will consider a potential new policy that will look at policy , Bills and law and how they impact child . I welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment . we be absolutely put child at the heart of our policy . we have a mission to ensure opportunity for all and that every child have the very good start in life , to really galvanise all the different Departments and place across the country , and Secretaries of State , include the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , be work closely on a child poverty taskforce . put child first be at the forefront of this Government ' s mission . I look forward to work with the right hon . gentleman on deliver that . Merry Christmas and a happy new year to you and all the House staff , Mr Speaker , and to everybody out there , particularly in my constituency . many of my constituent have contact I to convey their concern over the safety of their love one and the wellbeing of former Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan after the killing of several protester in Pakistan , with many more injured and hospitalise , in addition to their anxiety over abduction , torture and transnational repression . will the Leader of the House ensure that our UK Ministers make representation to their Pakistan counterpart to protect democratic norm , press freedom and the human right of all ? my hon . friend will be aware that the British Government and Ministers be in constant dialogue with counterpart in Pakistan and around the world . we do expect democratic norm to be uphold in Pakistan , as we do in other country . I will ensure that he get a proper ministerial response on the issue he have raise . yesterday see yet another road traffic accident on Strines Road in my constituency , result in injure passenger have to be take to Stepping Hill hospital . the Leader of the House will know that speeding be a problem on road across the country . she will also know that for Transport for Greater Manchester even to consider instal a fix speed camera , there need to have be three serious accident . the community on Strines Road know that although it be far too early to determine exactly what cause yesterday ' s accident , speeding have be a persistent issue on that road for year , and they have be work with local councillor Colin MacAlister and Shan Alexander to tackle it . will the Leader of the House ask a Transport Minister to come to this House to explain the progress they be make in tackle speed across our community ? the hon . Lady raise a really important issue for her constituent . I know her constituency well , as we be near neighbour . in fact , my brother be a constituent of hers and be very pleased that last week she raise the problem with the train in her constituency . today she raise the very important matter of speeding , which come up in the House regularly . the Government be commit to tackle road traffic accident and speeding on our road . I will ensure that the relevant Minister have hear her question today and that she get a proper reply . FSB Wales , the Federation of Small Businesses in Wales , be ask people to join its £ 10 pledge by spend at least £ 10 with a small business during December . I be very much look forward to get out on to Bangor High Street this weekend to finish my Christmas shopping , and especially to visit the new Obsession Menswear shop that have just open in the Deiniol centre . will the Leader of the House join I in take the £ 10 pledge and wish all small business in Bangor Aberconwy a very merry Christmas ? I will be join my hon . friend in the mad dash for last - minute Christmas present this weekend — I be hope to get some that cost £ 10 or less , which be quite difficult in the current climate . I absolutely join she in support local business in her constituency . maybe I could try a few Christmas pun , Mr Speaker . there be " noel " time like the present to shop in Bangor . many business will be severely negatively impact by the Government ' s announcement on change to inheritance tax through business property relief . those in the hospitality sector , such as hotelier and brewery , and even the manufacturing , engineering and tech business in my constituency , have contact I with their deep concern about the effect the change will have on their business . be the Leader of the House aware of any economic analysis or modelling do by the Government specifically on the negative impact they will have ? I see that the Secretary of State for Business and Trade be sit next to she on the Treasury Bench . be he , or even the Chancellor , aware of the negative impact of the measure in the Budget on those particular business ? we fully support family business and other business , which be vital to our economy . we have to take some very difficult decision in the Budget to deal with the really severe legacy we be leave , which be , I be afraid , a chronic big black hole in economic spending . we have to find way to ensure that our public service have the investment they need go forward . he will be aware that when we take into account all the other factor , include personal allowance and so on , few family business will be affect than the hon . Gentleman might think . Mr Speaker , a merry Christmas to you and all staff . I put on record that my mam be a WASPI woman . my right hon . friend will know full well the strength of feeling regard this week ' s announcement of no compensation for the WASPI woman . the ombudsman be clear that Parliament should make the decision on remedy . Parliament have not . will my right hon . friend please find time for a debate so that we can do as the ombudsman have ask we to do ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I know that this be a really big issue for many woman right across the country , and it have span multiple Parliaments . I know that many will be very disappointed by this week ' s announcement , and we do not underestimate the strength of feeling and the upset that people will be feel . I know it be difficult to hear , but pay flat - rate compensation to all woman bear in the 1950 , at a cost of up to £ 10 . 5 billion , would not be a fair or proportionate use of public money . the Government do not accept the ombudsman ' s finding on the remedy be necessary in this case . colleague can apply for debate on these matter in the usual way . I call Chris Law . I be extremely grateful — [ interruption . ] oh , I beg your pardon . I think there be a doppelganger in the Chamber for a second , Mr Speaker . a new Government can make political choice , and one would have think that , in the week before Christmas , they would be positive choice — thing that people could take home and feel grateful and happy about on Christmas Day . however , as have just be mention by the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) , million of woman throughout the country , 1950 - bear woman , have be affect , quite adversely , in respect of their state pension . many be in ill health , and be continue to work in ill health . they live in hope for many year during their protract , passionate and very reasonable campaign for fairness and justice , and on Tuesday this week they be tell that they be get none of it . we have an ombudsman , which have make very clear , very fairly and decently , what amount should be pay in compensation , and have also make clear that the Department for Work and Pensions make error at the time . since Tuesday , not only have we receive email , but member of Parliament , particularly Government Members , have be delete page from their website and Twitter account — the very page that show they campaign out there with WASPI woman , get their photograph take , do video , send message and so forth . now they have no voice . they be frighten even to raise the issue in this House . may I therefore urge the Leader of the House and the Business Secretary to arrange a debate as soon as possible , a meaningful debate in Government time ? no ifs , no but ; we all need to have our say on this . as I just say , I understand the strength of feeling about this matter . the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions come to the House first to make the announcement , as be appropriate , especially when it come to a report from the parliamentary ombudsman which be lay before the House last March . the Government have consider that report in full and give it a great deal of thought , and there be time for member to ask question on Tuesday , but of course debate can be bring to the Floor of the House in many different way , and I be sure that this issue will continue to be debate . will my right hon . friend arrange a debate in Government time in the new year on the funding of political party ? I wonder what it mean when a party talk about sovereignty and be then willing to sell itself entirely to a foreign - own entity , while use slogan like " take back control " . we have see the controversy of the conservative party ' s fondness for take a few bob from Putin ' s oligarchs , and we have see the recent scandal involve the Chinese try to influence politic in this country . I think that we , as this government , must make sure that we be say that our politic be not up for sale , and I think we should have a debate about it in the House . my hon . friend have make some extremely valid point about our democracy and our sovereignty in this country . I see that the leader of the Reform party be in his place — Deputy leader . I be sorry — the deputy leader . he give up his leadership role to someone else at some point , I recall . anyway , the deputy leader . for now . for now , yes . I think the hon . Member have make his point . my hon . friend will be aware that foreign donation be not permit in our electoral system , and that be absolutely as it should be . our democracy do face daily threat from rogue state , rogue actor and other who try to disrupt it and to spread myth and disinformation , and these be issue that we should be very alive to . I think I now have to go to Richard Tice ! thank you , Mr Speaker — as the deputy leader of Reform UK . along with , I think , million of other british citizen , I be shocked to read the expos é in the Times that Britain have become the " western capital " for the use of sharia court . may we have a debate on this issue in the new year ? in my view , the use of sharia court to make unofficial ruling about marriage , divorce and family life have no place in the United Kingdom . I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place . I be sure that his leader be somewhere far more important , perhaps in a studio or abroad , get an airing . I hear what he have have to say , and I be sure we all agree that the court that be recognise in this country be UK , british and english court , which be entirely right . in West Sussex , the number of education , health and care plan have rise from 3 , 362 in 2015 to 7 , 684 in 2024 — a 228 % increase . with school increasingly stretch , there be an inevitable cost to child with and without special need . I have recently meet special need co - ordinator lead from two excellent school in my constituency , Bishop Tufnell and Edward Bryant , to discuss the funding and staffing challenge that they face . they be not specialist support centre , and local specialist school be oversubscribed . they be reliant on local charity such as the Rotary Club , which work tirelessly to raise money to improve their facility , but it can not assist with the impact of the national insurance contribution rise on staffing level and staff retention , or with temporary contract and burnout . will the Leader of the House commit to grant a debate to consider a sustainable future funding model for school with SEND provision ? I think I would apply for an Adjournment debate . the issue of SEND often come up in these session . I gently remind the hon . Lady that the SEND system that this Government inherit be in crisis , with spiral cost get high and high , and outcome get bad and bad . there be no question but that special educational need provision in this country be in need of serious investment and serious reform , which be what this Government intend to deliver . Mr Speaker , I wish you and everybody across the estate a very merry Christmas and a happy new year , particularly those who will be work over the holiday period . I recently have the privilege of attend a conference organise by Sikh Women ' s aid , at which it launch its report on its comprehensive survey , which look into domestic abuse , sexual abuse , faith - base and spiritual abuse , and barrier face victim and survivor . the report detail a number of recommendation , include ringfence funding stream for by - and - for support service , the inclusion of Sikh Punjabi woman ' s experience in policy advocacy , a legal definition of " spiritual abuse " , and a co - ordinate and join - up response to Sikh Punjabi victim and survivor . will the Leader of the House join I in welcome the important work do by Sikh Women ' s aid , particularly in view of the threat , intimidation and violence that its trustee and staff have face , and will she make time for a debate on the importance of by - and - for support organisation ? order . can you help each other ? we have a lot on this afternoon , and I want to try to get everybody in . we need to try to be a bit short in ask the question . I will try to be a bit short in answer they , too . I strongly welcome the work be do by Sikh Women ' s aid to highlight some of the barrier that woman face in report abuse . my hon . friend will know that this Government treat tackle violence against woman and girl as a key mission , and we have just announce a debate on this issue when we return . it be now over six month since the autocratic ruler Sheikh Hasina flee Bangladesh amid outcry about human right abuse , include the killing of hundred of protester under her regime . will the Leader of the House provide time to consider how the UK be support the people of Bangladesh in their pursuit of democracy and freedom from oppression , include by assess the UK ' s historical role with regard to the depose regime , work with the Bangladeshi authority in response to allegation of corruption and embezzlement against member of the former Government who be in the UK , and address the misinformation and serious falsehood be perpetuate , which be currently fuel violence and instability in the region ? my hon . friend will know that the british Government engage in ongoing dialogue with Bangladesh and other country . we expect to see democratic norm in Bangladesh , as we do in every other country , and they include press freedom and everything else . she might be aware that we have Foreign Office question when we return , and she could raise this issue with the Foreign Secretary . Mindful of the Leader of the House ' s advice , I be suitably boot , I be speak through the Chair and , of course , I have Chorley imprint on my heart . in that spirit , may I ask the Leader of the House for a debate on the WASPI woman ? I know she have say we can apply for a debate , and I be go to ask for something quite different , but give what the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) and for Dundee Central ( Chris Law ) have say , it be essential that when we have an ombudsman report of such seriousness — I have rarely see one like it in my time in this House — we have the chance to debate it . if the Leader of the House do not offer a debate , I will apply to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , immediately follow business question . I thank the right hon . Gentleman , and he be a very honourable Member . I be sure he be in the good book of not only Mr Speaker but the Deputy Speakers , and be certainly on their Christmas card list , because he always have the right attire , always speak through the Chair and always ask punchy , short question . on the serious issue that the right hon . Gentleman raise , I know that the strength of feeling be widespread and that people want to air their view . I be sure there will be time , as I be sure colleague will apply for debate in the usual way . Nadelik lowen — merry Christmas . as we look forward to next year , 2025 could and should be a momentous year for Cornwall , with our unparalleled resource of renewable energy and critical mineral . do the Leader of the House agree that the time have come to pass from Westminster to cornwall the power and support need to deal with our unique set of challenge and to unleash the cornish celtic tiger ? I take this opportunity to congratulate my hon . friend on regularly attend these session and other debate , and on consistently raise critical mineral and their importance to Cornwall ' s future and , indeed , to our mission to be a clean energy superpower by 2030 . the Business Secretary be in his place next to I today , and I be sure he have hear my hon . friend ' s call . I hope that , through the devolution White Paper that we launch this week , the voice of Cornwall will be hear loud and strong . last week , I call in on the drop - in session organise by Alzheimer ' s Research UK and Prostate Cancer UK . at these session , we repeatedly hear appeal for people to go in for early diagnosis , and the message be the same now as it be many year ago . could the Leader of the House find time for a debate on how we can prevent illness through early screening and diagnosis ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to say that dementia and other disease would be much well treat with early diagnosis . this Government be absolutely committed to early intervention , early diagnosis and ensure that service be out in the community , where people can get the appointment and early diagnosis they need . that be what the Government be continue to deliver . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Adi Robinson and his hard - work and compassionate team at Rugby food bank ? do she agree that , although they display the good of human nature , their effort should not be need in such a rich and civilised country as ours ? do she far agree that this Government be take action to reduce food poverty and poverty through our child poverty taskforce , free breakfast club , the Renters ' Rights Bill and the pension triple lock — I could go on , but I will not , Madam Deputy Speaker — and that we be do this so that , ultimately , people do not need charity for the fundamental of life ? could time be find to far debate such action ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . at this time of year , at Christmas , many of we in this House visit our local food bank . he be absolutely right that it be shock that , in 2024 , food bank be still need at all , let alone so prevalent . he highlight many of the action this Government be take to reduce their necessity . may I wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , your fantastic staff , and colleague across the House a merry Christmas ? Bathford village shop and caf é , a volunteer - run community enterprise , recently win an award for its fantastic work support the elderly , lonely and vulnerable , but there be a risk that it will soon lose its premise . the £ 150 million community ownership fund , which be due to run until March 2025 but be suspend because of the election , would make the vital difference between survival and closure . can we have an update on the community ownership fund ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise the plight of that enterprise in her constituency , and the valuable work that it do to support the elderly in her community . I will ensure that she get an update in short order on the future of the community ownership fund . may I wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , all the staff , and everyone work across the parliamentary estate a very merry Christmas ? this year , Royal Mail ' s Christmas stamp honour some of the most magnificent cathedral across the UK , and St Mary ' s Episcopal cathedral in the west end of Edinburgh , in my constituency of Edinburgh North and Leith , be one of they . the cathedral be consecrate in 1879 and be the only cathedral in Scotland to have three spire . I be sure many hon . friend will join I in welcome this recognition for the cathedral , but unfortunately every year many church be force to close , with over 3 , 000 have close in the last 10 year . will the Leader of the House schedule a debate in Government time to look at the future of church across the UK ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate St Mary ' s Episcopal cathedral on appear on the Christmas stamp this year . she raise an important issue that many hon . member across the House raise : the future of church and our place of worship . the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee be in his place and I be sure that he would welcome an application for such a debate . since be elect , I have be contact by a number of woman who have leave their partner or husband because of domestic abuse , and then have that abuse perpetuate during their dealing with the family court when determine access to their child or the maintenance payment that they receive . give the obvious concern about the prioritisation of access over child safety , the issue that female constituent have raise with I , and the fact that the family court operate in secrecy , which leave constituent gag and bind , unable to do anything about these thing , can we have a debate in Government time on how woman be treat in family court process , and how we can do well ? the hon . Lady raise a story with which many of we will be all too familiar as constituency mp . she will know that this Government take domestic abuse and domestic violence incredibly seriously . we have a very challenging target of halve violence against woman and girl over the next few year . we have an upcoming crime and police Bill and a victim Bill , and some the measure that she ask about will be include in that legislation . order . I have 17 colleague to call and around 15 minute leave , so if we be sharp , I can try to get everybody in . I call Johanna Baxter . may I wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all staff across the parliamentary estate a very happy Christmas ? in the last week , my constituent in Paisley and Renfrewshire South have receive the devastating news that the SNP - control integration joint board , run health and social care provision across Renfrewshire , be try to make £ 19 . 1 million in cut , have already close Montrose care home in my constituency early this year . give that the Scottish Government have just receive the big funding settlement since devolution , do the Leader of the House agree that they should use that money to protect the most vulnerable constituent in Paisley and Renfrewshire South ? I agree with my hon . friend . the Scottish Government have receive a record settlement from this Government as a result of our recent Budget , and they have no excuse for make the cut that she describe in health and social care . large area of rural South Hams in my constituency of South Devon be still struggle with almost prehistoric broadband speed . the company that be task with roll out full - fibre broadband be astonishingly allow to walk away from its contract after build the easy urban bit , leave all the hard - to - reach area behind . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on how the Government can underwrite the roll - out of high - speed broadband in area where it be not commercially viable , because broadband be as important to the rural economy as electricity ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . to rural community — indeed , to any community — broadband really be the fourth utility . it be vital to her constituent and many other in their daily life , for do what they need to do . we have inherit a pretty poor record when it come to roll - out , but we be try to speed it up through Project Gigabit and the share rural network . nevertheless , I have hear the hon . Lady ' s request for a debate . I wish to raise the case of my constituent Mitch Middleton , who have refractory primary central nervous system lymphoma in his brain . follow radiotherapy , the cancer have return and the NHS have give he six to 12 month to live . the treatment that he need be call chimeric antigen receptor T - cell therapy , and it be available on the NHS , but not for his circumstance , although haematologist know that it can be use to treat his cancer . the price tag be about £ 475 , 000 — too expensive . he be have to fundraise to fly abroad and have the treatment . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate on licensing and access to treatment for cancer , as there be more people who , sadly , can not access the care and treatment that they need ? my heart and thought go out to Mitch Middleton , the hon . Lady ' s constituent , and his family , who be deal with that . as my hon . friend know , improve diagnosis and treatment for cancer patient , especially those with rare cancer , be something that this Government want to get right . the issue of access to treatment and medicine on the NHS get raise with I regularly in this House . I therefore encourage my hon . friend to apply for a big debate on the subject . I wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all a Nadolig llawen — merry Christmas . the Leader of the House will be aware of the challenge face Welsh farmer . around 30 % of Welsh agricultural land be rent . change make to the agricultural property relief in the autumn Budget will force the sale of family tenancy farm on Ynys M ô n , displace generational farming . it be disappointing that no Wales - specific impact assessment have be make . can we have a debate in Government time on the Budget ' s impact on Welsh farming ? this Government support farmer and our rural community . we have put in an extra £ 5 billion for the farming budget over two year , which be one of the big increase that farming have see . I will , however , ensure that the hon . Lady ' s question be hear by the relevant Minister , and that she get a response . will the Leader of the House arrange for either a statement or a debate in Government time on the regulation of house in multiple occupancy ? without an article 4 direction in Stoke - on - Trent , we be at the mercy of developer who buy family home or terrace property and then convert they , use permit development right . that have a huge impact on amenity and on community feeling , and I think we could do a lot about that as a Government . my hon . friend be absolutely right . we all see the impact of permit development right and house in multiple occupation on our community . where they go unchecked , they can cause real problem , and also have a detrimental impact on the housing supply in an area . he will be aware that the Renters ' right Bill cover some of those issue , and we be due to consider the Bill on Report and in its final stage when we return from recess . a merry Christmas to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to everyone across Parliament and in my constituency . Thornbury and Yate resident drive home for Christmas will face a second festive season of chaos on local road , with at least one more still to come , thank to the ongoing closure of the A432 M4 over - bridge . there be no compensation for the small business affect , or for resident live on the now choke local country lane . give that hundred , if not thousand , of such post - tensioned bridge be build in the 1960 , ' 70 and ' 80 , this horror could be come to many constituency , but I have so far be unable to secure a debate on this important topic . will the Leader of the House ensure that we can discuss the issue in the new year ? I know that the hon . Lady have apply on a number of occasion for a debate on that important matter affect her constituency . Madam Deputy Speaker be in her Chair and have hear the hon . Lady ' s appeal again today . road closure of that kind , where bridge need that sort of work , can be absolutely devastating for local community and business , and I will certainly help she in try to secure an Adjournment debate on the subject . many of my constituent be concerned about the propose AQUIND interconnector . the planning decision be with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , in consultation , I believe , with the Ministry of Defence , after security concern be raise about the project . the previous Administration kick this decision down the road , so I can understand why this Government be do thing by the book and ensure that consultation go ahead . however , will the Leader of the House allocate time to a debate on ensure that the two Departments work together efficiently and co - operatively on secure a judgment on this issue , and will she seek clarity on when we can expect the consultation to conclude and a decision to be finally make on this project ? I be sure that my hon . friend will appreciate that I can not comment on a live planning case , but I understand that the Attorney General ' s Office have appoint a representative to act on behalf of AQUIND Ltd in relation to this matter , and I hope that she will get the answer that she need soon . happy Christmas , Jim Shannon . happy Christmas to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to everybody in the House . I shall probably say that again later , in the Adjournment debate . on 8 December , in the Partapur area of Meerut district in Uttar Pradesh , the police uncover a so - call religious conversion meeting , where approximately 50 Hindus be find participate peacefully in a Bible reading session . there be nothing sinister and nothing subversive go on . Pastor Vineet , along with 14 associate , be arrest under section 3 and 5 of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act . prior to his arrest , Pastor Vineet , who convert to Christianity a decade ago , have be organise similar prayer meeting in various location . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn such violation of freedom of religion or belief , and will she ask the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to raise this issue with its counterpart in India ? may I take this opportunity to wish the hon . Gentleman a merry Christmas ? I shall miss he over the next two or three week , as we will not be have business question . he be nothing if not consistent , because yet again he raise another important issue relate to the freedom of religion or belief . he will know that fcdo Ministers recently hold a roundtable meeting with a range of faith leader in Delhi to discuss many of these issue , and we will continue to raise concern with the Indian Government . last week , work for Wallacetown , a project in my constituency of Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock , be award the scottish public service award for community engagement . another project , Tailored Jobs , be a runner - up in the championing diversity and inclusion award category . will the Leader of the House join I in recognise this hard work and commitment to public service over the past year ? I be delighted to join my hon . friend in congratulate all those in her constituency , and in everybody else ' s constituency — especially at this time of year — who do fantastic volunteering and public service work and contribute greatly to public life in their community . happy Christmas to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and your team . Hitchin ' s fantastic festive knitted postbox topper campaign by Sue , Karen and other brilliant local volunteer have raise thousand of pound for Hitchin Choices , a local special educational need and disability youth group . I have the pleasure of visit the group last week and , while there , I quickly learn that I need to practise my ping - pong skill a lot more before go back . it be clear how value the group be by the young people who attend . will the Leader of the House join I in urge people to back this campaign , and can we have a statement from the Secretary of State about what more we can do to support such youth group as part of our wide SEND reform ? in the spirit of Christmas , as this be a knit postbox campaign , I do think that in his constituency , we could perhaps say , " let it sew , let it sew , let it sew . " I be sorry about that ; the pun be just get bad . my hon . friend have raise an important point about child need support . that point have be raise many time today . I be sure that if many member from across the House come together and apply for a Backbench Business debate on how we support the most vulnerable child and those with special educational need , it would be very well subscribe . Christmas be the time for musical festivity . one of my constituent in Wolverhampton West run Revolver Records , which be Europe ' s old indie rock label , have sign act such as the Stone Roses , the Scorpions and Tony Hadley . it have release 7 , 000 album over the past 42 year . my constituent have highlight the problem of independent music publisher not be pay for the use of copyright music material . do the Leader of the House agree that we need to support our business , include those in the music industry , so that they receive the payment that they be due ? will she please make time for a debate in the House about support our independent music publisher ? may I join my hon . friend in congratulate Revolver Records ? as a mancunian child of the ' 80 and ' 90 , I buy the original Stone Roses record that Revolver Records produce , so I be particularly pleased to do as he ask . he raise a really important matter about copyright and how the music industry be change with music stream and so on . I know that these issue be regularly raise in this House , and I will support he in do so . may I wish a Merry Christmas to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , the excellent House staff and of course the Speaker ' s staff , who have show extraordinary patience with I as I have ask many question about how this place work . in my constituency I be support somebody who have a real problem with cyber - bullying . her daughter have be suffer for over a year now with persistent online abuse . thing have become so bad that doctored letter purport to be from the NHS and the police have be send to she , and edit photo have also be send round her school . give what have happen , will the Leader of the House grant a debate on the urgent need to tackle cyber - bullying and online harassment , especially in educational setting ? I congratulate my hon . friend who , as a new Member in this House , have be one of the good attender both in business question and for many other statement . he have really get his foot under the table , so to speak . he raise the important issue of cyber - bullying . he will know that this Government be ensure the effective implementation of the Online Safety Act 2023 , and many of those measure be come on stream in the come month . a Westminster Hall debate on the subject be also likely to take place soon . Livingston have a considerable issue with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete in our public building , our social housing stock and many private home , too . for the first two category , remedy be be put in place , but the same can not be say for private housing , such as that in Chestnut Grove in Livingston . People buy their home in good faith and have they survey by reputable surveyor , but have now lose half the value of the property due to RAAC . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate on possible remedy for homeowner in Livingston and beyond who be in this predicament , and the potential role of the private sector , local government , devolve Governments and central Government in remedy this situation ? I be really sorry to hear of the ongoing situation with the slow remedying of RAAC in home and building for many of my hon . friend ' s constituent . he will appreciate that this be a devolved matter , but the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government be engage with the Scottish Government on respective approach to RAAC , and I hope that that will speed up remediation soon . resident in Maltby be furious about new plan for the old Maltby pit . I be join they to campaign ferociously against the plan , because the environmental risk be too great and the amount of lorry go through the village would be hugely damaging to the community . will the Government provide time for Parliament to look into this issue properly and to ensure that we can all stand up for Maltby ? my hon . friend will appreciate that I can not comment on specific plan , but I understand that Rotherham council ' s consultation on this application have be extend into the new year follow concern that he have raise , and I be sure that he will welcome that . he will be aware that we be bring forward the planning and infrastructure Bill next year , which be a significant piece of legislation , when he may want to raise these issue far . on Saturday , more than 100 veteran gather in my constituency to pay tribute to the late Sam Morgan , a former Royal Marine who tragically take his own life age just 36 . I meet a local group of veteran and the message that I have hear from they loud and clear be that we must do more to address the issue of veteran mental health . I be very grateful to my hon . friend , the Minister for Veterans and People , who be in his place , for agree to meet I and my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Anna Turley ) to discuss this issue with local veteran . will the Leader of the House give her assurance that this issue will be treat as a priority by this Government ? I be really sorry to hear of the tragic case of his constituent , Sam Morgan . the mental wellbeing and support for veteran be a priority for this Government . the Minister for Veterans and People be in his place and have hear my hon . friend ' s call today . we have lay on a number of debate around the issue face veteran , but I will ensure that we give further consideration to future debate as well . Merry Christmas to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to all staff and member of this House . whether it be delay from Bardon Mill station or a patchy bus service cut off village such as Heddon - on - the - Wall in Ovingham , public transport in rural area like the Tyne valley simply be not a priority for the previous Government . can the Leader of the House assure I that we will make progress on this issue , and will she provide Government time for a debate on the importance of economic growth and commuter wellbee in our most rural constituency ? first , I congratulate my hon . friend on his recent engagement to our colleague Hana . when I congratulate she , she say that it be about time , so at least he get there in the end . my hon . friend raise an issue that have be raise with I on many occasion : how the woeful infrastructure that many of we experience in the north of this country be hold back our region and our constituent . that be why we be prioritise transport infrastructure . we have huge investment go in , and I be sure that he will work with the Transport Secretary and other to ensure that it take effect in his constituency . the honour of ask the last business question of 2024 go to Tom Rutland . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and a very merry Christmas to you . like many mp , this year I hold my first Christmas card competition , and I be blow away by the talent of local primary school child . will the Leader of the House indulge I , and join I in congratulate the winner , Franco , Akithra and Lauren , and extend a massive thank you to the teacher in my constituency , who work tirelessly , day in and day out , not only to educate our young people but to unlock their potential and creativity ? many of we undertake Christmas card competition every year . they be one of the most wonderful thing that we take part in as mps . I congratulate not just my hon . friend ' s Christmas card winner but my own from Seymour Road academy in Manchester . I also congratulate he on get the very last business question of 2024 under his belt . as you be not in the Chair early , Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish you a very merry Christmas as well . I thank the Leader of the House for be so patient ; she have be on her foot for over an hour . Harland & Wolff with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement on the UK shipbuilding firm Harland & Wolff . I be pleased to inform the House that , subject to approval , a commercial deal have be reach that will protect job , drive investment and secure the future of the workforce . the deal will see Navantia UK , a specialist in shipbuilding , purchase all of Harland & Wolff ' s shipyard . as right hon . and hon . member will know , Harland & Wolff be a major employer in Belfast , with additional important yard at Arnish and Methil in Scotland and Appledore in Devon . for more than 150 year , the firm have build famous vessel for notable shipping organisation and company , include the Royal Navy , the Royal Mail and the White Star Line . this industry - lead deal , which we expect to complete shortly , will secure all four of Harland & Wolff ' s shipyard , protect around 1 , 000 job right across the UK . I hope that this announcement will come as some relief to Harland & Wolff ' s employee . I realise that this have be a deeply worrying time for they , and for everyone affect by the continue speculation over the firm ' s future . I welcome Navantia UK ' s intention to work closely with the relevant union to protect worker ' exist term and condition . that be important for the hard - work employee and community who have serve the firm over many year . I be first inform that Harland & Wolff be in serious financial difficulty on day one of the new Government . as the previous Government have open - book arrangement with the company , it be clear that the firm have significant and unsustainable debt . member will be aware that , at that point , Harland & Wolff be seek a Government guarantee or liquidity loan . have that occur , the british taxpayer would have be put at significant risk of lose million of pound , without the safeguarding of any yard , job or ship . I believe that the possibility of the Government provide such a guarantee or loan , which be much speculate on in the press , be prevent a market - base solution . the former Government ' s inability to make a decision leave the yard and the workforce in limbo . that be why I make it clear in my first week in this job that no taxpayer guarantee or loan would be provide . I be dismay that when I do so Conservative Members oppose that , know as they do that with a guarantee or loan there stand a significant risk of lose an eye - watering amount of taxpayer ' money . that be deeply irresponsible . crucially , the deal that have be agree will secure the delivery of the fleet solid support contract of the Ministry of Defence . the Government have work closely with Navantia UK on the future of the FSS programme . we have agree the absolute minimum of change to the contract to ensure its continue delivery . Navantia UK be the prime contractor of the Team Resolute consortium , which be charge with build three logistic support vessel for the Royal Navy , and it will maintain the require portion of UK - only build as part of this deal . it be also worth say that FSS be a vital component of the UK carrier strike capability , provide munition , spare and store . at a time when strategic alignment with our NATO ally be more critical than ever , the Government fully endorse this deal , which will also see Navantia UK invest significantly on commercial term in Harland & Wolff shipyard . anyone familiar with Navantia UK will know that the firm boast strong expertise in naval shipbuilding . I be pleased that , thank to this agreement , it will continue to bring the next generation of technology to its operation here in the UK . this be quite simply a good deal for the Harland & Wolff shipyard , a good deal for its employee , and a good deal for british shipbuilding . it provide the good opportunity to sustain our essential sovereign shipbuilding capacity and capability , now and over the long term . defence be at the heart of the industrial strategy that we have identify . defence be one of our eight growth - drive sector of the UK economy . that industrial strategy be unreservedly and unashamedly pro - business , engage on complex issue that be currently barrier to growth and investment . national security be one of the foundation of our plan for change . without it , we can not deliver on our milestone to raise living standard across the UK , with good , skilled , productive job like those at Harland & Wolff . UK shipbuilding alone support some 42 , 500 job nationwide and add £ 2 . 4 billion to the economy every single year . we recognise how important it be , as a vital pillar of our civil and defence industrial base . that be why my Department , together with the Ministry of Defence and the National Shipbuilding Office , be do everything that we can to bolster our world - class shipbuilding industry . that include the significant progress that we be make on key procurement programme . we have a major contract with BAE Systems , which have increase the order from three to eight Type 26 anti - submarine warfare frigate on the Clyde , and a contract with Babcock for five Type 31 general purpose frigate at Rosyth . those project have already bring significant recapitalisation investment to shipyard throughout the UK , and there be further procurement to be win , range from Border Force and local council to marine in - port service vessel at his Majesty ' s naval basis . the Government be absolutely committed to support vibrant , grow and successful shipbuilding and fabrication industry across the country , and I pay tribute to the skilled , diligent workforce who have make these industry what they be today . thank to the deal that have be announce , worker in Belfast , Arnish , Methil , Appledore and right across the country can be confident that the Government be squarely behind they , that UK ship - building be secure , and that together , as a United Kingdom , we will lead the sector into a well future . I hope that all worker in all four yard be now able to enjoy this Christmas with their family , as they should . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for an advance copy of his statement . the famous yellow gantry of Harland & Wolff stand tall , not only on the skyline of Belfast but in the history of our nation . it be difficult to overstate what Harland & Wolff mean to people in the community of Belfast , Appledore , Arnish and Methil . extended family across the country will welcome today ' s confirmation that the shipbuilding contract that we award in government will now proceed . there remain , however , many unanswered question , which I would be grateful if the Secretary of State could answer . if he can not answer they at the Dispatch Box today , I would be grateful if he or the Defence Secretary would write in the come day . first , at a time of enormous geopolitical uncertainty , can the Secretary of State confirm that there will be no change to the in - service date of the three fleet solid support ship , with the first ship enter service as expect in the fourth quarter of 2028 ? secondly , what funding or commitment , if any , have be provide by any part of the Government to Navantia to secure this finalise deal ? if so , which budget will that be appropriate from ? have he receive state aid clearance for the transaction and , if not , could he clarify the process by which that will now be obtain ? the Secretary of State say in his statement that the Department have agree the " absolute minimum of change to the contract , " but the statement provide absolutely nothing whatsoever as to what that actually conceal . can he guarantee , as Navantia promise as part of its original bid for the contract , that no less than 60 % of the whole supply chain activity will take place in the UK ? will he confirm that there be no additional work package beyond those originally envisage move from Belfast or anywhere in the UK to Puerto Real in C á diz ? above all , will he assure the worker and their family who be watch that the final assembly and system integration , which be where much of the high - value work sit for all three of those vital ship , will take place in Belfast , rather than in Navantia ' s parent shipyard in Spain ? the Secretary of State will appreciate that it be sometimes hard , though one try , to take he at his word after the number of impact on business over the past few month . the wide context — though welcome in respect of this particular contract and these defence job — be the large - scale uncertainty that our defence company , contractor , worker and employee face about the timetable for the Government to reach 2 . 5 % on defence spending . they do not have the certainty that Harland & Wolff worker now do this Christmas . we do not even have a timeline for a timeline as to when that 2 . 5 % will be hit , and we have see a degree of equivocation on exactly when the strategic defence review will be publish . again , I would be grateful if the Secretary of State clarify that or if a colleague write to I . it be , at the end of the day , action not word . we welcome this deal for Harland & Wolff and the certainty that it will provide to worker and their family , and I thank the Department official for their work on that , but there be still many question to be answer . I call the Secretary of State . have serve in his Department , I too will be pay close attention to the answer . I agree with the shadow Secretary of State on the iconic nature of this business ; its role in british history and in the community , particularly in Belfast ; and the esteem in which it be hold . I do feel he could have thank we for clean up another mess that the previous Government leave we , although perhaps that be too much to ask . after all , they could have make the decision to allow the market - base solution with support from Government that we have be able to achieve . despite those caveat , I welcome the fact that he welcome the news and recognise it as a substantial good news story for many worker as we go into Christmas and for the next year . I turn to the hon . Gentleman ' s specific question . on the delivery of the fleet solid support contract , the issue that the previous Government leave we may have some material impact , although there be no large , foresee delay to the delivery of the project at this stage . on the support to the business , there be no support go directly from Government to the business to subsidise the transaction . there have be amendment to the contract support by my Department and the Ministry of Defence . he ask for the detail . I will not reveal it in the House because of the commercial sensitivity , but I will find out whether there be a way to share that with he . on whether the deal be compliant with the Windsor framework and our commitment as a country under those arrangement , I be satisfied with all that . despite the fact that we will always respect those arrangement , we be the UK Government and we make decision for every part of the UK , with the regulatory approval , and I seek no one ' s permission to be the Secretary of State for Business and Trade across all the UK . on additional work package , there be no additional promise from the Government , although he will know that there be a 30 - year supply pipeline for shipbuilde in the UK and many opportunity , particularly in sector such as energy , maintenance and fabrication , and a whole range of function where member across the House would want to have a strong , diverse and competitive shipbuilding and maintenance sector . finally , on defence spending , the hon . Gentleman have a bit of a try - on . he ask what assurance the sector can have . the big assurance I can give be that we only ever hit that 2 . 5 % under Labour government . the fact be that we have a Labour Government with that commitment to the defence sector and its role — the ability to deliver maximum economic benefit for the UK , as well as that vibrant and important defence role — and we will continue to deliver on the way to that . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . congratulation to the Secretary of State . this be excellent news for the people of Appledore and of Northern Ireland and for worker across the Harland & Wolff supply chain . he might want to confirm that the peril of provide a Government guarantee be the possibility of entail a huge payout to a US - base hedge fund , which be the large creditor for Harland & Wolff . what be happen to the contract value for the FSS deal ? it be price at about £ 1 . 6 billion . have that contract value now go up ? crucially , what do the Secretary of State envisage for Harland & Wolff after that enormous contract be safely and soundly deliver ? I thank the Select Committee Chair for his kind word . I be delighted that we have be able to secure this future for Harland & Wolff . his assessment be right that the large creditor to Harland & Wolff when we take office be Riverstone , a significant US hedge fund . he be right to say that have we go ahead with that Government guarantee or loan , there would likely have be no real return to the taxpayer — no guarantee of job , shipyard or ship be build . that money would have go to the creditor . actually , in the commercial market - base solution that we have be able to broker , all creditor have behave responsibly , but , understandably , if anyone think the Government will come along and give they free money , they will hold out for that option . that be why it be so important to make that decision early on to secure this far well outcome . on the specific question , and I should have direct my answer to the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , there be no change to the UK - base content of the contract . as I say in the statement , there have be some change on commercial term , although they be relatively minor base on the overall value of the contract . on the future , I can tell the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) that the deal we have broker guarantee not only all four yard , but the job in the Belfast yard for three year and job in the three other yard for two year . we therefore have a chance not just for new investment come into those yard , but for the long - term future to be secure for a pipeline of work and energy and defence contract , which be a vibrant and successful opportunity for the future . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , who have up to two minute . this be an outstanding Christmas present for the 1 , 000 employee from Devon to the Isle of Lewis who will benefit from this decision and the deal that have be pull off by the Government . in the west country , we have a low - wage economy , and in the Appledore dockyard , which be not too far from my constituency of Torbay , this will go down extremely well , so congratulation be in order . that be in sharp contrast with the failure of the previous Administration on implement an industrial strategy , support our shipping industry and grow our economy over many year . the position that the Conservatives be take now be utterly shameful . how can we hardwire that long - term support for our shipping industry so that we see growth in this area and support for industry such as steel manufacturing ? I be extremely grateful to be able to deliver that outcome for the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent as a result of the announcement . he be right to say that successful UK Government policy must be about more than one - off solution to specific problem such as this . that be why we have adopt an ambitious industrial strategy that cover key sector of the economy and deliver exactly what he have ask for : consistency , long termism , and policy that cover every aspect of government rather than be see as lead by one Department . when we get it right , good long - term and effective public policy — work hand in hand with the private sector — deliver tremendous outcome for the country , and that be what we be seek . ultimately , any strategy be only as good as its delivery , and this statement be evidence that the Government will deliver . today ' s news be welcome . my right hon . friend know how vital the FSS ship be to our Royal Navy . RFA Fort Victoria , our only remain solid store support ship , be due to be decommission in 2028 , yet even before this rescue deal , new FSS ship be not due to enter service until 2032 . be there any scope at all to accelerate that and close the capability gap ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her expertise and insight on this matter . I understand the point that she make , but it be perhaps one for my colleague in the Ministry of Defence . I will ask they to engage with she on those ambition to remedy the absence of capability , but I believe that that would be challenging . I welcome the statement , and particularly the protection of the fleet solid support programme , but I join my Front - Bench colleague , my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , in say that we will have to wait to see the detail . in principle , however , the deal sound very encouraging indeed , and I congratulate the Secretary of State and all his team and official for get it over the line . he mention world - class shipbuilding in the UK . he say from the Dispatch Box that national security be the foundation of the plan for change , and his Department ' s online statement talk about sovereign capability , but do he accept that without steel , ship can not be build ? will he take this opportunity to say what more can be do , in a dangerous world , to reduce the UK ' s increase reliance on import from elsewhere , include from Sweden and Asia , so that ship can be deliver in time of conflict or war ? I very much share the right hon . Gentleman ' s aspiration . he will know that most defence steel be high end — they be specialised and tend to come from electric arc furnace — and one challenge that we have inherit relate to the two remain blast furnace site in the UK . we have improve the situation in Port Talbot , but we could not change direction , with the blast furnace go offline before the arc furnace be instal . we have inherit an even more challenging position in relation to Scunthorpe , but we be work closely with the company to find a solution . I believe that we be miss real capability in the UK . I can see the economic and business case for plate mill , for instance , and for the long - term question of direct reduce iron in steel production . the steel strategy be part of deliver on that . a whole range of horizontal policy , particularly on energy price , would have to be in a corresponding position for we to do that . the fact that the UK have such a small steel sector relative to the size of our economy make we an outlier among develop nation and suggest that there be a real evidence base for improve it , and I will work with any Member of the House to deliver that . Merry Christmas , Madam Deputy Speaker . this be a great Christmas for Methil . I thank the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the Secretary of State for Scotland , and all those in Government who have work so hard to secure this deal , which have save 200 skilled job and apprenticeship at the Methil yard in my constituency , and 150 job at Arnish in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) . do the Secretary of State agree that it be vital that all level of Government , trade union and stakeholder in the future of the Methil yard continue to work together so that , with GB Energy headquarter in Scotland , the yard can fulfil its huge potential in contribute to our ambition for growth in the renewable industry in Scotland and the UK ? I thank my hon . friend for all his support and repeat submission to the Department . I know how significant this matter be for his community , and he have fulfil his role as a Member of Parliament in articulate it at every level of Government . I say the same for our hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) — I visit the arnish shipyard during the election campaign . it be so important in a job such as mine , and in a Department such as mine , to recognise that we must deliver for the whole United Kingdom . the diverse challenge we face do not detract from the fact that we must deliver for every part of the UK , and that be what we plan to do . I also thank my hon . friend for his comment about my official , who work very hard to deliver this outcome . I agree with he about the huge potential out there not just for shipbuilding , fabrication and maintenance , but for energy in particular . there be real optimism for the future , but it require the kind of foundation that we have put in place through this agreement . I add my congratulation to the Government for get this agreement over the line , but when will we get their defence industrial strategy ? so far we have have only a rather lengthy statement of intent . we need to reindustrialise our defence industrial base in order to face modern challenge , and that be particularly essential give the threat we face from the east of Europe at this time . that be very difficult to do in government , because the Treasury hate his stuff , as the Secretary of State may already have discover , but we will hold he to account on what he describe as lead this sector into future growth , and indeed on reindustrialise our steel industrial base and so on , so that we have the self - sufficiency that be vital for the defence of the country . I encourage the Secretary of State to be brave in respond to the point about the Treasury . absolutely , Madam Deputy Speaker . I very much welcome the question and would like to put on the record that I have only good thing to say about his Majesty ' s Treasury at all time . [ Laughter . ] it be true ; I mean that . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to say that there be great imperative — with a particular degree of responsibility in the defence part of the industrial strategy — in the challenge we face . it be imperative not just that we work closely with colleague in the Ministry of Defence on procurement issue and government - to - government sale , in which my Department play a major role , but that we address wide regulatory issue . as the hon . Gentleman may know , the Department recently do work on environmental , social and governance criterion to ensure that they do not prevent investment into defence company . there be issue with small and medium - sized enterprise in the defence sector struggle to access bank account — not through a prohibition on defence , but perhaps because of a lack of understanding about such commercial contract be different from those in other part of the economy . there be a whole range of issue that we must get right , but I think that , in the main , member across the House share his aspiration and objective . he have be a voice of expertise and authority on these issue throughout my time in Parliament , and I be grateful for his engagement on they . today ' s announcement will surely be well receive by the House , the country , the Royal Navy and the worker directly affect , especially give the previous Government ' s lack of industrial strategy . alongside the fantastic announcement for seafarer and worker condition and protection , the agreement show the Government ' s commitment to the vital maritime and industrial sector . shipbuilding be once a proud industry and the backbone of the community in my city of Portsmouth , but it be decimate by the previous Government . what assessment have the Secretary of State make of the deal ' s wide implication for the UK economy , and specifically for the shipbuilding and defence sector ? I recognise the role that shipbuilding have play in my hon . friend ' s city . I grow up in Sunderland — part of what be once one of the major civil shipbuilding location in the world — and I recognise the identity and pride that come with that industrial heritage . in many case , people feel that it be something of the past , but in this statement we be stress exactly what she say about the contemporary contribution and the opportunity for the future , about which we should be excited . there be a whole range of increase need to shipbuilding expertise , particularly in the energy sector — offshore wind , for example , create a range of demand for different type of maintenance and supply vessel — so this should be an optimistic story for the future . sometimes I feel that the wide british public perhaps do not understand the number of job or the economic benefit that come from such a sector , so it be always good to make that case from the Dispatch Box — as my hon . friend do every day from the Back Benches . I call John Cooper , a member of the Business and Trade Committee . I congratulate this Front - Bench team and the wide Government on land this deal in the face of what the Secretary of State have euphemistically call the " headwind " — I would call they a full - force gale — create by the Budget . do Navantia raise concern about the forthcoming Employment Rights Bill ? it swing the pendulum very much in favour of trade union , which , as we know , be very often red in tooth and claw . be that an issue in land the deal ? no , it be not — it be a good try , but no . first , the employment right framework in most part of continental Europe be very different from our own . secondly , as I have repeatedly say , the change in the Employment Rights Bill do raise term and condition for some of the lowest - pay worker in the country , but many company in the UK — particularly large one — already operate to a significantly high level . shipbuilding be historically a fairly unionised sector , so I do not think there be any concern or worry in that field — to be frank , the trade union in that sector often fight hard for the industry than former conservative Governments . I understand the try - on point that the hon . Gentleman be make , but no , the Employment Rights Bill have not be a problem . in term of wide UK Government policy , this have be a great endorsement of our EU reset and our willingness not to revisit the argument of Brexit , but to work more closely with friend and ally in Europe , to ensure that we be get the maximum opportunity for the UK and always work in our national interest . I congratulate the Government on this announcement , which be incredibly welcome news for all those worker who get to keep their job as a result . it be a shame that the Conservative Front - Bench spokesman choose to attack the Government over the 2 . 5 % target while respond to the statement , and ask for a timeline for when we be go to deliver 2 . 5 % . fourteen year be a timeline , and the Conservatives do not meet that target even once . if we be to avoid situation like this in the future , we need to have a modern industrial strategy . what progress have we make towards that strategy ? how do it feed into our wide growth mission , and how will it support the UK economy to grow over the next Parliament ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his comment on the deal and for his observation about the question from the Opposition Front - Bench spokesman about the 2 . 5 % target . on the modern industrial strategy that we be create , we have have an incredible response to our Green Paper — some 22 , 000 individual answer to the question it ask — show that there be a huge appetite from industry across the board , both in the UK and abroad , to engage with what the Government be seek to do . again , I stress that that should always be on a cross - party basis ; there be nothing in that Green Paper that anyone of any political stripe should be able to oppose . it be base on our national interest and the goal of be more competitive and business - friendly , succeed to a great degree on the world stage . this week , we have our first meeting of the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council , with some tremendous representative with expertise across the board — UK industry , academic and business figure . it be an incredibly exciting time . this be just one component of our growth mission , but clearly an important one , alongside area of work for I such as the small business plan that we be put together . I genuinely believe that everyone should be excited about the future . I call Alison Griffiths , a member of the Select Committee . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be sure you will have notice that the Secretary of State do not answer one question , which be whether he would clarify that the final assembly and system integration will take place in Belfast , rather than in the Navantia shipyard in Spain . I be sorry if the hon . Lady miss it , but I be clear that what we have announce today do not change the provision in the original contract agree by the former Conservative Government . what have change be that we have save all four of these yard , at a time when we could have lose they all through the inability of the previous Government to take the action require , so it be an incredibly positive story . we have save the position of those yard and guarantee those job , and not for month but for year to come . I take this opportunity to wish you a merry Christmas , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the Secretary of State very much for what be wonderful news for all four site across the UK . obviously , I be go to be slightly biased towards the two in Scotland , one in Arnish on the Isle of Lewis and the other in Methil in Fife — that be very welcome news in the week before Christmas . I also thank the Government for their co - operation with the Scottish Government over the past month , particularly in the early day when UK Labour have come into government , and I put on record the work that the Deputy First Minister of Scotland , Kate Forbes , have contribute . I have a couple of question . first , give that we be move forward , be the worker ' current term and condition go to continue as they be ? secondly , I have listen to what have be say about future contract . we know that both yard in Scotland will be protect for the next two year , but can the Secretary of State tell we a little bit more about the long - term sustainable footing , not least because this company have change hand three time in the past four year ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his observation and question . it be really important to we that we keep all four yard together — there have be an assessment that , for understandable reason , the Belfast yard be more commercially valuable , so there be a real chance that any unstructured rescue package could have lose the two scottish yard . there be question mark about those yard in particular , so keep the business together and protect the future of those worker be hugely important to we , and I be delighted that we have be able to achieve that . the job guarantee for the non - Belfast yard will last for two year . the guarantee be for 90 % of the overall job number , simply to provide the usual degree of flexibility in run that business , but that guarantee cover the majority of the workforce and keep they in place . the deal also come with investment in those scottish yard , so whatever the future hold , those yard will be even more competitive and more able to bid for the kind of contract that will secure the long - term prosperity we be all seek . I be always genuinely willing to work with colleague across any part of the UK to secure the kind of outcome we have achieve today , and I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman for recognise that . as someone who have consistently and regularly call for more shipbuilding to take place in the UK rather than be export , today ' s statement be good news , and I congratulate the Secretary of State on announce this decision . he have clearly say that further order have be add as a result of this deal . what further defence and — much more importantly — commercial opportunity be there for Harland & Wolff to acquire contract from across the world , rather than build elsewhere ? I share the hon . Gentleman ' s aspiration and recognise his call for UK shipbuilding to have a high priority in future than it have in the past . to be specific on what I be say in the statement , there have be a revision to the value of the fleet solid support contract ; it have require a little bit of additional support — but not greatly and on commercial term — in order to deliver it . there be not promise of additional work package on top of the contractual agreement make by the previous Government , but because Navantia UK be such a world - renowne expert builder of shipping of all size , as well as the investment that come with this deal and the more competitive nature of the yard in future , there be genuine ground for optimism . I see real opportunity in fabrication and maintenance , but particularly in energy . I also think that a little bit of competitive diversification in the military shipbuilding sector ' s supply chain be welcome , create well value for money in procurement . across the board , this be a positive story for Harland & Wolff and its employee , but as the hon . Gentleman have describe , it be also a positive story for UK shipbuilding . this announcement be really good news , and everybody across the House will welcome it . it be probably time to break out the Christmas cake and the mince pie early , because there be good news come and the Secretary of State have deliver it today . this morning I speak to my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , who have work tirelessly with the company to secure this progress . we all agree that it be great news , particularly for the 1 , 000 - strong workforce in Belfast , and especially in the run - up to Christmas — well do . my right hon . friend will be at the yard with the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland this afternoon , probably in about an hour ' s time . if the national shipbuilding strategy be to mean anything , it must be that the Government invest in skill and capacity throughout the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . do the Secretary of State agree that more could be do to increase research and innovation support across the United Kingdom and , in particular , in Northern Ireland ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for ask what I think will be my last question of the year . I would particularly like to recognise what he say about his colleague , the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) . obviously , he have a constituency interest and a lead role in Northern Ireland , and I think he understand the decision we have to make . we have to explain in confidence to all colleague affect why the initial decision on the guarantee alone be not the right way forward , but that we be commit to the kind of solution we have announce today . I be extremely grateful for be able to work with the right hon . gentleman on that . it be great news that he be go to the yard today ; my colleague the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and the Minister for Industry be also in Belfast today , and I understand that the Secretary of State for Scotland will be at one of the yard in Scotland too . on the hon . Gentleman ' s point about innovation and research and development , that be the basis on which we have to compete . whether in the sector of aerospace , automotive or shipbuilding , what we need be high - end , sophisticated R & D , innovation and world - lead product . that be what we have in many of our advanced manufacturing sector , but it be such a competitive world that we have to maintain that edge . in particular , R & D be an area where core support and core funding between Government and industry have real benefit . we have see that in lot of sector — maybe not to the degree we have need in shipbuilding , but let we look at that for the future and approach the next year with some real positivity . Ukraine it be day 1 , 030 of Putin ' s illegal , full - scale invasion of Ukraine , and I would like to update the House on the current situation in Ukraine . Ukrainians be approach their third Christmas since Putin launch his illegal , full - scale assault . russian force be over 1 , 000 day into a war Putin think would be over in less than a week . the ukrainian people have pay a horrendous price for Putin ' s aggression , and it be testament to their grit , determination and courage that they have mount such a heroic defence of their country . the UK have stand with Ukraine since day one , and I can confirm to the House that yesterday the Defence Secretary travel to Kyiv to meet his ukrainian counterpart , Defence Minister Umerov , to discuss a joint plan for 2025 and to underline the UK ' s commitment to support Ukraine for as long as it take . it may be useful for the House if I provide an operational update . accord to our late Defence Intelligence insight , the frontline remain unstable . russian force continue to conduct attack and advance at several location along the front in eastern Ukraine , and have make accelerate gain in recent month in central Donetsk oblast . the conflict be currently class as attritional , and it be brutal . it be also appropriate for I to confirm to the House that north korean troop be currently engage in offensive combat operation in Russia ' s Kursk oblast , where around 11 , 000 dprk — democratic People ' s Republic of Korea — troop have be deploy . our assessment be that it be highly likely they have sustain significant combat casualty , while achieve only limited tactical gain . our assessment far indicate there have be over 750 , 000 russian casualty since the beginning of the full - scale invasion , with the grim milestone of 1 million Russians dead and wound likely to be reach within approximately six month . this Government be clear that the frontline of british and european security run through Ukraine . our support for the ukrainian people be iron - clothe . since Russia ' s full - scale invasion , one of the strength of the UK approach under successive government have be the significant cross - party support from all party in this House . that characterise our period in opposition , and it have continue while we have be in government , and I be grateful to the Conservative party and , indeed , all party in this House for their continue support for Ukraine . in total , the UK have now provide £ 12 . 8 billion of assistance to Ukraine , and we remain a lead donor of military equipment . the Prime Minister have commit in person to President Zelensky that the UK will give £ 3 billion of military aid each year for as long as Ukraine need . the year 2025 will be a critical one for the war . President Zelensky have lay out his victory plan , build around timely and effective military support , security guarantee , long - term deterrence and rebuild Ukraine by unleash the country ' s economic potential , and he have speak of his desire to secure a just peace from a position of strength . today , I would like to outline to the House how we will step up the UK ' s international leadership on Ukraine into 2025 , include a new £ 225 million package of military support — while in Kyiv , the Defence Secretary pledge that and confirm it in his meeting with Defence Minister Umerov — and our five priority area for UK defence support in 2025 . first , we will far increase and strengthen Ukraine ' s military capability . our new £ 225 million package of military support include £ 186 million of key military equipment through the UK - administer international fund for Ukraine , with £ 92 million to bolster the ukrainian navy ' s fight power , include advanced reconnaissance drone , the late generation of uncrewed surface vessel , loitering munition and mine countermeasure drone . the package also include £ 68 million for air defence equipment , include new radar , decoy land equipment and cutting - edge counter - drone electronic warfare system , as well as £ 26 million to provide support and spare part for previously deliver critical military system to keep they in the fight . our step - up military support package include £ 39 million to deliver 1 , 000 counter - drone electronic warfare system , together with respirator and equipment to protect ukrainian frontline force . we be also gift explosive charge to equip more than 90 , 000 155 mm artillery round , compatible with the dozen of british Army AS - 90 self - propel artillery gun previously provide by the United Kingdom . Ukraine ' s frontline be also the frontline of our security . I know the whole House will recognise that this late military support package be firmly in the UK ' s national security interest and that it will strengthen the resilience of our own defence industrial base , too . yesterday , the House pass , with total cross - party support , the Financial Assistance to Ukraine Bill . this allow the Government to fulfil our commitment to provide Ukraine with an additional £ 2 . 26 billion through our contribution to the G7 extraordinary revenue acceleration loan scheme , which will be repay use the profit from the immobilised russian sovereign asset , enable Ukraine to buy military equipment to defend itself and its freedom against russian aggression . take together , this represent the high amount of UK military support since the war begin . secondly , we will continue train Ukraine ' s armed force throughout 2025 , add to the 51 , 000 ukrainian troop already train here in the United Kingdom as part of Operation Interflex , the multinational training programme we deliver alongside 12 partner nation . have meet Royal Air Force - train ukrainian pilot at Operation Interstorm and ukrainian soldier train by the British Army and our partner in trench dig in the english countryside , I know at first hand the difference our training make . each person we train — each Ukrainian we train — be a message to Putin that Ukraine do not stand alone . we will continue to provide the training that Ukraine need and be flexible to meet its requirement . thirdly , we will build the defence sector in Ukraine , the UK and across Europe to leave Putin in no doubt but that Ukraine be not alone in this fight and that there be the ability to sustain Ukraine in the fight . in the autumn , I accompany UK defence company on a trade mission to Kyiv to discuss opportunity for the long - term co - operation that can reinforce Ukraine ' s defence industry as a powerful deterrent against Russia and a powerful asset for Euro - Atlantic security . this Government be also deliver on the defence industrial support treaty sign with Ukraine in July , and we have make £ 3 . 5 billion of export finance available to buy military capability . we look forward to finalise a series of mutually agree project that will simultaneously bolster Ukraine ' s defence and the UK ' s defence industrial resilience in due course . fourthly , we will continue to work with ally to step up international support . let I again be clear with the House that this Government will work with Ukraine to progress down its irreversible path towards NATO membership . we be work with the Ukraine defence contact group as well as ally far afield to increase the tempo of support and impose further cost on Russia . I can confirm that there will be a notable gear shift in January , when we commence delivery of ten of thousand of drone through the maritime and drone capability coalition that the UK be lead with our norwegian and latvian partner . fifthly , we will reinforce the cross - Government effort to increase pressure on Russia , include close work between the Ministry of Defence and the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to increase diplomatic pressure and sanction . the MOD be work hand in glove with the fcdo through our recently form joint unit on Ukraine to maximise the impact of UK defence support by starve the Kremlin of the resource it need to sustain its war effort . we will continue to co - ordinate these sanction with like - minded ally around the world to deny Russia ' s war machine the good , technology and revenue it need to sustain its illegal war , and we will continue to expose Russia ' s malicious cyber - attack and disinformation effort , and the hostile operation of its intelligence service . as we prepare to return to our constituency to see our love one over Christmas , I know the thought of the whole House will be with all those Ukrainians unable to do so . many be face a Christmas and a new year of ongoing assault and aerial bombardment of their frontline , their home , their town , their city and their critical energy infrastructure . so 2025 be set to be a critical year in the conflict and our resolve will not falter . President Zelensky have speak of his desire for a just peace , and the Government be in no doubt that a just and last peace be only achievable by strengthen Ukraine ' s hand . that be why this week the Defence Secretary in Kyiv , and I as the Minister at the Dispatch Box , have set out how we will increase Ukraine ' s military capability , how we be commit to training thousand more ukrainian troop , how we will strengthen defence industrial co - operation , how we will harness the support of Ukraine ' s ally , and how we will increase pressure on Russia . this be the sure route to a just and last peace in Ukraine and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for provide advance sight of his statement , which we on this side of the House warmly welcome . as the Minister note , last month mark the grim milestone of the 1000th day of Russia ' s second unprovoked and illegal invasion of Ukraine . ever since russian troop cross the border , and even before , we have stand shoulder to shoulder with our ukrainian friend . indeed , relative to the size of our Army , we have gift more military equipment to Ukraine than any other NATO partner , include the United States . as well as train Ukrainians in the UK since 2014 , follow the first russian invasion , we have provide they with everything from nlaw through to Challenger main battle tank and almost all of our AS - 90 heavy howitzer . we have also provide Ukraine with Brimstone and Storm Shadow missile and a very considerable amount of ammunition , everything from small arm to 155 mm round , as well as help to procure other ammunition on their behalf from around the globe . when offer a way out of Kyiv immediately after the second russian invasion in February 2022 , President Zelensky defiantly retort : " I need ammunition , not a ride . " we in Britain have subsequently provide quite a bit of it . even more recently , we provide very high - tech system such as advanced drone and the DragonFire anti - drone laser , which we initially procure and which the Ukrainians be put into service . no one can doubt the commitment of Britain in support of Ukraine , and we be pleased to see this bipartisan approach continue under this government , but we should not lose sight of the fact that at the end of the day Ukraine be a sovereign nation and only ukrainian people can subsequently determine their own future . I have five specific question for the Minister on his statement . first , as he be aware , we have be train ukrainian troop in Britain since 2014 , initially under Op Orbital and now Op Interflex . the key element of this be train troop to operate nlaw in sophisticated anti - tank ambush , a capability vividly demonstrate in video footage shortly after russian force cross the border . without this critical training , it be no exaggeration to say the Russians might well be have lunch in Kyiv today . with that in mind , what further training do the Minister foresee for ukrainian troop , what additional support will we provide , and will any of this training now be deliver in - country ? secondly , how much of the £ 186 million from the international fund for Ukraine , which we co - ordinate , be from the UK and how much be from our ally ? what , in other word , be the UK proportion ? thirdly , as the statement specifically refer to the supply of respirator , can the Minister confirm intelligence report that the Russians have now even resort to limited use of blister agent - type chemical weapon in Ukraine ? be that true ? fourthly , we have be unwavere in our military , political and diplomatic support for Ukraine as well as generous in provide equipment and ammunition . however , this raise concern about replenish our own war stock , as highlight by the Defence Committee , which I serve on in the previous Parliament , include , indeed , on that inquiry . six month ago the Chief of the General Staff announce clear objective to double the lethality of the british Army by 2027 and treble it by the end of the decade . what step be be take to replenish the UK ' s war stock ? more specifically , how do the Government plan to achieve the CGS ' s ambitious commitment ? finally , the change the Minister have announce today clearly feed into the ongoing strategic defence review , yet there be emerge medium report that the much - anticipate SDR publication may be delay until June next year to now coincide with the comprehensive spending review . minister now appear to be stick to a mantra that the SDR will be publish in the first half of next year , which be commensurate with that timeline . with the worsen international situation and give that the initial conclusion have apparently already be see by the Defence Secretary and even the Prime Minister , we can not afford six month of paralysis by analysis while the Government decide how to respond . so can the Minister end on a positive note and tell the House today when the SDR will be publish and assure we it will not be as late as next June ? Slava Ukraini . rise — before I call the Minister , let I say that , Mr Darling , I can see that you be bob , and if you stay in the Chamber , I will make sure to call you at an appropriate time . I thank the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) for his party ' s continue support for our friend in Ukraine . he be certainly right that the initial provision of anti - tank weapon make a significant contribution in the early day , and the provision of a whole array of capability in every month since enable Ukraine to stay in the fight , which be absolutely essential . today ' s statement update the House on the additional military capability that we be provide to Ukraine , and on how we will continue to do that . the Defence Secretary have already announce that we will extend Operation Interflex until the end of 2025 . that be good news . we have always be clear that we will flex the provision of Interflex training to suit the need of our ukrainian friend . the right hon . Gentleman be right that there be initial skill training , and we now train different skill , and that training be deliver differently . as the Defence Secretary have say , we will need to make the training a well fit for what the Ukrainians need . we need to make it easy for the Ukrainians to access it , and we work with the Ukrainians to help and motivate they to mobilise more recruit . the right hon . Gentleman will understand if I do not help Putin by reveal our plan , and any conversation that we may have with our ukrainian friend , but we will update the House in due course . the international fund for Ukraine be a really important part of the mix . I can get the right hon . Gentleman the full detail on that , and about our share , and I will place that in the Library of the House . I also place on record our wide support for all our international colleague who be contribute to that fund . the chemical weapon assessment have a high classification , and the right hon . Gentleman will understand if I do not go into the full detail of russian capability and any use , but the provision of respirator be a really important part of ensure that Ukraine ' s frontline troop be well able to defend themselves . we have a plan to replenish our stock ; it will come alongside the defence industrial strategy . that intent be publish by the Defence Secretary a few week ago , and that will be part of the strategic defence review . the mantra that the SDR will be publish in the first half of next year be not , I be afraid , new ; it be the exist government position . however , I can reassure the right hon . Gentleman that the intent be to publish it in the spring . work continue on that , and I be grateful to Lord Robertson and his review team for the thorough work that they be do . the aim be to make sure that the review be not just labour ' s defence review , but be a defence posture that be support cross - party , so that we can ensure that our national security be strong , and so that we can deter aggression and defeat it if necessary . I call the Chair of the Select Committee on Defence . I be grateful to the diligent Minister for advance sight of his statement . it be good to chat with the Secretary of State on his return from Ukraine , and I welcome his pledge , while there , of a £ 225 million package of support for Ukraine , because as the Minister rightly highlight , Ukraine ' s frontline be the frontline of our own security . can the Minister provide further detail , however ? after the UN Secretary - General ' s statement last week about turbocharge defence , can the Minister provide further detail of discussion with NATO and other ally , in particular our US friend , include recent discussion between the Prime Minister and President - elect Trump , on the international defence step be take at this critical juncture ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s support for the military package outline today . the UK Government will increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of our gdp , and a path for that increase will be lay out in due course at future fiscal event . we will publish the strategic defence review , which will set out , perhaps more importantly , what we seek to spend any money on ; we can then look at what capability we need to develop and how that take we far . we continue to speak with our NATO ally through the SDR process , to make sure that the UK ' s defence offer be a " NATO first " offer that allow more interoperability and support our NATO ally , especially on NATO ' s eastern flank . I look forward to be able to speak more about that in due course to my hon . friend ' s Committee . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you — [ interruption . ] sorry , I be just try not to step on the right hon . Jennie . it be absolutely right that we give our brave ukrainian ally the support that they need to resist Putin ' s war machine . I be proud of how our country have stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine in defence of freedom and democracy , yet with the loom threat of a trump presidency , America ' s ongoing commitment to Ukraine look increasingly uncertain . it should serve as a wake - up call to we all . if the United States pull back its support , Europe must step up . the Liberal Democrats want to see the UK take a lead within Europe . that must begin with concrete action , such as seize frozen russian asset to bolster Ukraine ' s defence , as I and other speak about in this House just yesterday , and reverse damage conservative cut to our armed force . those step will strengthen Ukraine ' s hand and Britain ' s security . robust financial and humanitarian assistance be also vital . just a few week ago , Liberal Democrat Foreign Affairs , Defence and Home Office spokespeople meet a delegation of ukrainian mps , who stress the urgent need for ongoing tangible support . their message be clear : Europe ' s role have never be more important . the Liberal Democrats stand firmly behind these measure . the impending Trump presidency put the safety of Ukraine and Europe in doubt . do the Minister agree that it be time for the UK to take a lead within Europe on defence and security , and will he commit to work with his european counterpart to make sure that Ukraine be support fully ? the Minister also mention Russia ' s attack on Ukraine ' s energy network . can he outline what work the Government be do to support Ukraine in get electricity generator and solar panel instal across the country to keep it function ? if we be seek to protect anyone in this House , it will certainly be the right hon . Jennie . the hon . Gentleman ask a number of question . it be right that we seek to far strengthen sanction against Russia . the Government have make a number of further development , such as sanction the russian shadow fleet , seek to cut off its oil flow . as the Bill set out yesterday , we be take further step in legislation on frozen russian asset . we will continue to support our armed force . the strategic defence review will set out the future shape of the armed force , and the path to 2 . 5 % will be lay out by Treasury colleague in due course . this be a cross - Government approach . the hon . Gentleman ' s final question about energy infrastructure be profound , and it allow I to echo the word from our colleague in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , who have provide additional support for Ukraine ' s energy infrastructure and energy production . it be vital that we continue that support , because it be not just with missile and ammunition that we need to support Ukraine . we need all the support to keep that country go , to keep it in the fight , and to enable its people to get through a tough winter . I once again commend my hon . friend on his ongoing support for Ukraine and his important trade visit to Kyiv recently . from that visit , he will know that this war have advance military technology , particularly in the area of loitering munition and anti - unmanned aerial vehicle technology . I note that we have the defence industrial support treaty , as well as our own defence industrial strategy . what progress be we make on joint venture with ukrainian defence company , and on base some of that defence capability here , for our future security and the security of Ukraine ? I thank my hon . friend for his work in support of Ukraine . he be a consistent champion , work cross - party , too . it be right that we seek to improve and grow our technology , especially around drone and in autonomy . the treaty we sign with Ukraine enable it effectively to use Defence Equipment and Support as its own procurement agency to initiate more contract , more quickly , not only enable support for ukrainian industry , but allow UK industry to work with it to deploy more capability fast . he be absolutely right that the pace of change in Ukraine mean that we need to continue to invest in research and development , and to learn the lesson . that be one reason why the Defence Secretary make the announcement about retire the british Army ' s Watchkeeper system — a 14 - year - old drone — in favour of more modern system that we hope to be able to announce in the SDR . this be a great opportunity for I to wish the Father of the House a happy Christmas . when Russia cruelly invade Finland in 1940 , she not only take territory with force majeure , but impose neutrality on that country for 50 year . there be a phrase for it : finlandisation . I know our influence be not overwhelming , but when it come to the Trump presidency , will the Minister assure I that the Government will stiffen the sinew of the Trump presidency and ensure that there be absolutely no question of any war aim of Russia ' s be achieve , namely take territory and neutralise Ukraine ? we therefore must fast - track NATO membership . I thank the Father of the House for his question . he be right that we need to continue our support . that be why — from this Dispatch Box today and in Government statement since we come to office — we have make it clear that we will support Ukrainians for as long as it take , include on their irreversible path to NATO membership . it would be wrong for I to speculate on the policy of the new US Administration , but it be certainly true that the safety of the United States , as well as the safety of the United Kingdom , rely on Putin not win in Ukraine . that be why we be continue our support for our ukrainian friend . when the new Administration take office , further such discussion will be able to take place directly . may I just say how strongly I welcome the statement ? our commitment across this House to defend Ukraine must be firm . do the Minister agree that the cross - party nature of the UK support have be and will remain a critical feature of our support for Ukraine as a staunch ally ? the way that this House have come together on Ukraine — not just the provision of military equipment , but our diplomatic effort and our support for Ukrainians — be a testament to all party in this House . we be make sure that we be put our national security and that of our friend ahead of any partisan desire . I expect that the Government and every single party in the House will continue that , because gap in our position be where Putin will seek to prosper . that be why maintain cross - party support be essential for our overall UK approach . I be grateful to all right hon . and hon . member for continue that today . I welcome the Minister ' s confirmation of the Government ' s support for Ukraine ' s eventual membership of NATO . as a step along that road , will he look at the UK take a lead in far integrate Ukraine into the joint expeditionary force ? the joint expeditionary force be an important part of the complementary military alliance with NATO , enable the beer - drink nation of northern Europe , as they be often describe , to come together . it be important that that geographical centre point in northern Europe be maintain , especially in the Baltic sea and the high north . however , there be discussion around learn lesson by Ukraine have more participation alongside JEF nation . it be certainly true that many of the JEF nation have be the most forward - lean of all our NATO ally in provide support for Ukraine , and I expect that to continue . I welcome my hon . friend ' s statement , and I urge he onwards . I rise to demonstrate my support for the stand we be take in support Ukraine . my thought be with the people of Ukraine , who be enter their third Christmas in this conflict . Europe have learn the harsh lesson from deal with dictator in the past . do he agree that at a time when there be potential for change in America ' s policy towards Ukraine , Europe need to stand together , and to make sure that we do not allow Putin to succeed in any way , because the consequence of that for future generation could be damaging indeed ? it be certainly true that this Government will continue to support Ukraine , and to encourage more of our NATO ally to donate to Ukraine and to improve their own defence , so that we act as a deterrent , and so that the experience of Ukraine be not inflict on any other NATO member . I hope that more ukrainian people will hear the Christmas message of peace and hope as we go into next year , but it will be a very tough Christmas and new year for many of they . I assure my hon . friend that there will be no change in UK support for Ukraine , whatever happen over the come year . we will continue to work closely with our european and NATO ally to make sure that what we be provide to Ukraine , include in training and support , will enable they to stay in the fight and be in the good possible position for the future . we have see the proliferation of drone warfare in Ukraine as never before . I be strike by how the Minister refer to drone repeatedly in his statement ; it be a massive change in how war be wage . with a Trump presidency on the horizon , Europe need to look to itself and for its strength . one of our strength be the automobile industry and component part , which can easily be repurpose for the development of drone for the war in Ukraine . will the Minister advise we on how he be work with european colleague to enhance that to support Ukraine to the hilt ? I thank my fellow Devon MP for his support for Ukraine . it be certainly right that the increase proliferation of drone be a hallmark of the conflict . between 500 and 1 , 000 drone — a substantial number — be use every day on the frontline , and they be be use in an incredibly intense environment of electronic warfare and jamming . that be why we need to continue to iterate and evolve in the support we provide to Ukraine , make sure that those drone can fly through EW jamming , reach their target and project power in those area . we be continue to strengthen support for development not only in ukrainian drone production , but in the production of drone across the rest of Europe . that be why we work so closely with the drone capability coalition among our european partner , to create that enhance industrial base as well as learn the lesson of what technology be work , bear in mind that that iteration on the frontline mean that we need to keep adapt and enhance our drone offer to Ukraine every few month . Merry Christmas to you and the team , Madam Deputy Speaker . as other hon . member have do , I commend the Minister for the statement , and especially the funding announcement make today . I thank he for remind my constituent and all our constituent of the urgent need to support Ukraine and for remind we that our national security be very much bind up in Ukraine ' s national security . it be fantastic that this new money have be announce . do the Government have a further update on the proceed of the sale of Chelsea football club and the £ 2 . 5 billion ? I be sure that the Minister will agree that the soon we can get that money unlocked , the more military and humanitarian support we can unleash . the Government be work hard to ensure that the proceed of the sale of Chelsea football club reach humanitarian cause in Ukraine as soon as possible . the proceed be currently freeze in a UK bank account until a new independent foundation be establish to manage and distribute the money . official continue to hold discussion with Mr Abramovich ' s representative , expert and international partner , and they will double down on effort to reach a solution . we be fight every inch of the way to ensure that money from russian asset go straight back to support Ukrainians . I also welcome the new funding for Ukraine today and the Minister ' s statement . with an unstable government in France , new election in Germany , foreign influence operation in the recent romanian presidential election and a new Administration in the United States , what recent discussion have the Minister have with NATO colleague about how NATO will continue to support Ukraine to the very end , to steel its resolve and work towards the just peace that he reference ? briefly , on other NATO member , the Minister will know that Denmark ' s policy on defence for Ukraine be to allow Ukraine to grow its own industrial base . that be be support by Norway and some other baltic country . I get the transparency point and support the Government on that , but , to come back to an early question , be there any potential of joint venture to allow Ukraine to grow its own industrial base ? it be certainly true that in a period of more instability on a political level , our NATO ally value the United Kingdom ' s certainty and stability . for that reason , we be push forward on our effort to co - ordinate more NATO activity . the right hon . Gentleman will be aware that NATO have stand up a number of additional capability , especially in support the training function that Ukraine desperately need , and we be support those effort wholeheartedly . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that one of the ukrainian objective be to create more joint venture to develop and iterate technology , especially missile and drone technology . that have the support of the UK Government , so we have be support our ukrainian friend to do so not only in - country , but with UK industry at the same time . how we do that be be work through . the new treaty that we sign be really beneficial in enable some of that work to take place . it be certainly true , though , that to keep Ukraine in the fight , we not only need NATO ally to provide more resource , but we need to create the environment in which Ukraine can develop more of its resource in - country to be use on the frontline . Merry Christmas to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I warmly welcome the Minister ' s statement , which demonstrate again the ironclad commitment of this country to the defence of Ukraine . minister will have detect nervousness across the House regard political change in January , so may I change tack ? there be 6 million ukrainian refugee across Europe and million of displace people within the country itself . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to community across the United Kingdom who have support the ukrainian people , and indeed in many case open their home to Ukrainians come to this country ? I join my hon . friend in thank all those family across the country — those in his constituency , those of everyone here , and those in Plymouth — who have support the Homes for Ukraine scheme and those Ukrainians get to safety . as of 16 December , 218 , 600 Ukrainians have arrive in the UK , include just under 160 , 000 via the Homes for Ukraine scheme . our new Ukraine permission extension scheme will open on 4 February 2025 , as announce at the end of October . that will provide an additional 18 - month permission , and access to the same right and entitlement as the current Ukraine scheme . it be really important that as well as lend support to Ukrainians in Ukraine , we support those Ukrainians in the United Kingdom . I thank all the people who be work so hard in particular to ensure support for those family in the United Kingdom today . could we be completely realistic ? the outcome of the conflict be likely to be determine by President Trump and what he choose to do . therefore , it be essential that the british Government engage as positively as possible with President Trump and resist the temptation that somehow his arrival be an invitation for we Europeans to withdraw into ourselves , with our limited defence capability , our diverse political and foreign policy objective and vary degree of willpower to sustain the effort . can we take the arrival of President Trump as an opportunity to leverage change in whatever field , never underestimate how much the United Kingdom have to offer the United States and how join up and integrate so many of our defence capability be ? it be absolutely true that , as the United Kingdom have provide a bridge across the Atlantic between the United States and Europe in the past , we continue to do so today . we will need to work closely with our NATO ally , include the United States , with which we have a very close and deep security relationship . that be the case whoever be in the White House . we look forward to begin more of those discussion with the Administration once the US legal period that stop international discussion expire at the point of inauguration . I dispute just one aspect of the hon . Gentleman ' s question . this war could come to an end because of Putin . he could decide to withdraw his troop . he could decide to stop inflict pain on the ukrainian people . he could choose to end the war today . that be why we must continue to support Ukraine for as long as it take , so it can get the peace and security that its people so desperately need . I welcome the late british military support for Ukraine . I welcome that there be cross - party support in the House and that the civilised world stand unite with Ukraine ; long may that continue . do my hon . friend agree that the most important voice regard this illegal invasion and how to end it be not ours or those of our ally but those of President Zelensky and the ukrainian people at home and abroad , include in constituency such as mine ? the ukrainian people have suffer so much due to russian aggression , and their fortitude and bravery be an inspiration to all of we who value freedom and democracy . my hon . friend be certainly right that the courage , grit and determination of the ukrainian people be something we should be enormously proud of . it be for that reason that we continue to support they , because their fight be our fight . he be also right that the decision on the future of Ukraine be not for the United Kingdom , but for the ukrainian people and Government . it be for the Ukrainian Government to decide their future and their objective in the come year . it be our job to help to strengthen ukrainian hand so that they be in the good possible position for any outcome in 2025 . that be what this statement and the additional military equipment we have announce today seek to do . I know the cross - party support from this House be feel in Kyiv . I also know that video of this House show the United Kingdom ' s support for their fight be share on the frontline among ukrainian soldier . although I be not sure that every video of this place be precisely what ukrainian soldier on the frontline need , what they can take from today ' s debate be our cross - party support for keep they in the fight for as long as it take for they to secure victory and peace for their people . we on the SNP Benches stand united in that cross - party support for Ukraine and welcome the package that have be bring forward today . I have a few specific question for the Minister . first , he talk about the profit that have come from the frozen asset . what discussion have he have with EU counterpart on that ? some have be quite vocal about the sale of those asset , which could rapidly accelerate the strength of the ukrainian force . secondly , on sanction , more than 50 % of the component of russian drone come directly from China . there be negotiation next month between the Minister ' s own Government and China on increase economic co - operation . more specifically , we have a loophole in the law just now that allow british shipping and shipping insurer to work outside the UK to deliver gas from Siberia to other part of the world , which aid and abet Putin in his war of aggression against Ukraine . I would like an update on those thing . I thank the hon . Gentleman and his party for their support for Ukraine and for the united front this House have present and continue to present for Ukraine . discussion with our european friend on frozen asset be a matter for the Treasury , but I know that Treasury colleague be continue conversation to ensure that when the United Kingdom make a move on particular area of sanction or asset , it be replicate by our friend . indeed , the sanction we have implement on Russia ' s shadow fleet have be replicate by a huge number of our european and other international ally , to ensure that there be no place for that trade . I be concern by what the hon . Gentleman say , but I know that the Treasury have be work far with the Foreign Office on how we can strengthen sanction . however , I be very happy for he to write to I with further detail on that . the hon . Gentleman mention technology come from far afield . it be not just technology develop in Asia that we need to worry about ; we also need to worry about technology develop in Iran , which go directly to the frontline and be use by russian force to target civilian infrastructure in Ukraine . that be why we continue to take action against iranian weapon transfer to Ukraine , too . I start by welcome the Minister ' s statement . it be incredibly welcome to hear that we still fully support the people of Ukraine and will back they financially for as long as it take . I have two question for the Minister . first , he mention the 11 , 000 north korean troop in the Kursk region . he say that they have make little progress — that they have have a few tactical victory , but that it have come at great cost to they . how do he arrive at that assessment , and do he expect north korean troop to contribute more in the conflict ? secondly , I increasingly find myself in debate with people who ask why Britain be spend this money in Ukraine — why be it not be spend in Britain ? I use the argument that many in this House will be familiar with : when people like Vladimir Putin be give what they want , they always come back for more , whether there be a deal or not . will the Minister restate at the Dispatch Box why it be in Britain ' s direct national interest to ensure that the people of Ukraine win this conflict ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . it be certainly true that the assessment we have make of troop from the democratic People ' s Republic of Korea engage in combat be a concern development . it be a dangerous escalation and expansion of Putin ' s illegal war against Ukraine , and be further proof that he have no interest in peace . we will continue to monitor what take place there . my hon . friend will understand if I do not go into the precise collection method as to how we come to that assessment , but it be certainly a sign of further russian weakness that it need to rely on north korean troop in the operation it be undertake in Kursk oblast . secondly , on why this matter , I would pose a question that be always useful when think about this conflict : do we think Putin would stop if he win in Ukraine ? I think we all know the answer . his illegal war would continue against the ukrainian people , as would his threat against NATO ally , especially those on NATO ' s eastern flank . his malign influence would continue to extend to subversion of democracy through attack on critical infrastructure and cyber - attack on NATO ally , include the United Kingdom . that be why we have cross - party unity in our support for Ukraine : Ukraine ' s security be the United Kingdom ' s security . the war in Ukraine have fundamentally change the nature of warfare in the 21st century . we be now a generation away from the operation I conduct in Iraq and Afghanistan , and even the conventional warfare I train for throughout my time in the infantry only a decade or so ago . we have see how the use of drone have revolutionise the battle space in Ukraine — by that , I very much mean the handheld disposable end of the spectrum , rather than a platform like Watchkeeper — with the pace of their development necessitate a more agile approach to procurement and development . give that the conflict have evolve over just 1 , 000 day to be unrecognisable from its initial phase , to what extent be we ensure that the forthcoming strategic defence review keep pace with the rapidly evolve nature of aspect of contemporary warfare ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and for his service to our country . he be right that we be see huge change in the way that war be conduct in Ukraine , but we be also see development in how technology and different skill can be bring together . a few year ago , I be not sure that many in uniform would have welcome the suggestion that play on a PlayStation could train people for military combat , yet we do now see gamer in Ukraine apply their skill to fly first - person view drone through difficult scenario on the frontline in support of their freedom . it be precisely those lesson that the SDR be seek to capture . we be use not just lesson from the war in Ukraine , but experience with russian malign influence elsewhere around the world to inform the SDR . my hon . friend sit next to I on the Front Bench , the Minister for Veterans and People , feel — how shall I put it ? — incredibly strongly about drone , and I be absolutely certain that the SDR will include a great role for not only drone warfare but training around drone and modern warfare , as well as a great role for autonomy in all domain . I thank the Minister for his statement and welcome the announcement on our ongoing military support . it be critically important that those who wage Putin ' s illegal war face the legal consequence for their action . with that in mind , will the Minister set out the step that the Government be take to support the ukrainian domestic legal system to ensure that these case be prosecute in their own court ? the hon . Gentleman raise a really important issue . the horrendous activity of the russian force in Ukraine should be subject to the full extent of not only domestic but international law . the previous Government and this Government have provide not only military and economic support , but legal support . we be support the international effort to seek to prosecute not only Putin , but all those who have perpetrate hideous crime against the ukrainian people , especially ukrainian civilian . the effort be ongoing , and I encourage he to table some write question to the Attorney General ' s office , which might be able to provide a more thorough update . I can assure he that our support for Ukraine extend across the whole of Government and that we will continue to pursue all those responsible for crime in Ukraine , up to and include the President of Russia . we need to be absolutely clear that this illegal , unprovoked invasion of Ukraine carry consequence . if we do not , and it carry no consequence , it will be a green light for other dictator around the world to seek to change their border and to attack people simply because they want to . that be not acceptable in an international rule - base system . we must uphold the law . that be why the UK effort , from people in uniform and civilian who support our armed force , as well as the lawyer seek to prosecute those crime , be so essential for the long - term peace and security of Ukraine . I thank the Minister very much for his statement ; there be nobody in this House who do not support what he have say today . it encourage we as MPs and it encourage my constituent , so we thank he very much for his commitment . hail from a nation that have have to have the most highly train police in the world , I personally know of multiple ex - Royal Ulster Constabulary and ex - military personnel who be station in Northern Ireland who train other military force and police force across the world . it be right and proper that our force be able to help our ally — indeed , they should help our ally . will the Minister confirm that there be no intention for our force to see direct action in Ukraine , and that our role be that of training , military provision and support ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and , through he as a Northern Ireland MP , I thank all those family in Northern Ireland who have welcome Ukrainians into their home and continue to support they , and the industry in Northern Ireland that be support Ukraine . it be the position of the UK Government that we do not have and will not provide UK troop for combat role in Ukraine . however , we will continue to support our ukrainian friend through the provision of training and the military equipment they need to determine their future . the training in Operation Interflex will continue throughout the entirety of next year , and will continue to flex and adapt to the change need of the ukrainian fight . it be certainly true that Ukraine need more people on the frontline to deter the aggression , and our ability to improve and update our training offer , alongside our international partner , will be critical to keep Ukraine in the fight in the month to come . save the good back - Bench contributor till last . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an honour and a novelty to follow my near neighbour , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . the cost of a new year ' s dinner in Russia be up over 11 % , interest rate be up , taxis be up and the rouble be down . that be largely down to the fact that the previous Government introduce a punitive range of sanction against Russia . the famous military phrase be " in all domain " and the economic domain be absolutely critical . can the Minister assure we that we will continue to ramp up economic pressure , as well as military pressure ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . it be absolutely right that in addition to military support we use all lever available to we as a Government to put pressure on Putin , the Kremlin and his illegal war , and that include economic measure . it be certainly true that Russia be seek to find way to circumvent and evade some of the sanction put in place not just by the United Kingdom , but by our international ally , too . it be for that reason that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the Treasury be update the sanction on a regular basis , not only to expand they where we see a revenue stream from activity that directly support the war , but to put further pressure on the russian economic system so that stay in the fight become a hard and hard choice for they . ultimately , the war need to be bring to an end as soon as we can . our lever , not only military but economic and diplomatic , be essential to be able to bring the pressure to bear on Putin to stop his illegal invasion , withdraw his troop and give all the people in Ukraine , who just wish to get on with their life free from attack , abuse and intimidation by the russian state , a decent future . let we hope that 2025 bring a well year than 2024 be for our ukrainian friend . Syria with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement about the current situation in Syria . ten day have pass since Assad ' s departure . the Government welcome the fall of his cruel and barbaric regime , and the opportunity it offer for Syrians . however , while there be some cause for celebration , fighting and violence continue across the country . the situation in Syria have develop rapidly over the last week . in the north - east , the US - broker ceasefire between the Syrian Democratic Forces and the t ü rkiye - Syrian National Army have be temporarily extend , but the situation remain highly fragile . in Damascus , Hayat Tahrir Al - Sham — or HTS , as I will call they for the rest of the speech — have appoint a Prime Minister to lead an interim government until March 2025 , but they have give very little detail on the shape and focus of that Government . the UK Government remain committed to the people of Syria . we support a Syrian - lead and Syrian - own political transition process base on the principle of UN Security Council resolution 2254 and lead to an inclusive , non - sectarian and representative Government . we be hopeful that anyone seek a role in govern Syria will demonstrate a commitment to : the protection of human right , include for woman and girl ; unfettered access for humanitarian aid ; the safe destruction of chemical weapon stockpile ; and combat terrorism and extremism . the UK urge the transitional Government to adhere to those principle to build a more hopeful , secure and peaceful Syria . on Saturday , Jordan convene an arab Foreign Ministers ' discussion , follow by a meeting with EU , French , UN , US and UK representative . all involve , include the UK , reiterate their support for an inclusive political transition process . it be critical that the international community work together in a co - ordinated and complementary manner to ensure the good outcome for the syrian people . along with our partner , we want to see a new political process that be comprehensive , representative , inclusive and , most importantly , determine by the syrian people themselves . we must also ensure that chemical weapon stockpile be secure , not use , and that the transition to new governance be peaceful . for all those reason , it be right that the UK seek to use all the channel available to we to deal with HTS where we have to . to that end , senior official from the fcdo have travel to Damascus . they have underline the UK ' s support for the syrian people and discuss the pathway to a more hopeful , representative and peaceful future for Syria with the new interim syrian authority and civil society . during their visit , senior official also discuss the importance of an inclusive transitional political process that protect the right of all Syrians and prevent further instability . those word be important , of course , but they must be support by action , too . the humanitarian situation on the ground remain dire , with over 16 million Syrians in need of humanitarian assistance — and that be purely within the border of Syria itself . that be why , on Saturday , the Government announce a new package of international aid to help the most vulnerable Syrians , include in Jordan and Lebanon , on top of that announce by the Prime Minister on 9 December . the UK ' s £ 61 million in aid will help provide emergency healthcare and nutrition , and support displace syrian child . we call on more of our partner to join we in commit great humanitarian support . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . the House have many serious question about the decision , announce by the Foreign Secretary to the medium rather than to this House , to establish a diplomatic channel with Hayat Tahrir al - Sham . HTS be a proscribe terrorist organisation , but the Foreign Secretary say that the UK be none the less able to have diplomatic contact . can the Minister clarify the specific legal basis on which she have establish contact ? be HTS the only such organisation operate in Syria that now have a diplomatic channel ? we be now aware that Ann Snow , the UK special representative for Syria , and another senior fcdo diplomat , have meet the leader of HTS . can the Minister tell we who else have make contact ? have contact with HTS leader only be make via official channel , rather than at ministerial level ? I know the Minister will be aware that there be a big difference between the two . the Foreign Secretary also say that the fcdo be engage with HTS because it want a representative and inclusive Government , and an end to violence in Syria . have the UK convey to HTS a clear expectation of what should happen to bring that about ? if so , will the Minister now take this opportunity to share that road map with the House ? do she believe , base on those conversation , that HTS will lead a peaceful transfer of power to a genuine civilian government which protect minority group ? the Government need to be extremely careful , because by deal with HTS and publicly do so , there be a risk of legitimisation of the organisation and its position in Syria . at this stage , do the Minister not agree that that would be premature ? these be very early day in the new post - assad reality , and we need to judge HTS by its action , not its word . now that the Government have embark on this path , can we expect an unequivocal statement that there be no read - across to other proscribe group ? the integrity of the proscription system be absolutely paramount , and the Government must exercise extreme care not to undermine it in any way . be it still the case that those who leave Britain to support the murderous Daesh regime have no place in the UK , and will the Minister commit herself to rule out any return of Shamima Begum and other to the UK ? we note her comment about chemical weapon ; can she provide any further detail on how the UK will push for their destruction ? let I now turn to the humanitarian aspect of this conflict . we be aware of the Government ' s late aid package to Syria . two week ago , when press on aid delivery in Syria , the Minister for the Middle East say he be concerned that practical access for aid agency would be difficult to maintain , and work be need to maintain access through established humanitarian corridor . it would be helpful to hear the Government ' s late assessment of the situation . the UK have fund more than £ 4 billion of aid over the past decade and more , but with a terrorist group in control of significant territory , can the Minister assure the House that the only beneficiary of british aid , include food , water and sanitation , be innocent civilian ? british aid must not end up in the wrong hand , so what assurance can she give that the way in which aid be be deliver have take account of the new operating environment ? there be real concern about what Iran ' s next step in Syria might be . there be report that the regime in Tehran have be in contact with rebel group , and we need to be very alive to the risk that it may try to re - establish a foothold for its hostile and malign operation in the region . we should be very clear about the fact that would be an awful outcome . we and our ally need to be pull every diplomatic lever to blunt Iran ' s ability to launch a resurgence in Syria , and the House would welcome an update from the Minister on her work on that front . we all want a stable , peaceful Government in Syria who will protect all group and minority , free from the influence of Iran and Russia . that be easy to say , but bring it about be far more difficult — as will be avoid an incredibly dangerous power vacuum that could fuel extremism , cause a further breakdown of law and order and bring about a proliferation of criminal activity , include the weapon smuggling and drug production . we need to see a clear plan from the Government that protect british interest at home and abroad , and support those who sincerely want to protect the innocent syrian civilian who have suffer so much . I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for her comment . she have raise a number of issue , with which I will deal in turn . first , she ask about the UK ' s engagement with HTS . I do talk about that in my statement , but I can provide additional information . it be clear that the fact that HTS be a proscribe terrorist group do not prevent the UK from engage with it in our effort to help secure a political settlement , or from engage with any future transitional government in Syria that include HTS . its proscription will not inhibit the pursuit of our foreign policy objective in Syria , and the UK will be guide by a set of core principle for any diplomatic interaction with the interim Syria authority , with inclusion and the protection of human right as key consideration . that have be the case until now , and it most definitely will be the case into the future . the right hon . Lady ask about engagement with other body at official level . there have be engagement with T ü rkiye and with the SDF , and that will continue . we be seek to do all that we can , above all , to ensure that the interest of Syrians themselves be put at the forefront in this very difficult situation . the right hon . Lady ask about the representation be make by the UK to the HTS . I cover that in my statement , but let I repeat that we have be crystal clear about the fact that any subsequent arrangement must be comprehensive , representative , inclusive and , above all , determine by Syrians . she ask whether this would have any impact on the integrity of the proscription regime ; no , and it must not , because that be an incredibly important regime and there will be no linkage . she ask what would happen with those who choose to leave our country to promote and support terrorism by seek to fight for Daesh ; of course those people will not be able to come to the UK . she talk about the use of chemical weapon ; I cover that in my statement as well , but , again , the UK will seek to play as much of a part as it possibly can in ensure that those stockpile be destroy after they be use so appallingly against the syrian people . the right hon . Lady ask about the use of aid . I have discuss this matter myself , as have many of my official , with a number of multilateral body and with a number of our bilateral partner as well . we be determined to work together to ensure that aid do not fall into the wrong hand and be not divert . of course that must not happen , because it be desperately need by many Syrians . a great many people have already be displace from Syria to neighbouring country , but large population movement now seem to be take place , and it really be important that the aid go where it be need . we be , of course , monitor that in detail . the right hon . Lady ask about the situation with Iran . the UK have condemn Iran ' s reckless and destabilising activity , include its support for militant group . we have be very clear about that , as the new Government . finally , the right hon . Lady talk about the need to ensure that we do not see an increase in the development that have be so concern , involve the smuggling of weapon and drug . the UK will focus on that later with the new Government , because we see the damage that have already be cause in that regard . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . early this week I meet Alevi , kurdish and other community who be deeply concerned about what will happen to minority in Syria now that HTS have seize power there . the UK have rightly proscribe HTS as a result of its link with al - Qaeda . can the Minister reassure the House that the Government will use all their power to prevent HTS and other hostile actor from attack minority in Syria ? of course we will seek to use every lever in that respect , because it be the position of this government that all civilian must be protect , and that include civilian who form part of religious and ethnic minority . we have also make it very clear that , as I mention a few moment ago , the political process must be inclusive , and that cover all religious and ethnic minority . when it come to the situation for Kurds , I think it relevant to underline the fact that the UK have be in touch with both T ü rkiye and the SDF since the start of this escalation . we be urge all side to refrain from activity that could lead to a further loss of civilian life , and of course we want to see the ceasefire be hold to . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the fall of Assad mark a turning point in Syria ' s history , one that bring renew hope for million who have suffer under his brutal rule . it also represent a serious setback for the global ambition of the regime in Moscow and Tehran . as we reflect on this momentous day , however , we must remain vigilant . it be not enough to see the end of a cruel despot who unleash chemical weapon on his own people ; true justice require that he be hold to account for his crime , ensure that such atrocity never reoccur . in these early day of transition , every effort must be channel into secure an orderly and peaceful transfer of power . we welcome the sign of engagement with group on the ground , include those who have have contact with HTS , and we urge all party to commit themselves to a stable path forward ; but this can not be a mere change of flag or face . the new leadership must work tirelessly to safeguard the dignity and right of every community , ensure that religious and ethnic minority be not just tolerate but actively protect . equally vital be the reconstruction of Syria ' s infrastructure : investment in road , school , hospital and electricity grid be essential . restore those lifeline of society will help to rebuild trust and lie the groundwork for a thriving , inclusive economy that reach every corner of the country . the international community stand ready to support these initiative , but we must see clear evidence of genuine commitment to positive , meaningful change . the Minister mention the £ 61 million of UK aid , which be very welcome . can she give we the detail of how it will specifically support Syrians who be return to their home country ? may I also ask what the Government be do to work alongside key regional player to ensure that whatever come next uphold the value of democracy and freedom ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his remark , and I agree with the way in which he describe the current situation . there be no question but that many Syrians feel an enormous sense of relief at the end of such a murderous and brutal regime , but there be deep concern about what will come now . the UK be determined to play our part in ensure that the future be determine by the Syrians themselves . the hon . Gentleman ask about accountability . that be an incredibly important point to reflect on , because in recent year we have see the appalling targeting of so many Syrians by the Assad regime . the UK have play its part , as have many expert from the UK , in seek to gather information about that . I praise the previous Government for their work in that regard , particularly their work with the International , Impartial and Independent Mechanism , which have be seek to make sure that there be coherent collation and use of evidence so that we can address the widespread impunity , and the suffering of the syrian people , under the Assad regime . give the change that have take place , it be really important that we do not lose that information , and that , ultimately , there be the accountability that the syrian people deserve . the hon . Gentleman ask for detail of the aid that the UK have provide , and about how that will be relevant for those seek to return to Syria . of course , many area of Syria have be appallingly degrade through the action of Assad , and basic service — water , electricity and other service that be essential for anything approach normal life — have be destroy . it will be a long - term process , but the UK be now focus on provide emergency healthcare , support for nutrition and food provision more generally , as well as support for the many displaced child , who have have to deal with such a traumatic period . we will continue to focus on those important issue with our partner into the future . I commend the Minister for her statement , and for the additional £ 50 million in aid . I be particularly grateful for the extra £ 120 , 000 that have be give to the OPCW to help rid Syria of chemical weapon , which , despite the denial and downplaying by some people , include member of this House , be be use by Assad . my question follow up on the one I ask last week about political prisoner . I be grateful that Sednaya prison look like it have be clear , but I hear from my syrian friend that there be other prison and secret detention centre across the country . what step can the UK Government take to help support the Syrians to find any missing people and ensure that they be free as soon as possible ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise those point . he mention the terrible use of chemical weapon within Syria . the new Government be deeply concerned about their previous use , but we also want to ensure that they can never be use again on a civilian population . we note HTS ' s statement that it will protect chemical weapon site and will not use such weapon under any circumstance . we urge all party to comply with international law , include the chemical weapon convention , and to engage with the OPCW so that we can finally make sure that all ban weapon be destroy . my hon . friend raise the issue of those who have be appallingly detain — in some case , for an extremely long period of time — in horrific circumstance . accountability around those issue relate to the matter that I talk about a few moment ago . the IIIM be so crucial to make sure that datum about Assad ' s murderous regime be not just collect , but hold and then use to drive accountability . the Minister will be aware of report that up to £ 160 million be hold in asset in the UK under the syrian sanction regime . will she look at way in which that money can be use in due course for the benefit of the people of Syria ? I be very grateful to the right hon . member for his question . I be sure that he will understand — indeed , he have follow these issue for many year — that the UK ' s sanction regime be continuously keep under review . the UK have be determine to ensure that where we can use sanction in order to ensure that there be accountability , we will do so . of course , we will keep these matter under review and work with partner to make sure that there be accountability . we welcome the Minister ' s statement , and what she have detail about the effort of the Department and our Government to create a broad coalition to bring about peace in Syria . early we have a statement on Ukraine from the Minister for the Armed Forces , who say that we be challenge malign russian activity , and there be broad consensus across the House . give the Russians ' malign activity in Syria , do the Minister agree that although we need an inclusive political process that include the country ' s minority group , it be essential that we have a broad international process ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise the critical need for an international process , and the need for continuation of the engagement that we have see in recent day — first , with arab country come together , and then engagement by the EU , US , UK and other . I want to underline my hon . friend ' s point about Russia . it be clear that with Russia ' s military support , the Assad regime be able to continue its brutal campaign against the syrian people for over 13 year . the sudden fall of that regime have expose Russia ' s weaken state , and the unreliable and self - serve nature of its so - call alliance . I very much welcome the Minister ' s statement and the removal of the Assad Government . what assessment have the UK Government make of the syrian justice system ' s capacity to prosecute war crime , and all the horrendous crime that be perpetrate against the poor people of Syria during Assad ' s regime ? sadly , it be very clear that under Assad , we do not see a justice system that be focus on criminal justice and on provide proper accountability . instead , there be a vast number of political prisoner , and extensive and extremely deep persecution focus on the need of the regime . of course , there must be change . as I describe in my statement , the UK have engage with Syria , particularly on the need to prevent further conflict , to ensure the protection of human right , and to ensure an inclusive and representative political process . that will require the kind of institution that can uphold an inclusive , representative and comprehensive governance structure . surely that be the least that the Syrians deserve . do the Minister share my concern that the situation in both Syria and Gaza threaten stability in the wide region , and can she reassure I that the Government be act urgently to support humanitarian need in both Syria and Gaza ? yes , I can reassure my hon . friend on that . it be important for we to understand the situation in many country in the region . Jordan have a very large proportion of palestinian refugee , and also have many syrian refugee . I have the absolute privilege of meet some of they when I visit the Zaatari camp in Jordan . the UK have be work with Jordan on the Jahez programme , which we announce recently , but we have also be work with the country to ensure that , where possible , we can push forward access for aid into Gaza . I pay tribute to the jordanian Government for that . I have several short question . the Minister have already touch on sanction ; the new syrian leader , Ahmed al - Sharaa , have say that sanction must be lift , and that that be not up for negotiation . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s thought on how we can move forward . on behalf of the SNP , I welcome the £ 61 million of support , particularly for healthcare and nutrition , but who will deliver it , and how can we ensure that it be deliver to the people who need it most ? over the last week or two , we have all see the unfold news about the horror of what happen , and not just in the prison . this week , Channel 4 News have report that hundred of thousand of civilian have be bury in mass grave . what be the UK Government ' s thought on the technical and forensic assistance provide follow previous genocide , not least in Rwanda and the Balkans ? what support could we provide ? the University of Dundee be a world leader in forensic , and I would like it to have the opportunity to hear the Minister ' s response . I will try to answer the hon . member ' s four question as quickly as possible , so that other can speak . first , there be already tough sanction in place against the Assad regime — against 310 individual and 74 link entity . as I mention , this Government will keep all evidence and potential designation under close review , and we will not hesitate to take further action as need . we be work with partner , particularly the UN agency , on deliver aid . yesterday or the day before , I discuss in detail with the UN emergency co - ordinator how we will ensure that access be provide , work together in concert . we also need to make sure that there be no duplication , give that there be such need . that be something on which the UK be very much focused . the UK have be engage in ensure that forensic evidence be collect . as I say , much of that work be conduct through the IIIM . it be important that UK expert be engage , and I pay tribute to the Dundonians who have be engage in this important work . clearly , we be hear very disturbing report , and it be critical that we have clear , substantiate evidence that can be use to drive accountability . I hope that many UK expert will be involve in that effort . the end of a vicious dictatorship and the limited progress that have be make under the interim authority be lead to ever more syrian refugee , perhaps even million , return home . of course , in principle , this be good , but Syria ' s education system , its infrastructure and its healthcare system be devastate . do my right hon . friend agree that this present a significant opportunity for the UK to play a huge role in help Syrians to rebuild their country ? british aid agency , company and expert in international law can all help to embed stability , and to ensure a democratic transition and an inclusive and more prosperous country for the Syrians . I agree with my hon . friend . of course , million of syrian refugee remain in T ü rkiye , Lebanon and Jordan , and the House have to recognise that a further surge of refugee out of Syria would increase the strain on many other country and potentially increase the number of people seek to use dangerous route into continental Europe and the UK . we need to work on this with multilateral organisation , and with country in the region , while make sure that we focus on future reconstruction . we have talk about the destruction of many basic service , and it really will be important to make sure that Syria , as a whole nation and a whole territory , be make inhabitable again ; that be the right of all Syrians . I be sure colleague on both side of the House welcome the fall of the brutal Assad regime , and perhaps very cautiously welcome the early inclusive statement — in part , at least — of Ahmed al - Sharaa , the HTS ' s leader , but I have to confess that I be somewhat nervous . be these statement too good to be true ? do not the international community , particularly the UK Government , need to be careful that it be not be play ? in particular , the transitional Government should be judge on their deed , not just their word and BBC tv interview . briefly , when will the UK embassy in Syria reopen ? what will the Government do to ensure the protection of minority , particularly , at Christmas , christian minority , and to make sure that they be represent in the transitional Government and , indeed , the future Government of Syria ? although some of the biological and chemical stockpile hold in Syria have be bomb by Israel — that be welcome , in my view — we have to ensure that they do not fall into the hand of any rebel group or transitional government , but be completely destroy or give over to another authority that can destroy they . I cover the nature of the UK ' s engagement with HTS both in my statement and in my answer . of course , it be critical that the UK be clear about the need for a future political settlement to be comprehensive and inclusive , and it must include both ethnic and religious minority . the right hon . Gentleman talk about the christian minority in Syria , many of which be appallingly persecute over many year . as with other minority , we need to ensure that they be protect into the future . the UK have be resolute on that point . the right hon . gentleman mention chemical stockpile , and the UK Government have be absolutely clear that those stockpile must not be use . HTS have make a statement on this subject , and we be determined to ensure that it be hold to that , and that all party ensure that the stockpile be destroy , so that they can never be use . I thank my right hon . friend for her diligent work on the very challenging situation in Syria . I be sure that she have see the report from place like Idlib , Aleppo , Homs and Damascus of woman be force to wear the hijab , young woman be escort , and other restriction on woman ' s right . that be in stark contrast to the position under the autonomous administration in north and east Syria , Rojava ; gender equality be bake into its constitutional arrangement . what assessment have she make of HTS ' s attitude towards gender equality and woman ' s right ? do she think that there should be a ministry for woman and gender equality in the constitutional arrangement of a future syrian republic ? my hon . friend raise an issue that could not be more important . when we talk about arrangement be inclusive , comprehensive and representative , that must include arrangement for the 51 % of the population who be woman . we must also see that girl , as well as woman , be protect . when we look at the previous humanitarian situation in Syria , we see that there be huge issue for many woman in access family planning and basic health service — those kind of issue hit woman particularly hard . the UK have be support the work of the United Nations on family planning , and we will continue to make sure that the UK be a strong advocate , both on a political level and on service for woman and girl in Syria . the Minister might like to welcome the fact that the israeli air force be systematically destroy chemical weapon , rather than rely on the word of terrorist . will she comment on the large occupation anywhere in the middle east , namely that of Turkey in Syria , and on the pro - western kurdish fighter who be be singly deal with by the Turks ? it appear that the turkish Parliament now see an opportunity to annex more and more of Syria , create a great turkish empire . have the Minister or the Government have any discussion with Turkey about its intention ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise these issue . I briefly mention that the UK have be in contact with T ü rkiye and the Syrian Democratic Forces since the start of this escalation . as he will be aware , there be a US - broker ceasefire , and it have to be hold to . we have be very clear with all side that they must refrain from activity that could lead to further loss of life or damage to civilian infrastructure in order to avoid further destabilisation and civilian suffering in the region , which have already be intense and which must not be worsen . I welcome the Minister ' s involvement and preparedness to work with the new syrian Government , and we hope that that will deliver a future free from war and free from human right abuse . however , the new Government be face with a country awash with weapon and armed force from Russia , Turkey , the USA , Israel and ISIS active in the country . what action have she take to ensure Israel withdraw from Syria and turkish force withdraw from the north of Syria , allow the kurdish people to live in peace and with right of self - determination ? we be aware that the situation be incredibly complex , and a large number of armed group , with a variety of different affiliation , be involve . in that context , the most critical issue for the UK Government be that civilian be protect . my goodness , they suffer enough under Assad , and now , with the fall of Assad , we must ensure they be protect . on other nation engage within Syria , we be clear that it be critical that civilian , include those from minority , be protect , and that all must work quickly towards an inclusive political transition . as the UN Secretary - General have say , the future of Syria be a matter for Syrians to determine , and that be the position of the UK Government . I call Jim Shannon to ask the final question . when I speak in the Chamber , I always see myself as a rear gunner . I thank the Minister for her statement and her clear commitment to human right , prevention of religious persecution and right wrong . while I welcome the fall of Assad , I fear for what will replace that regime . as we have see in Afghanistan and Iraq , if we do not — I say " we " collectively — secure democracy , a dictatorship under a different guise will arise . how will the UK and our UN ally ensure that those woman and child who have live through horrific oppression will not simply taste freedom for a short time before enter a new despotic regime ? what specific support can our Government give to woman and child at this time ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for all his work over many year on these and associated issue . he talk about the complex situation that face we now . as many have reflect , there be relief at see the fall of such a dreadful dictator but concern about what may come next . as I have mention , the UK Government will do all we can to seek to ensure that the subsequent governance regime be comprehensive , inclusive and representative , and will ensure the safety of civilian , include child . the hon . Gentleman ask about the UK ' s approach on support towards child . within the support we announce a couple of day ago , there be provision for education for displace syrian child and also for psychosocial support , which will be important to those young people . in end , as we approach Christmas , and particularly off the back of this discussion , now really be a time when we must wish for peace on earth and goodwill to all . I wish everyone in the Chamber , all the staff and you , Madam Deputy Speaker , a very merry Christmas . Service Accommodation Defence Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Defence Committee . Mr Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question , not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair , and not the relevant Government Minister , but Front Benchers may take part in questioning . I plan to finish the Select Committee statement after 20 minute . it be an honour to present the Defence Committee ' s first report of this Parliament , which be on service accommodation . as we approach Christmas , we would all hope that the brave servicepeople who put their life on the line for our country would all have decent housing , where they could celebrate in the warmth , without fear that their living condition would put their health or their family ' health at risk . however , that be not always true , as our report and other report have find . what be more , there be not yet a robust fund plan to put the situation right . before I say more about the Committee ' s finding , I want to put on record my immense gratitude to my fellow Committee member in reach strong recommendation on a cross - party basis . I thank member of the Defence Committee in the previous Parliament , include the now shadow Defence Minister , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , who take the evidence that inform this hard - hit report . in particular , I thank Robert Courts , the former Member for Witney , who originally propose and lead the inquiry . I put on record my gratitude to the House of Commons staff whose hard work make the inquiry possible , especially Sarah Williams , who manage the inquiry with curiosity and care , from conception to report . our armed force personnel dedicate their life to protect this nation , often at great personal sacrifice . ensure they have access to safe , comfortable and well - maintain accommodation be not just a matter of duty — it be a moral obligation . the Committee ' s investigation have reveal a deeply concern situation that have develop over many year . the condition of both service family accommodation and single living accommodation fall far below the standard our servicemen and woman deserve . we have find instance of dilapidated housing , inadequate maintenance and unacceptable living condition , include some truly appalling persistent problem with damp and mould ; case of total loss of heating , hot water and cooking facility for month in winter ; flooding ; and rodent infestation . such substandard living condition directly affect the morale and operational readiness of our armed force . they be also a significant challenge to recruitment and retention . our report highlight systemic failure in the management and maintenance of service accommodation . the current system be plague by lack of clear accountability and have reach a point of crisis , follow insufficient funding over decade . satisfaction with service accommodation be very low . that be hardly surprising give that a third of single living accommodation and two third of service family accommodation be in such poor condition that they be essentially no long fit for purpose . the Committee have put forward several key recommendation to start to address this situation . we call for detailed fund investment plan for service accommodation , which be crucial to address the backlog of repair and to bring the housing stock up to acceptable modern standard . such plan be also crucial to enable effective planning for how good to manage the interim situation in which so much defence housing remain substandard . for all accommodation maintain under contract , we call for the Ministry of Defence to review the assurance process and performance measure for those contract as part of a plan to improve the management of accommodation . there need to be much more focus on the satisfaction of servicepeople and their family . that must include make sure that complaint process be accessible and fit for purpose . well communication with servicepeople and their family be absolutely key , alongside well delivery of real improvement that people value . the Committee also examine recent development relate to the allocation of family accommodation — namely , the botched mismanage nature of it . both the propose change and the subsequent pause in their implementation have cause significant uncertainty for service personnel and their family . the situation underscore the need for clear , consistent communication and highlight the importance of thorough consultation with those affect by such change . I want to emphasise that this be not about apportion blame but about recognise a share responsibility across government , over many year , to do well for those who serve our country . however , it be now for the current Government to put thing right . the challenge be considerable and require a meaningful plan of investment and effective delivery and communication . I warmly welcome the announcement on Tuesday that the Government be buy back the service family accommodation portfolio . the decision back in 1996 to sell the portfolio be a major mistake and be compound by the term of the deal , which have be describe by the Public Accounts Committee as " disastrous " . it leave the public purse billion of pound bad off and the Government responsible for maintain and upgrade an estate that be , in effect , own by somebody else . that be why the situation be a nettle that need to be grasp . buy back the portfolio be the right decision and have the potential to be a real game changer . however , essential though that is , the buy - back will not , in itself , directly improve thing for servicepeople and their family right now . along with my colleague on the Defence Committee , I will be look closely at the plan that follow and how it be fund and deliver . I commend the report to the House . I put on record this Government ' s support for the report that my hon . friend have just publish . the state of military housing be not good enough . too many of our military family be live in poor - quality accommodation , and that be precisely why the Government seek to renew the contract between the nation and those who serve . that be why we be bring Annington home back into public ownership . that will save the taxpayer £ 600 , 000 a day , which be money that can be use to well support our service family . I be grateful to hon . member from both side of the House , include the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) for his work in support of the deal . do my hon . friend agree that this decisive break from a fail past be just our first chance to renew the contract between the nation and those who serve ? I hope he will keep the government honest on our commitment to improve service life and accommodation . through the work we be legislate for with the Armed Forces Commissioner , I hope his Committee will be able to support and provide ongoing scrutiny of service family accommodation , because decent housing be the least that all our armed force and their family deserve . this Government be intent on deliver on that . I welcome the Minister ' s comment and , indeed , we will be support and scrutinise the work of Government . we look forward to work with the Armed Forces Commissioner as and when they be appoint . as I intimate early , Tuesday ' s announcement be very welcome , but there be a great deal of work for the Minister and his colleague to do . the proof will be in the planning and the delivery . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats fully support the finding of the report and we hope it will mark the beginning of a much well and fair deal for armed force personnel . for too long , they have be fail by successive government . do the Chair agree that this be a long - overdue change , welcome by our party and across the House ? our service personnel , who at time put their life on the line for this country , should at the very least expect to have a warm , safe and secure place to call home . do he also agree that the backlog and repair to the basic service he have highlight be unacceptable and should not be allow to recur in future ? I could not agree more with the Liberal Democrat spokesman . it be completely unacceptable that we expect our brave servicemen and woman , and their family , to be house in such substandard condition . we have instance of damp , mould , rat infestation — I could rattle off so many other thing that be completely unacceptable . I completely concur with the hon . Gentleman and look forward to the Government take immediate and urgent action to remediate thing . I warmly welcome the report and I be proud to be part of my hon . friend the Chair ' s team , who have so well encapsulate the witness testimony and the work that be do by the previous Committee . I join he in warmly welcome the announcement from early in the week and the forthcoming work to bring about a service commissioner to oversee the process and ensure such injustice do not befall our service personnel in future . do he agree that service housing be the foundation upon which our service personnel serve and commit to our country , and that this be the start of a journey of repair a very damage contract that this country have with its service personnel ? I concur fully with my fellow member of the Defence Committee . give his vast experience of have serve in our armed force , his contribution as a member of the Committee will be substantial , and I know he will bring that experience to bear as we look forward to remediate thing . he be correct that service accommodation be the foundation on which we must ensure that our servicepeople have the very good facility that we as a nation can offer . I call the shadow Minister . for the record , I declare an interest : I participate in the inquiry while serve on the Committee in the previous Parliament . I thank the Committee Chairman for kindly point that out . also for the record , we welcome the Annington decision , partly because we have do a lot of work on that prior to the election . I thank the Minister for play fair on that . now that we have hopefully resolve the issue of the ownership of the estate , there be still the question of its management . change the ownership do not fix the boiler . will the Chairman of the Committee be pleased to hear that , in the same bipartisan spirit , we be happy to work with the Department and Ministers to see if we can provide proposal for improve the management of the estate now that , hopefully , we have resolve the ownership question ? the right hon . Gentleman be indeed right , not only in his considerable contribution to the deliberation relate to the service accommodation report , but in precede year , when he serve in such a distinguished manner on the Defence Committee , which , by the way , work on a cross - party basis and the report be agree unanimously . he be also right to highlight that the management of the contract will be essential . the Committee ' s report have identify the serious problem and now the ball be in the Government ' s court as to how they manage that . however , it be great to see the cross - party working and I hope that will help to address the issue in a more timely manner . I welcome the Committee ' s " Service Accommodation " report and recommendation , but I be not surprised by its finding . I also welcome the Government ' s move to purchase back housing stock that should never have be sell off and the hundred of house that will bring back to Portsmouth . however , the issue of Ministry of Defence housing be huge , because of the year of manage decline under the previous Government . there have be no real investment , just stick plaster . Portsmouth in particular have be underfunde , and those in naval property miss out more than most , because they can be in their home for long than those in other service as they be base at the port . there be a cap on void work , which mean that , if a family move out , the house need renovate and it will be withdraw . this cause undue stress to family who have already select school , sort out their removal and leave job . there be not always a guarantee of a house in the same area . there be so much to say on behalf of Portsmouth service personnel , but , lift word from the page of the report , I invite the Committee and the Ministers to meet I , the contractor and service personnel in Portsmouth to see the reality of the situation . my hon . friend be 100 % right . she be also speak with considerable experience , because of the importance of Portsmouth to our nation ' s defence , and the sheer scale of its service accommodation . indeed , I look forward to visit Portsmouth . the Defence Committee , along with its staff , will be visit the city very soon . and , yes , every instance of substandard accommodation be unacceptable , and we must collectively work to rectify matter . some 40 year ago , I be grow up in army accommodation , because my dad be serve in the Royal Signals . even then , I remember my parent talk about the problem that they be have with their accommodation . it be extraordinary that all this time later , thing have probably get bad , rather than well . I want to put on record that this be about not only service personnel but their spouse and child who live in the accommodation . when service personnel be serve away from home , often for month at a time , the family ' s health and mental health be impact by the quality of their accommodation . do the Chair of the Committee agree that the impact on mental health be important ? I could not agree more with the hon . member . she have get to the nub of it . if our brave servicemen and woman be anxious about what be go on with their family when they be serve around the world , that affect their mental health . it also affect the mental health of the family themselves — the partner and the child . it be extremely important that we rectify matter , otherwise armed service personnel will vote with their foot and walk away . I wholeheartedly support this excellent report of my hon . friend and his Select Committee . may I also ask they to look at the issue of housing for veteran , which be a very important matter ? many veteran in read live in poor - quality , rent accommodation , despite the fact that read borough council have prioritise their need in the council house waiting list . there be simply not enough council house to go around . we have particular problem with our british Gurkha community who be struggle in poor accommodation . will the Select Committee look into that matter ? my hon . friend have be a champion of veteran , particularly gurkha veteran . I know that he recently visit Aldershot and many other place , include Westminster Hall , to champion their cause . he be right that veteran ' issue need to be resolve . I think that he , along with his constituent , will have be happy with the Government ' s recent announcement of home for veteran , but we must keep push to ensure the good possible outcome for our veteran . I wish you a merry Yorkshire Christmas , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank my hon . friend for the Committee ' s report . as we be admit thing , let I say that , in the 1980 , I , too , live in armed service accommodation for a brief period . it be important for we to remember how many child live in armed service accommodation . I have be raise this issue since 2018 , at the time of the CarillionAmey contract . Catterick garrison in Yorkshire have one of the large stock of armed force housing , and I know that my hon . friend know how poor much of the maintenance work have be . he have already mention mould , rat , and condition that be unfit for child , or anybody , to live in . do he think that service family who suffer the most egregious example of poor maintenance should be able to receive compensation from those private company ? my hon . friend , along with other hon . member , speak with a great deal of experience have live in service accommodation . when I have the honour recently to visit Catterick , I be able to see for myself some of the service accommodation . we do need to ensure that people be hold to account . I have no doubt that the Government will put pressure on those management company to ensure that compensation commensurate with what people have suffer should be forthcoming . that conclude the Select Committee statement . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in today ' s urgent question , the Minister for Secondary Care , the hon . member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) , say that the Government would be introduce a " £ 100 million boost for adult and child ' s hospice " , but neglect to say that this money would be available only for capital spending , as confirm in the write statement publish this afternoon . she repeatedly refer to the £ 100 million sum when ask about what step the Government be take to address the cost of national insurance increase for hospice , even though this money will not be available for staff cost . have Mr Speaker receive any indication from the Minister that she intend to correct the record ? I thank the hon . member for give notice of that point of order . while the Chair be not responsible for the content of contribution make by Ministers , I be sure that her concern have be hear by those on the Government Benches . if an error have be make in this instance , I be sure that the Minister will seek to correct it as soon as possible . Backbench Business Christmas Adjournment I beg to move , that this House have consider matter to be raise before the forthcoming adjournment . it seem like only a few day ago that we be have the pre - conference recess debate , yet here we be in the final day of 2024 . what a busy year it have be for all of we . we have have general election , mayoral election , leadership contest , gnarly Taylor Swift ' s Eras tour , the Paris Olympics , and President Trump re - elect to the White House , but still no trophy for Spurs . perhaps we can put that right in 2025 . I thank everyone who have play a part in make 2024 so special : the catering staff ; the House staff ; the Clerks ; the workman ; the staff in the post office , hairdresser , bar and shop on site ; the security team ; the Doorkeepers ; Mr Speaker and his Deputies , and their staff ; and my colleague and all their staff . I hope that everyone have a wonderful Christmas , relax with love one , friend and family , and I wish everyone the happy of new year , with peace , health and prosperity . at this time of the year , we should also think of those who be far less fortunate than ourselves . I have be pleased to take up the role of Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee this year , follow in the footstep of the former Member for Gateshead , after he stand down , have serve nine year as Chairman . I pay tribute to his hard work over that time , ensure that Back Benchers be able to bring their issue to the Floor of the House . I intend to do so in that capacity as well . as it be Christmas , I must say that my display of accismus to the position see off all the competition . the rest of my Committee and the Clerks have be invaluable in the transition , and I look forward to continue our work in the new year . another addition to my cv this year have be assume the role of Chairman of the prestigious — well , I would call it prestigious — 1922 committee . I be pleased that we have welcome our new leader , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , who have make a really good start in the five week since she be elect . I hope that Labour member do not get too comfy on the Government Benches , as we will be back in short order . I also thank my fellow officer , my hon . friend the Members for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) and for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , for their help and counsel over the past few month . it have certainly be a busy introduction to the job . transport for London have continue to be run into the ground , with spend priority that be short term , political and simply vain . the refurbishment of the central line need to be expedite . this be badly need , because it be my understanding that there be literally no more spare direct current motor for the 1992 stock available , necessitate their conversion to alternate current motor as a matter of priority . that may sound not so important , but the project have be go on for the last five year . TfL now have a completion date of 2029 for the project . that be outrageous . the Piccadilly line be four year behind schedule . the new train will not come into force until the end of next year ; they be suppose to come in in 2011 . now TfL be say that it do not have funding to upgrade the signalling either . the Bakerloo line have the old work train in regular service in the UK . those who have travel on they know how bad they be , yet TfL duck the issue of replace they again , cite funding as the reason . there be no plan to replace the 1972 stock , which many of my constituent have to use from station in my constituency , but there be money for Mayor Khan to pay off his union paymaster . there be also money to pay for a costly election year fare freeze gimmick , and £ 7 million to spend on a vanity project regard the London Overground , to say nothing of the choice of the line name themselves , which be at good virtue signal and at worst extremely confusing . Madam Deputy Speaker , you will be delighted to hear that I will not bore the House with the history of the name of the London Underground line , but they be either historically derive or name after royalty . the Overground line be certainly not . I be therefore disappointed that the Government see fit to reward this wanton destruction of TfL with a promotion for the former deputy Mayor for transport — she be the new Transport Secretary — and a possible knighthood for the man in charge of it all . nearly 200 , 000 people have already sign a petition call on the Government to reconsider , and I whole - heartedly agree . indeed , I would be more than happy to recommend colleague from the Government Benches who would be far more deserving of a knighthood than Mayor Khan . we should remember the violence be implement on Hindus and other minority in Bangladesh , and the attack in — can you believe it ? — Canada on Jews and Hindus in their synagogue and temple . that be outrageous . we in this House be all conscious of the escalate situation in the middle east , but there be a clear and present danger that if terrorist remain in Gaza , the conflict can not have a long - term solution . indeed , it could drag Hezbollah , Iran and extremist force in the middle east into a full - scale war with Israel , which none of we want to see . we should understand that the regime in Tehran be pure skibidi . on 25 June , Labour promise that if it be elect , it would proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in its entirety , as many of we have be call on previous conservative government to do for a number of year . on 8 July , the Guardian report that the Government would not proscribe the irgc as a terrorist group in its entirety , completely u - turn on their promise . I call on the Government to correct that error of judgment soon rather than later . I be honour recently to meet the inspiringly brave Mandy Damari — a woman with rizz . her daughter Emily Damari be still be hold hostage in Gaza . Emily be the last british hostage in Gaza . she be an avid Tottenham fan and an innocent young girl take from her apartment on 7 October 2023 . she have not be return , and she have be shoot , wound and not give medical treatment . it be totally unimaginable what she be go through . we must not let Emily be forget , and I urge the Government to work with the israeli Government to ensure a safe return as soon as possible . the long Emily be hold captive , the slim her chance become and the long she have to endure such dark day . my thought and prayer remain with the Damari family and those who have lose love one due to terrorism . another issue that the Government need to reconsider give the situation globally be their defence spending commitment or lack thereof . they commit to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence as soon as they could . now that have change to have a road map to achieve it . in this uncertain world , we need this to be accelerate , not delay . we have already hear that the Ministry of Defence face a large funding gap in the current financial year and in 2025 - 26 . in December , the National Audit Office identify a deficit in the equipment plan of £ 3 billion for this year and a further deficit of £ 3 . 9 billion for the following year . the MOD will have to find an extra £ 1 billion each year to fund the above - budget cost of the 2023 and 2024 pay settlement for the armed force . it be such an important point that the national interest should not be subject to party politic or spending review — the money should be ringfence . on 27 January , we mark Holocaust Memorial Day . I be pleased that through January there will be a range of activity to mark it , include the annual book of commitment , which I urge all colleague , especially those new to the House , to sign . they can place in it their commitment to combat antisemitism and hatred of people because of their religion , race or background . it be sadden that the tension in the middle east be so frequently spill over onto our street , with antisemitic behaviour rise by over 500 % compare with pre - 7 October level . we must stand up to that abominable behaviour , not allow any hate crime to take place , regardless of race or religion . during the festive period , it be particularly important to share a thought for those without a permanent home and those sleep rough . the winter month can be ruthless , with increase hour of darkness and plummet temperature . it can be an incredibly lonely period for those without any friend or a home to live in , watch everyone ignore they on the sidewalk while other enjoy quality time with their family . I send my good wish to my local charity FirmFoundation , which will be provide hostel accommodation once again , and to Crisis and all the other homeless charity , which do such good work . when pass someone who be sleep rough , do not just ignore they ; wish they a merry Christmas . that acknowledgment , with just a few word , could mean a lot to they . however , please do not give they money . give they food ; give they time and attention . let I mention at this point that , despite my prompting , the Government still have not implement the Supported Housing ( Regulatory Oversight ) Act 2023 , which be my private Member ' s Bill . I look forward to that happen in 2025 . I thank everyone in my constituency for their hard work over the past year . the support from councillor and activist every weekend , as we continue to knock on resident ’ door , be invaluable and greatly appreciated . the general election be , it be fair to say , very tough for my party , and I be sorry to have see so many great colleague depart this place — I look forward to many of they return . I be eternally grateful that we in Harrow East buck the trend and increase my majority , and grateful to everyone who help during that time , come rain or shine . I thank the resident of Harrow East for show up to vote for I , and the thousand of they who complete my survey on a range of issue . I have take up those issue and be organise meeting with the appropriate people to ensure that we get result for local resident . I never take this wonderful job for grant . come 2025 , I will be work tirelessly to stand up for the people of Harrow East , as all member should do for their constituency . I be delighted that the Government have get the Tobacco and Vapes Bill through to Committee stage in this House . I welcome their ambition to inherit the previous Government ' s goal of eradicate smoking from society and tackle youth vaping . I look forward to the continue work to scrutinise the Bill and ensure that all appropriate amendment be adopt so that we have a smokefree society in our lifetime . I pay tribute to my friend at action on Smoking and Health — in particular to Deborah Arnott , who retire this year after so many year lead the organisation — who have be tireless in provide briefing and meeting , and in host event for colleague and I . I recently visit the Royal National orthopaedic hospital in Stanmore for a productive meeting . I speak at great length with Paul Fish , the hospital ' s ceo , about future plan and improvement to the hospital . many of the outbuilding be in dire need of investment to maximise patient care . back in 2015 , I lead the campaign to get the hospital rebuild — at the time , the Care Quality Commission have deem it not fit for purpose . I be delighted that the previous Government allocate £ 42 . 5 million to rebuild the main site into the state - of - the - art centre that it be now , support literally thousand of people every year with their problem . as a fan of technology , I be particularly interested as I walk around the new x - ray wing , which have three new scanner specialise in different intricate requirement — we often downplay what the health service do in such specialist area . I be reach the end of my remark , as you will be delighted to hear , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I pay tribute to our great friend , the late , great Sir David Amess , who so love these debate . may he rest in peace and remain in our thought . I wish everyone a very merry Christmas , and a happy Hannukah , which start on Christmas day . I hope that everyone enjoy the rest and a well - deserve break with good food and good company — we will have the debate on obesity and food strategy when we return after Christmas . I also wish everyone a very happy new year . may 2025 be fill with positivity , peace , health and happiness . rise — I ask member to invoke the spirit of Christmas and help each other out by keep their contribution to around four minute so that we can get everybody in . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) . again , in the good tradition of Sir David Amess , I will be go around my constituency . he be sorely miss here , and our thought and prayer be with his family at this difficult time — a time of family . I will raise four local issue , one international , one national , and a partridge in a pear tree — sorry , that sound well in my head . the first local issue be the accessibility of Bescot railway station , which do not have access for disabled people or for parent and carer . I first make contact with the Minister of State for Transport in September 2022 , and despite a meeting in November 2023 with Walsall football club supporter , include disabled supporter , as well as Network Rail and West Midlands combine authority , nothing have happen . I ask Network Rail to look into the matter , and it say that it think there be a solution and would provide an answer in six month , but we be still wait . we have legislation enshrine in statute — the Railways Act 1993 , the Human Rights Act 1998 and the Equality Act 2010 — but I understand that Bescot Stadium station have be put on the list for 2027 . that mean that my poor constituent who be disabled or be parent with pushchair will have to wait until then , which be unacceptable . my constituent be not interested in a feasibility study of a feasibility study , so will the Minister — who it be very welcome to see in her place — raise this issue with the Secretary of State for Transport ? the second issue be bowel cancer . in Walsall and Bloxwich , emergency admission for case of bowel cancer be the high across the Black Country , double those of the next high . Walsall Manor be the only hospital in the Black Country that do not use robotic for bowel cancer . why should my constituent have to travel to New Cross hospital to access a quick , easy and cost - effective way to treat this cancer , which be the second most common cause of cancer death ? again , if the Minister would raise this issue with the public health Minister , that would be very welcome . the next issue be the use of school and save the taxpayer money . Sneyd community school be close in 2011 . it be re - establish as a university technical college by the University of Wolverhampton and Walsall college . that be close in 2015 , but it be a perfectly viable school . headteacher in the area have suggest that it could be use as a special school , but instead , public money be be use to destroy the vegetation in Reedswood Park to build a special free school . Joseph Leckie school have offer to work with the council to expand place where they be need — in fact , it have a waiting list of 30 place for each year . that school need a new canteen , kitchen and dining hall , and I have be work with it since 2010 so that it get its full allocation of Building Schools for the Future money , which it have not receive . the headmaster have say that he hope to fund " an inspirational learn campus that be really fit for purpose " . I hope the Minister will take that back to the Secretary of State so that we can all work together to ensure public money be use to expand the current school , rather than build a new school . our heritage in Walsall be under threat because the local council want to close the leather museum and move it to another area . it be the top attraction on Tripadvisor , and I suggest that hon . member come and visit . it be unique and interactive , with engage demonstration of leathercraft . I have be tell by the Worshipful Company of Saddlers that most UK business in the leather industry be base in Walsall , and leather good from my constituency be sell worldwide , include by Launer , one of the company that make the late queen ' s handbag . I be delighted that Baroness Hodge in the other place will be review the Arts Council , but as the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport have say , culture , museum , art and library be so important to our wellbeing . as such , will the Minister raise this issue with the Secretary of State ? the international issue I want to raise be that of Alaa Abd el - Fattah , a british citizen who be in prison in Egypt . he have a 13 - year - old son , and he be an Amnesty International prisoner of conscience . he need consular access and he need to come home , so can I ask the Minister to ask the Prime Minister to raise this case ? my final issue be the year of reading . we have a year of reading in 1998 to promote a culture of reading , and again in 2008 to build a nation of reader . read for pleasure have diminish , so will the Minister ask the Secretary of State for Education whether she will consider have a year of reading in 2026 ? finally , I wish everybody a very merry and happy Christmas , and thank all the staff in this place for their help and support throughout the year — include the Official Reporters , who be look down — and everybody else who have help we , include my hard - work staff . I hope everyone have a very peaceful time , give the really hard work we have have this year . ahead of the Christmas break , I be delighted to have this opportunity to recognise and celebrate some of the amazing organisation that serve the Scottish Borders all the year round . these group , and the volunteer who help keep they run , often do not get the praise they deserve , so I want to mark the excellent work of those who provide unbelievable support to so many people all the year round . the generosity and compassion of volunteer and worker across the Borders be incredible . I want to start by recognise the organisation that provide extra help to our NHS , and to patient and their family . I recently have the privilege of meet some of the Margaret Kerr fundraising team , who help support the purpose - build , specialist palliative care unit at Borders general hospital . I would encourage everyone to give anything they can to help this wonderful group and to keep the unit operate as effectively as possible for those who need treatment and care . I also thank the volunteer at the Borders Parkinson ' s support group . it be a pleasure recently to join the volunteer and service user , and to spend some time with those who attend . the meeting be well attend , good natured and very sociable , so well do to the volunteer for bring people together in this way . beyond healthcare and the NHS , I want to take this opportunity to recognise the passionate community campaigner who want the good for the Borders and who put in the work to make local project happen . the first of these fine group be the Campaign for Borders Rail — I have work with it for many year — which be seek to extend the Borders railway on to Hawick , Newcastleton and Carlisle . I have be do everything I can during my time as its MP , and previously as its MSP , to get this extension build . it be disappointing that the new Government have not yet commit to the funding to which the previous Government have commit for the feasibility study , but I will continue to push for that to be deliver . similarly , I pay tribute to the Rail Action Group East of Scotland for its campaign to get well train service along the east coast of Scotland and to get the station reopen at Reston a couple of year ago . I particularly want to mention two stalwart of this campaign , Barrie Forrest and Tom Thorburn , who have do so much to improve rail service over many year . beyond the transport network , lot of community group in the Borders be help to bring people together . first , I want to mention the Men ' s Shed network , which have multiple location across the Borders to promote the wellbeing and quality of life of local people . we be particularly lucky in the Borders to have the high number of man ' s shed locate there than in any constituency in the UK . secondly , I want to mention Escape Youth Services in Hawick , which provide incredible support to young people . I be delighted to be able to join one of its session recently , and the young people clearly love and enjoy the activity that the dedicated team of volunteer provide for they . I have a few other group to mention , include sustainable Selkirk and the Berwickshire Marine Reserve , which help preserve our environment . I also want to mention the local people who help promote our high street , because without thrive high street with local business and shop , our community would be greatly diminish . the team behind the Galashiels business improvement district recently have a huge success in persuade local business to back its plan , and I would also mention the General Store in Selkirk and Caf é ReCharge in Galashiels . to conclude , I wish every Member of the House a very merry Christmas and a happy new year when it come . Christmas be a time to be thankful , and I particularly want to thank the UK armed force personnel who will sacrifice their own festive break to serve our country . their selfless sacrifice and dedication should be an inspiration to we all . the same go for those in the NHS and the emergency service worker who work through the festive period to keep we healthy and safe . we owe they all our gratitude for continue to do their duty while most people take time off . although their effort be not as critical as those of our armed force and emergency service , we should not forget hospitality worker and small business owner who also work through the festive season . finally , I hope we will all take the chance over Christmas to think of those less fortunate than ourselves , and to look out for our neighbour , who may be lonely or struggle more at this time of year . even the small gesture of generosity can mean a lot to someone who may not have other to look out for they . happy Christmas to everybody . I want to highlight a few key issue in my constituency that I have be proud to work on since I be elect in July and flag up some issue that we intend to push in the future . I want to start with the Hitachi train factory in my constituency . I campaign on it for two and a half year , and it be a source of huge pride . many of we in this House spend a lot of our life on train and any of we who have travel with London North Eastern Railway , Great Western Railway , Avanti , East Midlands Railway or ScotRail will probably have be on a train build in my home town of Newton Aycliffe . that be a source of huge pride to the 750 worker who operate the plant , but also to the 1 , 500 people who work in highly skilled engineering job in the local supply chain . I be incredibly grateful to the work of the Prime Minister , FirstGroup , Angel Trains and other who come together to arrange a £ 0 . 5 billion deal to help secure the future of the factory . it be important because that factory sit on the line of the original Darlington to Stockton railway , the world ' s first passenger railway , which celebrate its 200th anniversary next year . that be incredibly exciting , and I be sure we can agree across the House that if 200 year ago we be lead the world in passenger rail , we as a country can do that again now . it have be fantastic to secure that factory , and I look forward to work with ministerial colleague and other as we continue to ensure it go from strength to strength . we also need to work on make sure that the rail manufacturing industry , not just in my constituency but in Derby and other proud railway town , have a sustainable future . I would like to work with ministerial colleague and other to ensure that . the second key issue we have work on to push high - tech job have be to find a future for the octric semiconductor factory in Newton Aycliffe . it be open by the late queen in 1991 and have some fantastic commercial order from Apple and other but , crucially , be make semiconductor for the future fighter jet programme that the United Kingdom be develop with our ally . after commercial contract be move abroad , there be a real threat to the semiconductor supply that be critical for our defence capability . I would like to put on record my thank to the Defence Secretary for step in to secure this plant and this sovereign supply of these crucial component which be central to our defence . I be grateful to meet my right hon . friend the Minister for Defence Procurement and Industry last week to talk about how go forward we can expand the skilled job and opportunity and apprenticeship in that factory , and the contribution it can make to our national defence . there be real opportunity in the defence sector and in defence - adjacent company to make sure we can provide more support , more opportunity , and more chance for innovation . at NETPark — North East Technology Park — in my constituency , just outside the village of Sedgefield , we have incredible business . Durham University spin - out be create satellite technology and produce radiation detection equipment use in Ukraine , make a huge contribution to the defence of the UK and our ally , but some of those business , because they be small and medium - sized enterprise , have say they sometimes find it easy to contract with NASA than with the Ministry of Defence . I be very grateful for the work of Defence Ministers in look into this but we must open up more opportunity for sme to contribute to our defence and innovation in that sector . on the topic of defence , I have thoroughly enjoy take part in the RAF strand of the armed force parliamentary scheme and pay tribute to all the service personnel I have have the honour to meet around our country . when elect , I do not expect to go to Anglesey by Chinook , and I do not expect to jump off a five - storey platform to sample basic parachute training , but what a privilege it have be to see at first hand not just some of the activity of our force but some of the fantastic capability we have around the country . I associate myself with the comment of the hon . member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) in ask everyone in this House to remember that while we , hopefully , have some downtime over Christmas , our armed force here and around the world remain on 24 - hour alert to defend we and defend our ally . our thank go to they for all the work they do . move to some Christmas cheer , member will be relieve to hear that I have decide after much thought not to release a Christmas single — a decision make in the public interest — but I pay tribute to spennymoor town band and spennymoor youth band , who put on a fantastic brass band concert on Saturday . I want to pay tribute to they not just for the quality of the music , but for the fantastic work that brass band like spennymoor town band do to train up the next generation of young musician , and to provide free music lesson in community where many parent would struggle to give access to such high - quality tuition . the musical culture of our community in County Durham be vital , and I put on the record my thank to spennymoor town band and youth band for all their work , particularly Hugh Stephenson , the president , and Fiona Casewell , the musical director . I conclude by wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , your fellow Deputy Speakers , Mr Speaker and all the House staff a merry Christmas and all member a happy new year . early this year , I initiate a Westminster Hall debate on headlight glare and the increase road safety risk result from modern vehicle headlight . I do so have read an article in my local newspaper , the Grimsby Telegraph , report on a study carry out by the Royal Automobile Club , and it emerge from the debate that the Department for Transport be undertake research . last week , in business question , I raise the matter with the Leader of the House , and I appreciate her reply say that she would get the Minister to follow up . I be plan on raise the matter in this debate anyway . I look forward to receive that update , but I hope that mention it yet again today will keep it on the Department ' s agenda . we all know that lighting technology have change considerably in the past decade or so . clearly it be to everyone ' s advantage that vehicle be well light , particularly for pedestrian , but there can be no doubt that the amount of glare have increase , and the Minister who respond to my May debate acknowledge that he be receive far more correspondence on this matter . Dr John Lincoln of LightAware , a charity that explore these issue , explain that although the human eye can adapt to a wide range of light level , from bright sunlight to almost total darkness , it can not do so in a short space of time . he go on to detail the various scientific issue involve . I appreciate that the issue be complex and that the Department will have to do much research before introduce any regulation , but it be important . it be not just that the light be much bright , but that some vehicle seem to have far more than require . there be also the issue of street furniture , such as where vehicle pass over road hump can glare oncoming driver . last January , the RAC publish the result of its research , show that 89 % of driver think that some or most headlight on the road be too bright . some 74 % say that they be regularly dazzle . that might result in part from the fact that we have many more large vehicle on the road , and they sit higher off the road . LightAware have carry out extensive research on that , and I hope the Department will soon conclude its own research . the College of Optometrists have suggest that as many as half of motorist over the age of 60 may have early - stage cataract in both eye . that make they even more vulnerable to glare from oncoming vehicle . I hope that we can fairly rapidly conclude that research and bring forward new regulation to improve road safety . I will touch on one or two constituency issue . I be sorry to bore member about this issue , but I can tell new member that the only way to get success in this place often be to bore Front bencher so that they eventually take action . in 2011 , I first raise the issue of direct train service from my constituency — then call Cleethorpes — to King ' s Cross , which be withdraw by British Rail in 1992 . I be still campaign . along with my friend the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) , we now await a meeting with yet another Minister from the Department for Transport to hopefully restore that service . as I have mention to many Transport Secretaries over the year , my constituency have 10 railway station , an international airport and the large port in the country , yet we still can not have a direct train service to London . that be crucial to the development of industry in the area and be fully support by big business . the Hull and Humber chamber of commerce have do much research on it . I very much hope that it will be bring forward in the not - too - distant future . I see that my time be run out , so I will restrict myself to just one other railway issue . it be interesting to hear the hon . member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) talk about the 200th anniversary of the Stockton and Darlington railway . as chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on rail , I hope that we can all join in mark that occasion . it will not be mark in Brigg , though . the rail service between Gainsborough , Brigg , Grimsby and Cleethorpes have one train a day and allow people only 90 minute to enjoy the sunny sand of Cleethorpes or the excellent shopping in Grimsby . it be pointless to run one service a day and give people only 90 minute at their destination . the service be run for the convenience of northern train , rather than for passenger . I see the Lord Commissioner of his Majesty ' s Treasury , the hon . member for Redcar ( Anna Turley ) , nod ; I hope that the message will get through to the Department for Transport . I could go on for much long , but I conclude by say happy Christmas to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to all member and staff , and a prosperous and safe new year . I have fully enjoy and embrace my first five month as Member of Parliament for Southend West and Leigh , despite , like many member , experience the whirlwind effect of settle into this place , set up my new office , and recruit my team . I have meet many people and hundred of organisation over the last five month . if you will indulge I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to bring to the House ' s attention four amazing project in my constituency . the Music Man Project be a UK charity found in Southend - on - Sea in 2000 . it provide a music education and performance service for people with learn disability , and teach child and adult to sing , sign and play original music and new arrangement . David Stanley , who found the project , have take it from strength to strength . there be now 14 regional Music Man project around the country , but the central hub remain in Southend . when I visit the project during rehearsal or see one of its performance , my mood be immediately lift and brighten . I attend its Christmas concert just last weekend , and it be simply amazing to see the participant all live their good life . I be delighted that his Majesty the King have award the project the King ' s award for voluntary service . I be sure that you will join I , Madam Deputy Speaker , in congratulate it . the late Sir David Amess , former MP for Southend West , be a trustee and big supporter of the project . he have the vision that one day its participant would perform on Broadway , and that be exactly what they be now aim to do in memory of Sir David . through fundraising effort , I hope that they will manage to make that dream a reality , because they really deserve it . if any member would like to contribute to get they there , that would be greatly appreciate . I be equally proud of the work of Southend food bank , under the umbrella of the Trussell Trust . it have eight outlet in Southend in total , five be in my constituency . More than 20 , 491 emergency food parcel be provide by Southend food bank in the past 12 month , with more than 8 , 000 go to child . Southend food bank have sadly see a 36 % increase in the number of parcel it be distribute . I thank the entire team of volunteer for their outstanding work in deliver that vital service week in , week out . I be delighted that the Government have hit the ground run to tackle child poverty with the child poverty taskforce . I look forward to see their work progress . St Vincent ' s be establish in 2000 in Southend , inspire by the work of the St Vincent de Paul Society in the area . it provide 20 , 500 hot meal in the last year to homeless people through its kindness kitchen , as well as a range of other service . I want to talk briefly about Matt Fright , whom I meet at a St Vincent ' s fundraise dinner . Matt previously suffer from drug and alcohol addiction , and be even catch up in drug dealing and end up homeless . through St Vincent ' s , he have totally turn his life around , and now work as the lead facilitator of its smart addiction programme and its hungry cupboard programme , which be part of its 3d printing work . it be a truly wonderful story of transformation . I be delighted to hear the Government announce a near - £ 1 billion investment for council to break the cycle of homelessness . finally , I want to briefly recognise Andy ' s Man Club , which open at Southend United football club in May 2021 . Andy ' s Man Club , which have group all around the country , be a space where man can go and speak openly about their mental health in a non - judgmental , non - clinical environment . man in particular can find it difficult to discuss their mental health , and to open up about how they be feel . just this past month , I have personally see the devastating effect of poor mental health go wrong . it have a heartbreaking effect on those who be leave behind . we need to do much more to get man talk and opening up about how they feel , so I be pleased that the Mental Health Bill be make its way through the other place , and will reach this place next year . as we enter the festive season , I thank all our blue - light worker , hospital staff and other who will keep we safe and well this Christmas season — and all year round . finally , Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish you , the other Deputy Speakers , Mr Speaker , the House staff , all member , their team and my wonderful team , as well as the constituent of Southend West and Leigh , a merry Christmas and a happy new year . happy Christmas , everyone . Patricia be a young , intelligent woman with a severe eat disorder . despite the tireless work of professional involve in her care , her mental health treatment need be not be meet , and her progress have stall . the east of England provider collaborative , which be responsible for referral to specialist eat disorder unit — sedu — be intend to ensure co - ordinate care close to home , but in Patricia ' s case , it have fail profoundly . since become involve in July , I have observe a pattern of miscommunication , delay and systemic neglect . my attempt to engage with professional at the Cambridge and Peterborough foundation trust , which provide local eat disorder service , be initially refer to lawyer , and the communication relationship between Patricia , her family , and care provider be all but break . meanwhile , there appear to be no overall co - ordination of or plan for Patricia ' s care . this summer , Patricia stabilise medically during a long admission at Norfolk and Norwich hospital . she be promise an assessment for referral to a sedu , but face prolonged delay , only to be reject for admission . she be devastate , yet resolve to continue to seek help . at the time , I accept that it might simply be the case that Patricia be not medically stable , despite that be at odd with what her clinician at the hospital be say . National NHS guidance require " coordinate care and effort to reduce and prevent gap during service transition " , yet Patricia ' s transition between service have be anything but co - ordinate . crucially , she have be deny care base on her disability and mobility need . in meeting with those involve in her care , I seek close collaboration between acute and mental health trust , a patient - centre care plan , a dedicated caseworker and the appointment of an external specialist . instead , the response be a share email inbox — hardly the co - ordinate expert oversight require . Patricia ' s eat disorder be not " treatment - resistant " or " untreatable " , as some have claim ; these term lack empirical basis and perpetuate stigma . yet Patricia have be judge for behaviour symptomatic of her condition — at one point , her care team remove she from a sedu waiting list after she " confess " to such behaviour . this stigmatise approach be unacceptable . Patricia ' s complex need , include autism and pathological demand avoidance , require an integrated approach . some of the thing that I and other have advocate for she to receive have be deny ; other be take a very long time to materialise . I understand that external psychiatrist be no long invite to the weekly meeting about her care . instead , the same individual who seem to have give up on she also advise the integrate care board , create a troubling conflict of interest . the collaborative care model appear to have fail she , and concern raise by other professional have be ignore . that lead I to request NHS England ' s intervention . disturbingly , I learn that Patricia ' s court ruling , which prevent force treatment , be be use to justify withhold all care unless she comply with rigid , unattainable demand . that ultimatum — our way or the highway — be unethical and counterproductive , particularly for someone with autism and PDA . far , Patricia ' s care documentation reveal a fatalistic approach that misrepresent her condition , effectively ensure rejection from sedu . I believe this be a systemic issue , reflect the toxic ideology in certain part of the eat disorder treatment system that some patient be untreatable and should not be treat . this ideology , detail in a controversial article in the Royal College of Psychiatrists newsletter , have no basis in evidence , yet it appear to influence Patricia ' s care . she be sadly not alone in face that . eat disorder have the high mortality rate of any mental illness , yet Patricia have be systematically exclude from lifesave treatment . nhs guidance have be repeatedly breach . CPFT reject external opinion , and even offer of eat disorder specialist therapy support within the hospital setting . Patricia need a stable , specialist placement , with integrate medical and mental health treatment , yet she remain trap in a cycle design , I believe , to have her fail . clinician who find themselves believe that there be nothing that can or should be do in a case should step aside from any role in it , not preside over it . difference of opinion be essential to develop area of healthcare , but they should be support by supervision and challenge , not be encampment of ideology . characteristically , Patricia refuse to die . I urge the House to support direct NHS England commission of a sedu placement for she , bypass CPFT and its affiliate . her case need a proper second opinion , and we need support for setting that be be ask to consider admit she . the case will then need very careful handle to ensure her consent and participation , but I believe that can be achieve . Patricia ' s experience be a stark reminder of the injustice face by vulnerable individual in a system that should protect they . her story echo other national scandal where institutional neglect have cause immense harm . I be speak today because Patricia , her family and I be at our wit ' end . she have a huge amount of value to offer the world . she be at a desperate stage of her illness , yet she refuse to give up . treatment be her only chance and we must not abandon she . she will continue her fight . her family will continue to fight , and I will be by their side every step of the way , but the NHS must act urgently to hold its service accountable , ensure adherence to guideline , and provide the care that Patricia and countless other deserve . rise — before I call the next speaker , I will have to impose a four - minute time limit . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to participate in today ' s debate . as we approach the festive season , I extend my warm wish to everyone in the House — to you Madam Deputy Speaker , and to the dedicated staff who help make this place so special and kind . Christmas offer a timely opportunity to reflect on the achievement , community spirit and remarkable individual who make up the heart of our constituency . I would like to express my deep gratitude to the individual , charity , business and organisation that make Suffolk Coastal such a special place . one such group be Pitstop in Felixstowe , where Liss and her team of volunteer do exceptional work support young family in need . their work go beyond provide material thing such as food and clothe . they work to ensure that no family feel isolated or alone . that be especially important during the holiday , but important at any time of year . the Woodbridge branch of the Salvation Army be a shine example of our community give back . during my recent visit , I have the pleasure of meeting Alan , Tanya and their team of volunteer , who work tirelessly to provide food and essential supply to those face hardship or loneliness . a few week ago , I hold a pop - up surgery at the Salvation Army ' s food bank . Citizens Advice be there to provide financial support to those in need . I be able to provide financial advice and give support to people who face real and press poverty , and to those who have unexpectedly find themselves on hard time . that be a pretty normal surgery experience for I . then I meet Edward . Edward be 42 and street homeless . he be a fisherman previously , in Aldeburgh . he have a stable job , a home and a relationship . when thing start to go wrong for he , as they do for we all at some time in our life , it affect his mental health , which mean that he turn to drug . the drug take over his life , and it spiral from there . when I meet Edward the other week , he be clean . he have manage to get clean on his own , and have be sofa surfing , but then , naturally , the good will of his friend run out . when that luck run out , he have move into a disuse caravan on private land that he have find near Woodbridge . his only coat have be steal some day early . my team be able to get he some emergency help , and it be the Salvation Army that so kindly step in and buy he a brand - new coat from Mountain Warehouse on the same day . he be later place in emergency temporary accommodation , and he be now be support by the council ; but it be that friendship and support from the Salvation Army that give he the first glimmer of hope that he have feel in month , with a warm meal , a new coat , and a safe place to begin the journey to find temporary accommodation . I want to place on record my sincere thank to the Salvation Army , and , indeed , to all those group that do so much to support our constituent . Woodbridge be one of the many beautiful market town in my constituency that tourist flock to , and just the other week it be vote the happy place in the country in which to live . as someone who live in Woodbridge , I wholeheartedly and unapologetically agree . however , whenever I talk about the beauty of Suffolk Coastal I feel a desperate need to talk about the other side of the constituency as well , and Edward ' s story be a real reminder of that . I fear that many people do not see the poverty or the struggle face so many people in my constituency . in Suffolk Coastal we have 23 % of child on free school meal , but in Southwold , the place that the tourist coo over , we have 39 % , and in just one primary school in Southwold one in two child receive it . we have food bank in every single town in my constituency , and they be grow in each of our village and parish . we have a housing waiting list that only increase each year , with 150 household in east Suffolk live in temporary accommodation — which mean that this Christmas , 188 child will be live in hotel or b & Bs . that be no way for any child to live at any time of year . the work of our community to fix some of the most pressing issue must be commend ; I have already talk about the work of some of our amazing food bank , and it do not stop there . as you can imagine , Madam Deputy Speaker — Order . the hon . Lady ' s time be up . I believe that the Government should be hold a debate on the UK - wide impact of the closure of the port of Holyhead . although port in Wales be a matter for the Welsh Government , international trade be a matter reserve to the UK Government , and Holyhead ' s strategic location be key to the UK economy . Westminster can not ignore this issue . the port sustain serious damage in the aftermath of storm Darragh , and all sailing have be cancel until 15 January at the very early . the storm bring gust of up to 94 mph and cause enormous disruption to the port , which provide the main sea route between north Wales and Ireland and be the UK ' s second busy roll - on roll - off port . its closure just before Christmas have have a direct impact on livelihood and business on the island : the sudden ending of freight traffic mean that business have see their work vanish overnight . this be push local business to breaking point . the owner of Royalty Recruitment , a family - run business , tell I that they have have to let 10 brand - new staff member go , three of whom have only recently join they . Holyhead Truck Service be another local business that have be affect ; it have see its work dry up completely , as 40 % of its annual income be from mechanical work for irish company . this time of the year would usually be the busy period for these business , but now they be face huge job cut and reduce demand owe to the closure of the port . the sudden loss of income be unsustainable for many business , and job loss will push family into financial hardship , leave they struggle to pay their bill . in a statement early this week , the Secretary of State for Wales do not announce any direct support from the UK Government to address the crisis . I be certain that if we be talk about the Port of Dover or an airport in London be close for at least a whole month , there would be a huge effort to get the site open again and to support the thousand of supply - chain job affect , but so far Holyhead have be treat as an afterthought . the UK Government must recognise the huge impact that the closure of the port will have not only on trade — give that total UK export to Ireland amount to £ 54 billion and that Ireland be the UK ' s third large export partner — but on the livelihood of the people of Ynys M ô n and north Wales . they should set up a hardship fund to support business and family directly affect by the closure , as well as those involve in the supply chain . the funding should be direct towards the council and third sector organisation that be well place to offer financial and other support to those struggle . the port operator say that the early the port may open be 15 January . however , that be with weather permit , and I fear that more cold and stormy weather at this time of year will push the date back . once the port reopen , the damage do to the local economy will take time to heal . decisive action by both the UK and Welsh Governments be need to minimise the damage and the suffering that people will be feel . as climate change fuel more violent storm , the Port of Holyhead will be vulnerable to closure again . the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) , have join my call for support for business . she write to the Secretary of State for Business and Trade yesterday to seek an update on the support that the UK Government be provide to get the port back up and run , and to all business and employee impact by the closure . the Government must step up and provide the emergency funding need to get we through this difficult period of time . give the festive season , I think it appropriate to use this time to celebrate my constituency and to say a few thank yous . most importantly , I thank the people of Luton South and South Bedfordshire for re - elect I as their Member of Parliament in July . follow boundary change , I be proud to represent the good people of south Bedfordshire ; a number of village and swathe of beautiful countryside have be add to the urban landscape of the constituency . I be grateful to people in the new part — include Kensworth , Studham and Eaton Bray , to name but a few place — for elect I , because some of they have never vote Labour before . the new constituency boundary also mean that I now represent more animal than ever before — if that be a thing — give that Whipsnade zoo and Appledown rescue and re - home kennel be both within Luton South and South Bedfordshire . I thank all who work or volunteer with those great charity . my rescue dog , Maisie , would of course want I to remind everybody that a dog be for life , not just for Christmas . it be an honour and a privilege to represent my home town of Luton — the place where I grow up and go to school , where I live , and where I previously represent resident as a local Labour councillor . this place can be a bit intimidating at time , but I always remember where I come from when face with challenge . I be Luton bear and breed , which keep I ground every day . Luton sometimes have an unjustified bad reputation , but we have plenty to be proud of , and I want to focus on the positive that our town have to offer . this year , Radio 1 bring the Big Weekend to Luton . it be a wonderful opportunity to showcase our town , with brilliant musical performance from star include Sabrina Carpenter , Teddy Swims , Raye and , much to the delight of many Lutonians , Coldplay . they make up a song entitle " Orange " to celebrate the colour of our brilliant Luton Town football club — but I do not need Chris Martin to say , " I be bear in love with Luton and I ' m always go to be . " speak of our football club , it be a brilliant and exciting time for LTFC . this week , the planning committee at Luton council formally approve plan for the new Power Court stadium development . it mark a huge moment of regeneration in our town , with plan for restaurant , a hotel and a music venue alongside the stadium , make Luton a destination not only for football , but for entertainment . a place be only as good as the people in it , and our beautifully diverse and vibrant community across Luton South and South Bedfordshire be what truly make the constituency so special . there be some wonderful community organisation and charity that do so much to support those in most need . I thank Luton food bank , as well as NOAH and Signposts , for support many people in need . I thank Luton Irish Forum , which provide invaluable support , include debt and welfare advice and so much more . I thank Luton citizen advice bureau for all it do , and for the guidance and support that it offer people across the town in time of need . we have excellent organisation dedicate to support woman and girl , and I thank Women ' s aid , Luton all Women ' s Centre and Stepping Stones . a healthy society can only be achieve by ensure that we have support for those who need it , particularly with regard to mental health . I thank Healthwatch Luton , Mind BLMK , Headway , our community mental health hub and local Samaritans for all that they do . alongside our civic society , we must remember our faith community , who , during 14 year of Tory austerity , step up to fill the welfare gap that the previous Government create in town like our . finally , I want to mention all our public service worker who sacrifice so much to keep we healthy and safe , many of whom will not get to rest over Christmas , include Bedfordshire police , Bedfordshire Fire and Rescue Service and all our doctor , nurse , paramedic and NHS staff at Luton and Dunstable hospital . Merry Christmas and happy new year to one and all . I often think of our role as place - maker , problem solver and great representative of our constituency , and on that basis , I say a huge thank you to all of my constituent for re - elect I . there be load of fuel in the tank to keep I go in represent the mighty constituency of Keighley and Ilkley with great enthusiasm and energy . I reaffirm my commitment to do my very good as their local champion . of course , place - make be all about drive local growth within our community . that be why I want to go through some of the key project across my constituency that I be honour to be work on . a lot of this work come on the back of money from the last Conservative Administration , who allocate and ringfence £ 33 . 6 million specifically to Keighley through the Keighley town fund . this funding be aim at drive growth by use public sector money to try to drive private investment into the centre of Keighley . one of those great project be Providence Park , which be due to open early next year . next door to that , we have Keighley train station , which have just benefit from a £ 9 million funding allocation . far along the same road , Keighley fire station be undergo development . we also have a new skill hub , a new manufacturing , engineering and tech hub , and a new health and wellbee hub come down the line shortly . that be not to mention our mighty Keighley Cougars , to which the last Conservative Administration allocate £ 2 million to regenerate the stand for the benefit of fan . haworth village hall be benefit from money to make sure that our community group can continue their range of activity . Keighley central hall be also benefit from money . the building of a new sixth - form college have also be announce . I urge the Government to stick to this plan , as I know it be currently under review . we need this new sixth - form college , announce by the last Conservative Administration , to be complete . Madam Deputy Speaker , your constituent will also benefit from our new Airedale hospital , which be a huge achievement . from the moment I be elect in 2019 , I campaign tirelessly for ringfenced money to get our new hospital build , and I be very pleased that work be under way . we also have the city of culture — or , as I like to call it , the district of culture — come to the Bradford district . it be incredibly important that Keighley , Ilkley , Silsden and the Worth valley all benefit from the money that be come to the Bradford district . I also say a huge thank you to our small business . I hold small business award every year , and I be incredibly grateful to everyone in my constituency who nominate our mighty small business . I be very pleased to say that this year ' s winner be : within the Wood , from the Worth valley ; Clara ' s Closet , from Keighley ; Raymond Town Menswear , from Ilkley ; and Isherwood ' s butcher , from Silsden , which win our overall small business award . thank you to those small business that keep our local economy go , and to all those who shop local . before closing , I would like to say that I be very sadden to learn of the death of an individual who work tirelessly as chair of the Keighley town fund . unfortunately , Ian Hayfield pass away just a couple of day ago , and I want to put on record my incredible thank for his tireless energy in drive positive growth in Keighley . I be sure everyone in Keighley will want to do the same . I thank everyone in my constituency for their effort in the run - up to Christmas , and I wish all member a very happy Christmas . it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) . like he , I would like to continue the wonderful tradition of our late colleague from Southend and do a brief tour around my constituency of Reading Central , start with a quick word about read football club , talk about read gaol and local art , and move on to thank small business and charity . the wonderful reading FC be one of the long establish club in the English league , but sadly , because of poor ownership , it be currently languish in league 1 . the club have a glorious history , have have many great cup run and hold the record for score the high ever point total in the championship : 106 point — 99 goal — in the 2005 - 06 season . if I have one request for Santa , I would ask that read FC have a new owner for Christmas . I would like to see Dai Yongge pack his bag and head home , and a new owner , who can take the club forward , come in , invest in its future and get we back into the championship . who know , maybe we can get back into the premiership , in which we play for three season , over two stint ? if we could achieve that , it would be truly wonderful and every child in Reading would be delighted ; it would be the good possible Christmas present they could ever wish for . Dai Yongge have have the club up for sale for a year and have turn down two bid . sadly , he be associate with two overseas club that close , so there be a great deal of concern from fan and other local resident about the future of the club . we have also lose the manager recently , who have move to Hull City . I wish the new manager , Noel Hunt , well , but there be real concern about the future of the club . I hope that Dai Yongge can listen , sell the club and move on . on read gaol , we have well news . I wish the new owner , read borough council and Historic England well in their effort to try to turn the wonderful former gaol into something special , by redevelop it in a constructive way and provide a significant amount of art provision in our town centre . Oscar Wilde be incarcerate in read gaol . it be an incredible building and a wonderful example of early victorian architecture . if it be open to the public , it would prove to be an incredible visitor attraction . it be briefly open in the mid - 2010s when Artangel hold installation art and poetry reading in the gaol , which attract thousand of people from across the country . have the gaol as an art hub would be worthy of our town ; it have a very successful music festival and many other art activity , but it do not have an art venue of this type . I be campaign for that and I look forward to success in the new year . finally , I can not mention all the winner of my small business competition individually , but I thank they for their effort in drive growth in our local economy , provide employment and make our town centre , and other local centre , vibrant place to visit , which shopper and other resident much enjoy . I pay tribute to the many charity in the read area that do wonderful thing at Christmas , and all year round , in particular Toys and Teens , which be a fantastic appeal that have make many child very happy at Christmas , and the many other wonderful local charity . I also thank all those work at Christmas , particularly those in our NHS , other emergency service worker and many other who provide vital service while we be all enjoy Christmas with our family . before I finish , I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and your colleague , all our colleague across the parliamentary estate , include the Doorkeepers and the other staff who make this place such a wonderful place to work . I wish the public , especially resident in Reading , a very happy Christmas and a wonderful new year . People up and down the country be big fan of Formula 1 , so I be honour to congratulate McLaren , base in my constituency of Woking , on the extraordinary achievement of win the constructor ' championship , the first time it have do so since 1998 . that monumental success be an indication of the hard work and innovation of the team at McLaren . I have submit an early - day motion congratulate McLaren on champion the UK ' s lead role in Formula 1 . McLaren ' s victory represent far more than a sporting win . it show british high - quality manufacturing at its good — that be what we , as a country , do so well — and although I be focus on McLaren and Formula 1 , our high - quality manufacturing be excellent in other area too . in Woking , we be immensely proud to be the home of a team that have not just win Formula 1 , but stand at the cutting edge of technology , engineering and high - quality manufacturing . McLaren be a major employer in Woking , offer high - quality job and training opportunity . it embody the kind of forward - think enterprise that we need more of in Woking , in Surrey and across the UK . british manufacturing be world - lead and McLaren ' s success shine a light on that and show what british firm can achieve on a global stage . high - quality manufacturing create the high - quality job that we as a country need if we be go to get people out of the cost of live crisis and help they increase their and their child ' s life chance . if we attract more business like McLaren and give they the opportunity to establish and then thrive , we could ensure that high - quality manufacturing in Britain be here to stay . I want to see Woking continue as a hub for cut - edge technology and world - class manufacturing . we can create that right environment by encourage investment and attract business that share McLaren ' s ambition . that mean support apprenticeship and the skill training that be need , invest in infrastructure and fund more in research and development . McLaren win the championship in 1998 . as a small child grow up in Woking , I remember when they drive their car around the town , lead by Mika H ä kkinen . they hit pothole then , and I hope they celebrate on the street of Woking again — I have call for they to do so — though I fear they will once more hit a pothole . that be why we be proud of they in Woking . I again congratulate Lando Norris , Oscar Piastri and the entire McLaren team on their remarkable achievement , and I hope to do the same next year . Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish you and everyone on the parliamentary estate a merry Christmas and a happy new year . it be a genuine pleasure to speak in my first Christmas adjournment debate . I want to use the time to make two Christmas wish and say some thank yous before we all begin drive home for Christmas . in that song , Chris Rea say , " it ' s go to take some time but I ' ll get there " and nowhere be that more apt than in Dartford , where resident face gridlock , spill from the river crossing at one end of the constituency and a long - term blockage to a major route out to the east of the constituency , where my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) represent the community . as another song go , " I don ' t want a lot for Christmas there be just one thing I need … all I want for Christmas be " spade in the ground on the propose new low Thames crossing . perhaps take my advice from the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) , it would be remiss of I not to mention it , and I hope that after almost 15 year of wait 2025 will finally see the project start and I will not have to mention it again . I also look forward to work in 2025 with member from across the House , the other place and Ministers to promote fair economic growth across the Thames estuary . if I be allow a second wish — I promise it be a very simple one — I would like to work with my hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) to persuade the Government of the need to get on and get the Elizabeth line out to Ebbsfleet , where it should finish . I want to use this time to thank some of the wonderful business , community group and faith group for welcome I so warmly as their Member of Parliament since my election in July and for make my constituency such a fantastic place to live , full of civic life and activity . they be : we be Beams and all the business that support they ; home - Start North West Kent ; Dartford church food bank , which keep people from destitution ; Rev . Mandy Young at St Alban and St Edmund King and Martyr church ; the Winners chapel in Dartford and its great community work ; our great community pharmacy , which keep people well ; help Hands in Swanscombe ; the Ellenor and Demelza hospice , which receive good news today from the Government about their funding ; the Dartford gurdwara ; the organiser of the festival of Ganesh from our Hindu community and the nepalese teej ; Dartford FC , which be currently a brilliant fourth in the isthmian league and look for promotion ; Fairfield leisure centre and its great public health work with our local community ; the team at all Directions ; Millie Gooch and the Sober Girl Society , with her great work on alcohol harm ; Sue Stockham and her formidable work combat ovarian cancer ; Cohesion plus , which organise the Dartford light festival , Black History Month and so much else ; the Ebbsfleet event committee behind the Christmas fair and other great activity ; Vijay and the great Dartford Living magazine and networking evening ; Dartford Central Park Athletics and Dartford Central Park parkrun , which have just celebrate its 10 - year anniversary ; and the amazing team at Dartford fire station . I can not let this speech end without congratulate my excellent colleague on Dartford Labour group and , of course , my amazing team here in Westminster and out in my constituency . I hope the House will permit I one last indulgence : on behalf of everyone who live in Dartford , I thank the emergency service staff who will work right through the Christmas break to keep we safe and well , include the staff at the wonderful Dare nt Valley hospital . I will end by wish hon . member across the House , and all the House staff , a wonderful Christmas , particularly the Minister , who will be respond to this debate ; she be one of the good thing to come out of Dartford . I wish everyone here a merry Christmas and look forward to see they in the new year . first , let I thank all my staff in the office back home for all the work that they do . their effort be the reason that my constituency office work so well . in the short time that I have , I want to give a message of hope . I be think about what I want to say a long time ago . it seem like it be only yesterday that we be bring in the new year , and now that have pass . I think of the loss of friend and my heart ache at the thought of those empty chair around the Christmas table , which many of we will have . for those whose loved one be in hospital and not with they , and those whose family work in essential care , Christmas can be a lonely time . I be remind of Ecclesiastes 3 : 1 - 8 : " to everything there be a season , and a time " . time can be tough . I think of those who be struggle financially and who can not find a way to solid ground . they can not see a way forward , and they have nowhere to turn . I think of those who have lose relationship with partner or child and who find themselves in a position where they be all alone . I think of those who be await news from hospital or from test , or who be watch their ill love one , not know what the year hold . I can understand the hopelessness that flow from that , yet I have a faith that sustain I . I be remind of the Christmas message — the ultimate message of faith , hope and love . I often cling to the scripture in Hebrews 10 : 23 " let we hold fast the confession of our hope without waver , for he who promise be faithful . " I know that , while time may be difficult , God be faithful and will never leave we alone in our struggle . he never leave I alone . the Christmas message be from a God who love we so much that he send his only son to die so that we could have life . the message that come from his perfect and sinless life , his shameful death and his glorious resurrection be one that give we hope over 2 , 000 year later . this be not a nice story wrap in a bow . this be a story of desolation and despair , yet the plan of God , which be not always easy to see or to understand , be at work in turn it all for the good for all of we . the baby in the manger — the Christ on the cross — be the King of Glory . I be thankful that this remind I of the hope that I have when I hold fast to he . as we consider the Christmas story , we must remember that it do not end with the gift of the three king , with a miracle at a wedding , or with a cross on a hill . it be an unfold story in which right hon . and hon . member have a part to play . we can all choose to bring light and hope . in a world of despair , I find that there be still goodness all around we . I think the goodness of God be see through the goodness of people around we . when I think about all the good work carry out by the volunteer , the Church and the charitable sector and when I see the goodness of community group and neighbour , I be remind that people be still good . when I read of those act of kindness to stranger , I think of what it say in the good book — if we entertain a stranger , we could be entertain an angel . who know who we will meet in this world when we do something good for a stranger . in his introduction to the debate , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) refer to help those homeless people on the street . again , that remind I that people be still good . there be still a desire to help other , and God still move in situation . a world without hope be a world in darkness . although it may feel like the sky be darken , I have faith because I have see goodness and light throughout this year , dispel the darkness . to conclude , from my home to each and every home in this wonderful United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland — I love tell people that we be all well together in this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland — I wish you all a very happy Christmas and bless new year . it be with hope in my heart that I trust that we will all see the goodness of God through the goodness of the people we meet in 2025 . I will use my time in this debate to raise an issue that we have hear so much about over the last six month : the crisis in special educational need . two week ago , I have the privilege of visit a coffee morning hold by Family Voice in my constituency of Guildford . I be honour to hear some story from a group of mum who share their experience relate to their child ' s journey , and try to get support for those young people . every single one of they stress to I how challenge those journey have be , with email go unanswered ; caseworker who go on holiday and never come back ; month — sometimes year — of their child not be able to attend education ; thousand of pound spend on private assessment to get the support that their child need , or appeal decision make by the local authority ; and fight every day to be hear , and the exhaustion that that bring . the thing that distress I most be the moment when one mum share that , as a result of the whole process , she have consider suicide . then another mum say the same thing . how be we in a position that the process that be design to support and provide for young people be create so much distress that family be at break point and even consider end their own life ? I be deeply grateful to Education Ministers for make it very clear that the Government be commit to address the SEND crisis , and I hope to be able to work with the Government to address it in 2025 . I will tell the House two very quick story to emphasise how desperately the situation need to change . the first be that of a 17 - year - old woman in my constituency who have be out of school for five and a half year . she be not able to do her gcse . she be give a placement in October at a place where she have thrive . she have say herself that she have feel see and have find her community , but that placement have not yet be renew by the local authority . she have be fail , and the hope that be there have potentially be rip away . the second story be that of a nine - year - old boy with autism and pathological demand avoidance . the local authority , Surrey , send he to an independent school in 2022 to provide for his need . that school have now say that it can not provide for those need . it have remove his placement and say that it will not hold the place while his family try to find a school . I find that deeply unacceptable . they be apparently not the only family who have experience that off - roll , but Surrey say that the family have elect to home - school . will the Minister ask a colleague to meet I to discuss the practice of off - rolling , which I be sure be happen not just in my own constituency ? I reiterate that so many of we will have receive deeply distressing email seek support from our resident . these be the people who be able to advocate for themselves . how many family be unable , for various reason , to advocate for themselves ? as we try to fix the SEND crisis , we must remember that we do so not just for the family we hear from every day in our inboxe . at the moment , I have nearly 50 separate case , but we be also seek to fix the crisis for those family we do not know about . I hope that we will be able to work across the House in 2025 to fix this crisis , because we can not and must not continue to allow our child to be fail . I wish a very happy Christmas to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to all the staff of the House of Commons for the work they do to support all of we . I also thank all the people who work so hard in my constituency in a series of community centre , school and other place , and all those who help , support and work in the food bank in my constituency . I feel sad that food bank have now become institutionalised within our society . fifteen year ago , there be almost no food bank ; now they be all over the country . we need to look at the problem of inequality and poverty in our society . I feel sad that over the past five month in this Parliament , since the general election , we have miss opportunity to end the two - child benefit cap and to reduce level of poverty among many old people . in fact , we have make it bad by end the winter fuel allowance . we have allow Royal Mail to be run by yet another private sector operator , which will take profit out of it , rather than bring it into public ownership to ensure that the people of this country benefit from our old public service . when the House return in January , the issue of the water industry will have to be address . water company across the country be pay their chief executive officer the most massive salary imaginable and take out huge profit , which be often pay to overseas investor in our industry , and we have catastrophic level of pollution in our river and sea . the water company for my area , Thames Water — the most indebted such company around — expect to put up bill even high to pay for infrastructure , which it could have pay for itself have it not be pay so much money to private investor all over the world . the case for public ownership of water be absolutely overwhelming . I want quickly to mention some other issue in the last couple of minute I have . our society be precious and valuable , but in the past year we have see the rise of racism in our society , and a culture of blame migrant and refugee for the problem people face in housing , education and health . it be nothing to do with they ; those problem be the result of a lack of investment in those service . can we resolve over Christmas to have respect for those people who be try to make a safe place to live and contribute to our society , rather than this culture of blame migrant and people who have come from Calais merely because they be try to survive in a difficult world beset by war and conflict ? that would help a great deal . my constituent be wonderful people , but many have the most appalling housing problem to deal with . there be the street homeless , who be help by various organisation , include the local authority , and I do not blame they for the problem at all . there be those live in the grotesquely overpriced private rent sector , those live in increasingly undemocratically run housing association , and those live in lease property where they pay exorbitant charge for ground rent and service and have little control over their own life . I appreciate what the Government have bring forward in the Renters ' Rights Bill . I welcome it , as far as it go , but we need to have a furth , deep think about housing as a right and as something that people need , and not the exorbitant cost at present . with that , I wish you a very happy Christmas , Madam Deputy Speaker . this week mark the end of Disability History Month , which have give we all a chance to highlight the experience of disabled people and to support disability right . in Bath , 30 % of all household include at least one person with a disability . I recently visit Carrswood day service to learn more about the incredible work it do to support adult with learn disability in the city . the service also provide respite for unpaid family carer , who be often the primary caregiver — where would we be without our unpaid carer ? the visit also highlight the rake up and grow initiative — a vocational project that help adult with learning disability gain practical skill through community gardening project . the project not only help build skill , but promote social inclusion and community engagement . by work with local organisation , such as the Royal United hospital , Bath Rugby Community Foundation and other , rake up and Grow provide fantastic opportunity for disabled people and people with learn disability . Bath and North East Somerset Third Sector Group — 3sg — be a voluntary , community and social enterprise infrastructure network for around 250 charity , provide one - to - one support , training , event and wide advocacy work in the sector . charity be the ever - constant , extra support go above and beyond every single day . now more than ever , charity be need to pick up those wait for statutory service , or just those who be fall through the crack . they employ highly skilled worker and strategic thinker , many of whom be deliver daily lifesave intervention and deserve to be equal partner in any conversation with the Government and the NHS . the work of the third sector can not be overstate , but charity be now at break point . for too long they have be ask to do more for less . the third sector applaud well wage for all but urge the Government to reconsider its non - exemption from national insurance increase . I know that 3sg BaNES have survey its member charity in Bath and north - east Somerset , and those affect by the Budget will need to find between £ 4 , 000 and £ 400 , 000 in extra cost every year . those be big amount of money for organisation that already have to survive on dwindle resource . so 3sg urge the Government to consider the pressure that they will put on the third sector , include hospice , if they do not lift the NIC increase . I and the Liberal Democrats urge the Government to consider that again . as someone have say , the Government always say no before they say yes , so I be hopeful . when I think of all our local charity and the good they do , I wonder where we in Bath would be without they and all the wonderful service they provide . I thank all those who work in the charitable sector and in voluntary organisation , all family carer and all those who look after people who be sick and need our support this Christmas . I wish they all a very merry Christmas . I wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and everybody across the House , a merry Christmas . I thank the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) for open the debate . he be a fellow Bob and a fellow Spurs fan . I be not sure how much we will agree on in 2025 , but something we certainly do agree on be spur win something . this be the one ! yes . the hon . Gentleman cover lot of local and international issue , which I think demonstrate the breadth of debate in this place . before I respond to some of the Back - Bench contribution , I will focus a little on my work in Carshalton and Wallington . I make three big promise to my constituent : on the NHS , on the cost of live and on the environment . I feel that I have make some progress in my first few month in office . first , I have negotiate with the NHS trust and the Health Secretary on the future of our local St Helier hospital . we hope that will mean that we will retain our A & E service and get a new building in our community in the next year . secondly , on the cost of living , I be privileged to sit on the Treasury Committee , so I get to examine very closely the country ' s finance and , I hope , to make an impact on the economy more broadly . thirdly , on the environment , I have be focus on my local river , the Wandle . I make a documentary film about it last year , and we be do a short follow - up in the new year — just in time for the Oscars . we have hear lot of brilliant tribute to local organisation , volunteer and charity , and a range of issue have be raise , but I will focus my highlight on the Christmas - theme contribution . the right hon . member for Walsall and Bloxwich ( Valerie Vaz ) almost go into " the Twelve day of Christmas " with her mention of a partridge in a pear tree . she also mention many constituency and international issue of concern to she . the hon . member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) talk about drive home for Christmas . I be a subscriber to autopay for the Dartford tunnel because my parent live in Essex , so I will go through his constituency in a week or so as I drive home for Christmas . the hon . member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) talk about a local band that will not be contest the Christmas no . 1 — thankfully , because my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) would not be too happy about that . I be shock that my hon . friend the Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) do not mention the choir behind our right hon . friend ' s " love be enough " single — so I will get that plug in , and keep my job . there be a mention of what I will dub " Christmas light " — although not quite — by the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) , who talk about the serious issue of headlight glare . on a more serious point about Christmas food and drink , many member reflect on how many people will go without food this Christmas , and how important it be that we acknowledge the vital role of food bank at this special time . our work in this place will never be do until every food bank be abolish . my Christmas drink reference be a little more tangential . the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) mention her port , and I classify Christmas port as a drink for this festive period . finally , we talk about Christmas sport . we might be move into boxing day a bit here , but the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) talk about our be well together , and sport be a special way of bring people together at this time . the hon . member for Luton South and South Bedfordshire ( Rachel Hopkins ) , and for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) , talk about their respective football club ; I will be go to watch my local football club on Boxing day , and I hope the hon . member do the same . my hon . friend the Member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) talk about Formula 1 , not football , but that give I a really good link back to Tottenham Hotspur football club , who be the host of the only f1 go - karte track in the country . again , my new year ' s hope be that we win a trophy . in closing , Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish you a merry Christmas , as well as all the staff who have be so supportive of I as a new Member of this House . I thank all our colleague for the respectful debate that we have have today and throughout the year . it be an honour to wind up this end - of - term Christmas Adjournment debate for the official Opposition . we have have a wide and varied range of issue raise during this debate , as well as a fantastic array of fact from constituency across the United Kingdom . member in all part of this House have speak about the issue that really need tackle , and about the pride they feel in their constituency and their constituent . might I give new member on the government bench a top tip — a genuine , non - partisan top tip ? when they speak in these debate in future , they should know that this be the only time when they can speak on the Floor of the House to a Government Whip . they be able to tease that whip , claim what they want for their constituency from they , and sometimes tease out where they think the Government might be go wrong . I encourage member to tread gently , however , because if they do so — and I encourage they to ; I use to do it to my right hon . friend the Member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) — the meeting without coffee will start again in January . they should enjoy themselves in this afternoon ' s debate , though , and I know that they have . the Whip respond , the hon . member for Redcar ( Anna Turley ) , will be make a list . she will be check it twice . she will be look to see which of her member have be naughty or nice , and they never know , Santa Claus might be come to a town near they . I note that the hon . Lady be chair of the all - party parliamentary group for bingo at one stage of her career . I wonder whether in her wind - up remark , we will see a game of Labour bingo — " 14 year " , " fix the foundation " , " dire inheritance " . she should not be surprised if I shout " full house " at she while she be wind up , because I be afraid that we will not be take any of that break record from the hon . Lady . however , it be a lot less broken than the record that I encourage member on all side of this House to buy as we approach the Christmas no . 1 competition : " freeze this Christmas " , which be raise money for Age UK . I apologise to the Liberal Democrats for not endorse the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) . I will run through contribution make by member from all side of the Chamber . my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) mention that he have be elect Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , and open this debate in his typically charismatic and factual way . he wear two hat , also be chairman of the 1922 committee . I can guarantee that he will not be receive any communication from I over the next five year . he also say that my right hon . friend the Leader of the Opposition be a win candidate , and I look forward to she take over as Prime Minister in five year ' time . we should respect the fact that she be the fourth female leader of the conservative party — something that the govern party need to take note of . my hon . Friend also speak about his campaign on London transport . that be what you get with Sir Sadiq Khan . Labour want to bring in more directly elect Mayors by central diktat across the whole country . we on the conservative Benches will absolutely hold Sadiq Khan to account for the dire service that he offer his constituent in London . finally , my hon . friend outline his absolute commitment to the proscription of the irgc — an issue that he have champion on both side of this House . I know that he will keep push for that , and he be absolutely right to do so as he stand up for the great nation of Israel . the right hon . member for Walsall and Bloxwich ( Valerie Vaz ) mention the really important issue of accessibility for all funding for railway station . all member from across this House have over the last five year bring up case of constituent . I have many time bring up my constituent and the funding for Hedge End and Swanwick ; feasibility study money be allocate by the last Government . I ask the Minister on duty to request that the Department for Transport come back to all member who be promise that money in the last Parliament — it be allocate by the last government — and outline where we be go with accessibility for all . the ministerial letter that I receive do not say when the next step would happen . I ask the Minister very politely , on behalf of my constituent , where we be on that project . my hon . friend the Member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) mention , in a heartfelt speech , all the volunteer across his constituency . he be absolutely right to pay tribute to the volunteer we all have in our constituency , particularly in the NHS and the armed force . they be a credit to our nation . they will be work across the United Kingdom this Christmas , and we all owe they a huge thank you . my hon . Friend mention the man ' s shed charity , which I know from personal experience have help many man with mental health issue . I do not think we talk enough about that topic . I pay tribute to the man ' s shed across the country for the thing that they build on behalf of community centre . we have some lovely flower bed in Hedge End village in my constituency that be build by such volunteer , and I pay tribute to they , too . the hon . member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) — this be test my pronunciation of place name across the UK — be a dedicated champion of his constituency . before we enter this place , we work together in another sector , namely the social housing and housing association sector in the UK . he be a first - rate brain on housing policy in this country , and I hope that he be use by the Government to unlock the social housing that be much need . the hon . Member mention the armed force parliamentary scheme . I declare an interest , in that I be a trustee of the scheme , and I encourage member from across the House to take part in it . it be fantastic . we obviously honour the work that our armed force do , and the scheme allow we to get close to they , and to really listen to what they have to say about what they go through on our behalf , day in and day out . as he do every time we have one of these end - of - term Adjournment debate , my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) raise really important issue in his constituency — particularly the direct train service to King ' s Cross , which he have be bring up consistently in this House since 2011 . I say to he : keep go . I do not find he boring , and I look forward to his bring up the issue in the next such debate , probably in the summer . I look forward to respond on that occasion , too . the hon . member for Luton South and South Bedfordshire ( Rachel Hopkins ) mention animal in her constituency , and a dog be for life , not just for Christmas . I hope that she buy her dog Maisie a big bone this Christmas . I see that she have Maisie on her phone . my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) be a dedicated and doughty champion of his constituent . he and I be elect to this House in the same intake , and I do not mind say to he that his be a stand - out result for I on election night . he be a doughty and committed constituency MP , but his result surprise I — not because of any lack of ambition or lack of ability on his part , but just because win his seat and get through this election , which be very difficult for conservative , show the dedication and the work that he put in . my hon . friend mention a number of conservative initiative to fund programme in his constituency that be ringfence , and he want to drive growth . I fear that growth will be damage by some of the policy of this Government , but he be a tireless campaigner . I would like to know what be in Clara ' s Closet , a shop that he mention . he be also right to pay tribute to Ian Hayfield , the chair of the town ' s bid , who pass away a couple of day ago , and member across this House send our condolence to his family . the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) champion McClaren , and outline the local investment that such business , particularly f1 business , bring to his constituency , and he be absolutely right to do that . the hon . member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) make a couple of pun about Christmas lyric . I recommend that he stick to the day job of stand up for his constituent and focus on solve issue . however , he bring some fun to this debate ; that be entirely what such debate be mean for , and I hope that he be successful in lobby Ministers for investment . my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) always come to this House — well , he be here most of the time . he say that we all need to think of other at this time , and have a message of hope at Christmas . whenever he stand up in this House , he offer we hope and show we how we should be do our job . I wish he and his family a happy Christmas . the hon . member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) mention volunteer and special educational need and disability child . when I be sit here heckle the Labour party , she have often bring up that issue for her constituent , in her short time here . I know that she will continue to do so in her way , and I will work with she to make sure we improve on those issue . may I take this opportunity to thank all of House staff for their unfailing help to all member , particularly new member ? a record number of new Members come into the House . I would particularly like to mention — other member of staff should not take it personally — Godfrey , Daphne and Dawn in the Tea Room , who make my lunch and serve I tea very well . I have a lovely cup of tea after be in here , and I will have one after this debate . I particularly thank the Doorkeepers for put I right when I have get lose , and put up with my humour . I thank all staff , and I wish they a very merry Christmas . I wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , the other Madam Deputy Speakers and Mr Speaker a particularly good Christmas , and a rest . I also thank my team , who help I and keep I on the straight and narrow : Steph , Emma , Dan and Charlie . this debate show that this really be a place of worthy ideal . it be a place for decency , and a place where we share a common bond : the privilege of represent our constituency , place we care about , and our constituent , the fantastic people who make up this country . I wish my constituent in Hamble Valley a great Christmas . to all member right across this House , I say : I look forward to see all of they back in the House in 2025 , and I hope everybody have a very good rest . let I begin by pay tribute to the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) and thank he and all the member of the Backbench Business Committee for all the work they do in bring so many important issue to the notice of this House . I thank he again for his contribution today , although I slightly disagree with he and other on the Transport for London issue . many of we outside London dearly wish for a transport system that be so well - fund and efficient . I think he be channel Ebenezer Scrooge a little bit in complain about capped fare , but I take his comment in the spirit in which they be intend . I also thank he for raise the issue of the hostage take on 7 October . our heart break for they and their family , and we desperately hope for they to be return . we hope for peace and a ceasefire , and we thank he for bring this issue to the House . I also thank he for his important tribute to Holocaust Memorial Day ; we all agree on its importance . I wish a very happy Christmas to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , the other Deputy Speakers and Mr Speaker , as well as your fantastic team , the Clerks , the Doorkeepers , the Library staff , the security , the catering team , the police , the guide , the visitor support , the cleaner , Hansard and the many thousand of people who make this place and the other place run . we should never forget what a privilege it be to be here , and how well we be serve by the entire parliamentary team . we also should never forget how precious our democracy be as we stand here in the mother of Parliaments . from the market square of Damascus to the trench of the Donbas , people be fight and die for democracy — for the right to self - determination , for the right to speak out , for freedom . we must never take this responsibility or this privilege for grant . while this may be the last speech in this Chamber for the year , it be my first speech in the Chamber for more than five year . I be very grateful to find that this old place have not change too much . I see one or two new face on the Benches , and I be delighted at how many of they be on the Labour Benches , and how many Labour member represent place that have never before have a Labour MP . the lovely Jennie the guide dog , who be normally here , be follow in the pawprint of Lucy and Sadie . and of course today we think particularly of the late , great Sir David Amess — we see the commemorative plaque — a phenomenal man who I really enjoy work with in set up the all - party group on endometriosis . he be much miss , and I know how much he love this debate every year . of course , I think also of my dear friend Jo Cox , who we still miss very dearly , and who should have be here with we , play her part in a Labour Government . I have never be prouder in my life than to have be return as the Member for Redcar in July . as a so - call retread , I have be deny a maiden speech , and as a Government Whip , I be unable to join in debate . I have swap voice in this place for influence , I hope , on behalf of my constituent within this Government . as it be Christmas , I hope the House will indulge I if I take a moment to thank my wonderful constituent across the Redcar and Cleveland constituency for put their faith in I once again . I thank my agent Sarah , my organiser Jack and my brilliant team for their hard work in those long month lead up to 4 July . I thank they and all constituency and parliamentary staff for the fantastic support they provide for we on our constituent ' behalf . since the election , I have be thrill to visit school across the constituency , include Huntcliff , Riverdale , Nunthorpe , Ormesby primary , Rye Hills , Lakes primary , Whale Hill and Redcar and Cleveland college . I talk to hundred of pupil to celebrate Parliament Week recently . it have also be my privilege to continue to support local charity , include Footprints in the Community , South Tees Research , Innovation and Education , the Imaginarium , Teesside hospice , the Royal British Legion , Grangetown Generations , the junction and many more . it have also be a privilege to have watch netball at Grangetown , football at Redcar Athletic , Redcar Town , Marske United and Normanby , swim with Eston swimming club and boxing at Redcar boxing club . I be think today of the home help care for our elderly , the steelworker at Lackenby , the small business on our high street and the nurse in James Cook , Foxrush House and Redcar hospital . I be remind every day what make our community great and what a great community I be lucky to live in . my hon . friend have be incredibly active on steel , in her constituency and in this place . she and I both know that the Government be engage in sensitive and difficult negotiation at this present time about the steel industry , but can she touch on her view and the Government ' s view about ensure that steel be not a sunset industry ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the hard work he be undertake . what a doughty champion he be for the people of East Cleveland , the community in which he be bear , and the steel industry . as he say , it be a vital industry to this country , not a sunset industry . it be vital to our defence , our sovereignty , job , our plan for build home , our infrastructure and to our be at the forefront of the global transition on steel . we be all work hard together on the Government Benches for electric arc furnace in Teesside , for the future of Scunthorpe and for Port Talbot , and this Christmas we think of steelworker around the country , who be do their utmost to maintain this phenomenal industry that be so vital to our national interest . we thank they . this have be a debate worthy of this place , and I believe this be the good democratic assembly in the world , capable of rise to greatness when the occasion demand . in particular our recent debate on assist dying be testament to our democracy and the quality and thoughtfulness of hon . and right hon . member from all part of the House . today ' s debate have be no less impressive , if a little more local and festive . I pay tribute to a few of the fantastic speech we have hear today . my right hon . friend the Member for Walsall and Bloxwich ( Valerie Vaz ) raise important issue , and I take to heart the pledge I make to she to bring these issue to Ministers . no one should be deny the chance , for well or bad , to watch their local football team because they can not access transport . we will certainly be take that matter up . I be proud of everything that this Government be do on cancer , with £ 1 . 5 billion be put into scanner and diagnosis . as someone who lose my grandad to bowel cancer , that be close to my heart . I will also take up my hon . friend ' s issue on free school and art and museum . I very much look forward to the year of reading , too , as a champion of literature . the hon . member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) pay fantastic tribute to charity and volunteer , and we all know how crucial they be to our society and our community , particularly at this time of year . we could not function without they . I be remind that my hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Jenny Riddell - Carpenter ) mention the Salvation Army . we know what a phenomenal job it do at this time of year , when so many be fall through the gap . its people be there to catch they , and thank goodness they be . I pay tribute to they and to all our voluntary and community group . I send all good wish to Edward and for his future . my hon . friend the Member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) have do fantastic work champion Hitachi . he be certainly not bore in his relentlessness in that work . we be delighted to secure that half a billion pound to support the worker , the supply chain , the job and the apprenticeship . we look forward next year to celebrate 200 year of the railway , and as someone who be go back via Darlington tonight , I look forward to celebrate the Stockton and Darlington railway next year . the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) raise really important issue on road safety that I have not really think of , but I value the opportunity to reflect on they — sorry for the pun . light and glare be fascinating , not boring . persistence be key . I look forward to he continue to work with Ministers on that . I be certainly happy to take that up with the Department for Transport . my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) talk about fantastic local project . I congratulate the Music Man Project on its King ' s award and wish it all the very good for the future . the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) raise a really important constituency case . we listen very carefully to that . he be absolutely right about the number of people who , like Patricia , have to wrestle and navigate the system for whole - person care . the Government be commit to deal with that . I look forward to work with he , not just on that particular case but perhaps in seek a debate and work on address that . the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) raise a really important issue . our thought be with all those affect by the storm and the closure of the port . we will continue to press the Secretary of State and the Government for Wales on that . it be a port of massive national significance , and I can imagine that the impact be really hard for small business , particularly at this time of year . we will take that up . I look forward to engage with she on that . my hon . friend the Member for Luton South and South Bedfordshire ( Rachel Hopkins ) be , again , a doughty champion for her patch . I spend many happy time in my childhood in Whipsnade Zoo , so I wish it all the very good , as I do Maisie , my hon . friend ' s rescue dog , and Luton Town FC . the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) be , again , a real powerhouse for his constituency . he pay tribute to some great sport and community group . I congratulate he on the new hospital , and we all look forward to celebrate the city of culture in Bradford next year . I come to my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) . we wish the Royals all the very good in their promotion . likewise , in term of the fine sport we have in this country , as mention by the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) , we congratulate McLaren on the brilliant work it do . as he say , Britain be at the forefront of high - tech manufacturing and engineering . we wish my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) — my home town — all the good in continue to campaign for spade in the ground on the low Thames crossing and on the Elizabeth line , which be both crucial project . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who be sadly not in his place , for his classic decency and kindness , not just in his tribute today , but in everything he have do , particularly for new member to welcome and support we all . the hon . member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) raise SEND , which have be raise a huge amount in the House — it have be raise with I in every surgery since I have be re - elected — so we know that it be a critical issue . as she say , family be battle the system , and we want to have a country where every child matter and get the support that they need . the issue of off - rolling be crucial . I thank she for raise those issue and look forward to work with she . the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) know that I greatly respect his lifelong work and commitment to tackle poverty and inequality . I be sure that he would agree that a Labour Government be infinitely more able to tackle poverty and reduce inequality than a Labour Opposition , and I know that he will support some of our work to tackle inequality and poverty in this country . I thank the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) for pay tribute to all those work with adult and child with disability this Christmas . I will be brief , because I be conscious of time , but I want to say thank you to the british people who in July choose change . they look around and see the NHS on its knee , our dentistry in crisis , our train stall and chaotic , raw sewage in our river , lake and sea , rough sleeping visibly scar our town and life , taxis at a 30 - year high and child poverty at dickensian level . after 14 year , they have have enough . they turn in their drove to a Labour Government once again to clear up the mess and rebuild the social and economic fabric of a fractured nation . now the hard yard of change have begin . we on the Government side of the House be so ambitious for change . we have the big legislative programme in a quarter of a century , with 38 bill in the King ' s Speech . the programme include : rail back in public hand to put passenger before profit ; a raise in the minimum wage and increase for teacher , nurse and public sector worker ; maternity leave from day one in a job ; more power for police to tackle antisocial behaviour ; a house building revolution ; the miner pension scheme ; £ 1 billion for bus , with local people back in charge of they ; home for veteran ; a child poverty taskforce ; a national wealth fund for a transition to the industry of the future ; breakfast club for schoolchildren ; action on spike and stalking ; bring back neighbourhood policing ; action on sewage ; and , in my own patch , the big single investment on Teesside in history , with carbon capture and storage bring job and usher in a new industrial renaissance on Teesside . this be an exhaustive Christmas list for Britain — only missing , as my right hon . friend the Member for Walsall and Bloxwich ( Valerie Vaz ) say , a partridge in a pear tree . Change be come , Madam Deputy Speaker . the people have cast out the old and usher in the new . the hon . Lady have plenty of time , but can I just say to she : one line , two line , full house . eye down . [ laughter . ] to quote Lord Tennyson , " the old order changeth , yield place to new " . in July , the people cast out the old and usher in the new , and we will not fail they . at this time , I know we all want to take a moment to reflect on our family , our community and , perhaps , our faith . we should never forget that Christmas be not always a time for celebration and joy ; for some , it be a time of great regret , sadness , grief and loneliness . for many , it be a time of mental stress and financial worry . we pray for peace and for an end to conflict and separation around the world . we think of our courageous armed force around the world , those save life in conflict zone , the NHS and so many other key worker , for whom Christmas day be just another day at work . to everyone alone , or serve abroad , or in pain this Christmas , please know you be not alone , and that you be love . that , surely , be the true meaning of Christmas . I be remind , as I finish , that one of England ' s great Christmas literary figure , Charles Dickens , begin his career here as a parliamentary reporter and sketch writer . so , like Tiny Tim , let I close by say , " God bless we , every one ! " I congratulate the Lord Commissioner of his Majesty ' s Treasury , the hon . member for Redcar ( Anna Turley ) , on finally get her voice hear in this Chamber . in addition to the three Front - Bench speaker , we have have 18 Back - Bench speaker , which demonstrate the importance of this type of debate , where member can raise whatever subject they choose . they have choose to talk about their constituency , their particular cause , their charity and their family . this be a very important aspect of our parliamentary work ; it demonstrate to the people out there that we represent how important they be to we . I would like to correct the record . in my early speech , I refer to my hon . friend the Member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) when I should have refer to my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) . I want to put that on the record straightaway . finally , I would like to wish everyone a very merry Christmas and a happy new year . although this be a time when Parliament go into recess , member of Parliament will not just be have a holiday ; they will be work hard on behalf of their constituent , and our constituent will value the work that we do . I get the opportunity to have the last word . many member have mention family , and I want to take this opportunity to say merry Christmas to our parliamentary family , make sure we remember our Doorkeepers , the Sergeant at arm , the Clerks , who keep I in order , and the catering and security people . Godfrey and Margaret get a mention , but I would also like to say — although I may not have be there today — a thank you to Kelly and Jackie in the hairdresser downstairs . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider matter to be raise before the forthcoming adjournment . MV Ruby : Safety Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) the MV Ruby be a sorry tale of bad decision making by Government and a selection of unaccountable , unelecte quango operate in silos without any application of common sense . it exemplify the loss of sovereignty of Parliament , which should be absolute under the 1689 Bill of Rights , which assert the right of Parliament and individual right base on John Locke ' s philosophy . the outcome be a shocking and avoidable double act of environmental terrorism , when around 300 tonne of ammonium nitrate — well know as agricultural fertiliser — be dump in the sea about 12 mile off the coast of my constituency . when I fill my drill or fertiliser spinner with fertiliser , I discharge the content of the double - skinned weatherproof plastic bag into the hopper and recycle the bag . in this case , the bag be dump into the sea with the ammonium nitrate still in they . they will not biodegrade , and will float to the surface after a storm , potentially become wrap around a ship ' s propeller and shaft , cause extensive damage — not forget the vast ecological damage to young fish , the seabed , and the inevitable algal bloom that will follow . to make matter bad , as the elect representative of the good people of Great Yarmouth , I be exclude from all communication and decision making lead up to the catastrophic dumping operation on 16 November 2024 . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) apart from the terrible outcome , the Government ' s account of event conflict entirely with the local account of event . the local claim that the Department for Transport - Secretary of State ' s representative drive the process and give instruction for the sit MP to be exclude from all communication , convince that it be a Cobra situation . when finally brief on 28 November by the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) at the Department ' s office , he state that the local have make a mountain out of a molehill , the operation be never Cobra and the decision to exclude the MP from briefing be a local one . somebody be clearly lie and the official briefing pack from the DFT suggest that this be the Government . the hon . Gentleman tell I in an email that he be too busy to see I to answer follow - up question and suggest that I pursue usual parliamentary process , so here we be . I be grateful to Mr Speaker for grant this debate , which seek to inform the House where the truth lie . the crux of the issue be the part play by the Health and Safety Executive and its employee , Dr Nathan Flood . MV Ruby dock in the outer harbour of Great Yarmouth , follow input from the Secretary of State ' s representative on 28 October 2024 , as a ship in distress carry 20 , 000 tonne of ammonium nitrate . Peel Ports be use to handle this material , which be commonly land at port , distribute by road , store on farm and use to grow our food . Peel Ports notify the requisite authority , include the HSE , which decline to inspect the ship ' s cargo . Peel Ports begin offload the bag of ammonium nitrate on to the sister ship , Zimrida . on 11 November , Peel Ports identify seawater in hold one and some stain on the low bag . Peel Ports notify the HSE , Dr Flood , and again request its attendance to inspect the bag and the material . HSE refuse to attend and inspect . Peel Ports send they photograph and video of the cargo in hold one . Peel Ports employ its own explosive expert , Dr Jim Warren and Dr Charles Owen , to attend and inspect the cargo . they report that they could wipe the staining off the bag , conclude that it be unlikely the bag be contaminate . Peel Ports again request HSE attendance , which be refuse . Peel Ports ' view be that it could safely unload the stained bag — the ship have previously carry a cargo of coal — on to the dock for analysis and disposal . HSE threaten sanction and enforcement action against Peel Ports if one bag be unload on to the dock . I understand that legal responsibility for the material pass from the Maritime and Coastguard Agency to HSE once unload . it be also interesting that Norfolk Fire and Rescue Service attend MV Ruby at this time , on either 12 or 13 November , and downgrade the situation . Dr Flood ' s attitude be report by many of the stakeholder to be aggressive , inappropriate and unprofessional , with the use of foul language and even bang his fist on the table and tell people , " this be go to flatten Great Yarmouth . " analogy to the Beirut explosion be wholly inappropriate and misleading , cause panic among both local and national Government , who have no experience of handle ammonium nitrate . it be incredible that he do that without either a site visit or proper physical analysis of the material before the dumping . be he too lazy to do what common sense suggest be the correct cause of action ? Dr Flood only attend the site and inspect a small number of remain split bag of material on Monday 18 November , after be instruct to attend by a Minister . I understand that he put on a new pair of rubber glove which he thrust into the ammonium nitrate and then throw the glove on to the table , claim they smell of diesel . other people report that they understandably smell of new rubber . this be also after the gross act of environmental terrorism . to carry out no inspection before dump be quite extraordinary . this kind of behaviour be not uncommon from the HSE , which be a law unto itself , clearly employ a policy of " do as I say , not as I do " . the question be , who regulate the regulator ? when we understand that the HSE be part of the Department for Work and Pensions , no further explanation be necessary or indeed possible . we now find that the Marine Management Organisation , the MCA , the Environment Agency , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the HSE all blame the dumping on the ship ' s captain . all other possible sensible option be block , but do this silence make they complicit in this catastrophe ? I conclude that it do . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on secure a debate on this topic , which have cause great concern to resident of our neighbouring constituency . in this case there appear to have be a total information vacuum for local people and representative , which have fuel fear and speculation . a number of my constituent have contact I ask simply , " what be go on ? " do the hon . Gentleman agree that in the event of such a situation in the future , it will be important for all relevant agency to provide far more clarity and transparency for resident and their elect representative ? I could not agree more . good government must be transparent government . I hope that the Minister have his pencil ready , because I have 18 urgent question for which I believe the House need answer . no . 1 : why do the Minister tell I on Thursday 28th November that this be a local issue ? no . 2 : why do the local official think that this be a Cobra situation when the Minister say categorically that it be not ? no . 3 : why do the Minister suggest that local official have make a " mountain out of a molehill " ? the local say it be all drive by the Department for Transport and the Secretary of State ' s Representative for Maritime Salvage and Intervention . who be lie ? no . 4 : who give the instruction that the local MP be not to be brief except by the Department for Transport ? be that because I be a Reform MP , or because I have experience of ammonium nitrate from farming ? what be the role and report of Andy Gregory , Stephen Benzies and Stephan Hennig ? no . 5 : be the right hon . member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) involve in the decision making ? no . 6 : be the resignation of the right hon . member for Sheffield Heeley on Friday 29 November in any way link to the unjustifiable outcome involve the dumping of approximately 300 tonne of potentially contaminate ammonium nitrate with bag ? be it a coincidence that it happen less than 24 hour after my briefing by the Department for Transport ? no . 7 : why be the load describe as " potentially contaminate ? " be it physically test before the dumping ? be there a certificate to prove that ? no . 8 : why be the polypropylene double - skin waterproof bag dump with the ammonium nitrate ? when use in farming , such bag be empty and recycle . no . 9 : do anyone consider that polypropylene bag float to the surface and damage or destroy a ship ' s propeller and propeller shaft , apart from this be an act of environmental vandalism ? no . 10 : why be the view of those at Peel Ports — expert at handle ammonium nitrate — not act upon ? they claim that the double - skin waterproof bag at the bottom be stain but dry . they suggest unload the " dump " material on to the dock for analysis and disposal . be it true that it become the responsibility of the HSE once on land ? picture that be obtain back up Peel Ports ' opinion . no . 11 : why do the HSE throw its weight around and threaten Peel Ports with prosecution / enforcement if one bag be unload on the dock ? no . 12 : why be local fisherman , local fish market and dutch fishing vessel not inform of the decision to dump offshore in my constituency ? no . 13 : how close do Great Yarmouth come to evacuation ? why be that information withhold from the elect representative of Great Yarmouth ? who know what , and when ? no . 14 : be the balance of the cargo safely unload by Peel Ports ? no . 15 : be it fair to say that the owner and operator of MV Ruby be force into the decision to dump ammonium nitrate in bag at sea ? no . 16 : who sign off on this gross act of environmental terrorism without a test certificate ? how can this have happen ? no . 17 : why do both the harbourmaster and Peel Ports agree that this matter be not handle well , and that there be the wrong outcome ? no . 18 : do this House agree that the Government be right to exclude an elect Member of Parliament by diktat , thereby undermine Parliament and show disrespect for the good people of Great Yarmouth ? as G . k . Chesterton observe , " a society be in decay , final or transitional , when common sense really become uncommon " . this sorry episode lack any common sense and result in bad decision by unelected , unaccountable quango act in silos . we now need an official parliamentary inquiry , which I strongly request , have research the matter in great depth . it must not happen again , and the appropriate head must roll . on that note , Madam Deputy Speaker , may I wish you , all the parliamentary staff and all my fellow mps a very happy Christmas ? well , Madam Deputy Speaker , it be the season of good will . first and foremost , I want to say that I be proud of this nation . I think I be prouder of this nation than the hon . Gentleman be . the United Kingdom have a proud seafaring heritage , and we be the home of the International Maritime Organisation . we uphold the rule of law in this country , and we treat seafarer with respect and dignity . we fulfil our legal obligation , and we proud to be pioneer in the maritime industry . these principle inform how we handle this situation . the MV Ruby leave Great Yarmouth on 1 December with no cargo onboard and be now at the Port of Tyne , where she be undergo repair . the ship leave Great Yarmouth with uncontaminated cargo on 16 December for onward voyage to the Ruby ' s original intend destination . throughout this situation , my Department and other authority exercise their duty for the safety of the UK and its population , and for that of the ship and her crew . I stand by all the decision and action that we take , and I note that everything have be resolve successfully . we be always confident that that would be the case . I will briefly set out the background . the MV Ruby be a maltese - flagged vessel that be damage during a storm on 23 August 2024 , not long after leave port in northern Russia . the vessel enter UK water on 24 September 2024 under international legal provision that allow for the right of innocent passage through territorial water . she go to anchor in order to refuel , but at anchor she pose a number of potential risk to UK interest — namely , the safety of navigation for other vessel . we be also worried about the safety of the crew , their welfare and the safety of the ship . there be no sanction issue in relation to the ship , her crew or her cargo , and she be insure by Lloyd ' s of London , which be internationally regard as have the high standard for its client and strong requirement for the insurance company that conduct business there . the vessel be class certify by Det Norske Veritas , which be one of the 12 world - renowne classification society within the International Association of Classification Societies . that demonstrate to we that the vessel be operate well within the recommend industry guideline . before enter the Port of Great Yarmouth , the Ruby have be at anchor for a month . the ship be damage , and the crew be struggle to get basic supply . at this point , medium reporting focus on the perceive russian connection of the Ruby , as her origin port be in Russia . this make potential supplier fear russian exposure and reputational damage , which far impact the quality of life on board . beyond this humanitarian aspect , the extent of the damage to the hull be unknown , and the practical and environmental consequence of the vessel sink in UK water , with all her cargo and fuel on board , would have be unthinkable . give all this , and where safety requirement be meet , there be no reason to deny access to port . the Secretary of State ' s representative for maritime salvage and intervention , SOSREP , support the ship ' s management company in convene conversation with UK port to identify an appropriate port for the offloading of this cargo type and a yard where she could then be repair . the ship ' s management company make a commercial decision to enter a UK port for repair . this be because the condition in the bay of Biscay , which the vessel would have have to traverse , can be extremely rough at this time of year . the crew of 19 on board have already suffer through the original storm and subsequent week on board a damage ship . offer her refuge in port help to manage all these risk , and at that point , there be no indication of concern about her cargo . ammonium nitrate , for a bit of background , be a compound typically use in fertiliser that the UK regularly import . in 2023 , over 200 , 000 tonne of ammonium nitrate be handle at UK port , and the port of Great Yarmouth be one of the many port experience in handle this type of cargo . once at port , the cargo be safely offload for several day before any potential contamination be identify . the Health and Safety Executive be alert to the potential contamination on Monday 11 November , as the port identify evidence of seawater and hydrocarbon — fuel oil — on the outside of the bag . when it be identify that seawater and hydrocarbon be present on the outside of some of the remain bag , all movement of cargo in the affected hold be stop , and the relevant authority be notify . HSE undertake a risk assessment , and its finding be action by the port and the ship operator . the port ' s harbourmaster make the decision to issue a direction under the Harbours , Docks and Piers Clauses Act 1847 , follow the guidance provide by the HSE at a cross - agency meeting , and classify the vessel as a dangerous ship . sosrep be engage and work with the ship , the port , the MCA and the HSE to ensure that the ship and the crew be safely remove from port . the ship be remove from port on Saturday 16 November , and the affected cargo be discharge at a pre - identify location at sea . the master of the ship take the view that , in the light of deteriorate condition at sea and the unacceptable risk to the crew of the potentially contaminate material remain on board as the sea become rougher due to the incoming weather front , disposal should commence that evening . the cargo believe to be contaminate represent under 2 % of the total volume be transport . discharge the potentially contaminate cargo at sea , about 300 metric tonne , be not an exercise undertake lightly . as would be expect , there be careful and thorough examination of all the alternative option . a full assessment of the environmental implication and safety risk be also undertake . the work be oversee by environmental expert and the relevant regulator . the East of England environment group be convene for the purpose of this incident and be comprise of expert from : the Food Standards Agency ; the Joint Nature Conservation Committee ; the local authority ; the Marine Management Organisation ; the Centre for Environment , Fisheries and Aquaculture Science ; Natural England ; the Environment Agency ; and the inshore fishery and conservation authority . the location choose for disposal be identify as the least sensitive in term of habitat , flora , fauna and fishery . the site be an exist aggregate extraction area , involve mechanical activity on the seabed . we have be assure by scientific expert from both the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the East of England environment group that ammonium nitrate be not a persistent chemical and , with sufficient dilution , will dissipate without leave a trace . as would be expect , DEFRA be now go through the standard procedure of notify the relevant international authority of the discharge event , as the british Government treat our duty to the natural environment with the high seriousness . where safety requirement be meet , there be no basis for the UK Government to refuse entry into port in those circumstance . after the potentially contaminate cargo have be discharge , the port and ship operator follow the usual process to enable the MV Ruby to return to Great Yarmouth with advice from the MCA , HSE and environmental regulator . allow the ship to return ensure crew welfare and enable the normal transfer of its remain cargo . I must emphasise that there be no evidence that any of the remain cargo be potentially contaminate , and this be bear out by event . no further contamination be find . if there be no potential contamination and if all the process be fully follow , as the Minister be indicate , then presumably the Government will have no problem ensure that all that documentation be make available and public , in a transparent and open way , so that we can have no doubt about that , and any lesson that need to be learn , will be learn . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention and wish he a happy Christmas as well ; we share the same dry cleaner , Mr George , who regularly ask after the hon . Gentleman . I say to Reform Members that the way this matter be be raise be a playbook : assertion , which be often outlandish or simply wrong , be make that be design to appeal to malcontent ; victimisation come in that playbook , because they habitually cast themselves as the victim of dark force , conspiracy and cover - up , always want to know where and when , and to have transparency ; they expect other to accept the premise of their question , but then belittle the official and worker who have work extraordinarily hard , often in difficult circumstance in our sea . by belittle those official and worker , Reform Members be try to make people believe those official be wrong and they be right . I think there should be little bit more dignity in the approach take by Reform Members in this matter . I have have correspondence with official at Norfolk county council and Great Yarmouth borough council , as well as the hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) and the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) , who be no long in his place . I would like to offer my personal gratitude and thank to the official at the Health and Safety Executive , the Maritime and Coastguard Agency and Peel Ports in Great Yarmouth for their co - operation and diligent work throughout the period . I also thank the captain and the crew of the ship for their co - operation during this episode . I be pleased that , by follow the expert advice , this episode have conclude safely and successfully . our port , and the man and woman who work in they , be invaluable asset to our nation , but we can all be guilty of fail to fully recognise the vital role they play in the life of our island nation . I would like this debate to record the respect and gratitude this House have for they and their work . our Christmases will be a lot merry thank to they all . Merry Christmas to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , the staff and the House , and a blessed new year as well . question put and agree to . House adjourn .