Speaker ' s Statement before we begin today ' s proceeding , I know that the House will wish to join I in acknowledge that today mark the third anniversary of the beginning of Russia ' s attack on Ukraine . this House have always stand with the people of Ukraine in the face of russian aggression , as they stand up for their ideal , which underpin a peaceful , stable and democratic world . our thought today be with the people of Ukraine , as well as with our colleague in the Ukrainian Parliament . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act : Arbitration Act 2025 Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 . oral Answers to Questions Home Department the Secretary of State be ask — Consumer Protection : Fraud what step her Department be take to help protect consumer against fraud . fraud devastate live , and this Government be determined to meet that challenge head - on , include through the new expand fraud strategy that we promise in our manifesto . we be work with law enforcement and industry to well protect the public , and we be demand that the tech company go far and fast to protect consumer at risk of fraud on their platform . online scam be a cause of particular concern in Hendon . a number of my constituent have be target , and one lose £ 40 , 000 to an online scam . many of the scam originate overseas . what discussion have the Minister have with the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology about tackle online scam and work with other country to crack down on scam originate abroad ? my hon . friend raise an important issue , not least that the vast majority of scam be perpetrate by criminal gang base overseas . we need the support of overseas government and agency and the co - operation of tech firm to prevent fraud from take place on their platform . my noble Friend Lord Hanson will be meet tech firm next month to confirm what action be be take . work across Government , include with partner in DSIT and other , we will not hesitate to take further action where necessary . it be disappointing to see in the January figure that fraud have rise again after it have be come down , but I commend the Government for proceed with the Payment Services ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 to slow down payment where there be a reasonable suspicion of fraudulent activity . what effect do the Minister believe that change will make ? the right hon . Gentleman make an important point . he be right that the late statistic show that there be 3 . 9 million incident in the year end September 2024 — that be one in 15 people become a victim — which demonstrate the urgent need for action . the Government be take action : the Home Secretary , the Chancellor and the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology recently write to tech and telecom company , urge they to go fast and far on fraud , and we expect they to do so . Indefinite leave to remain what assessment she have make of the potential merit of extend the qualifying period for indefinite leave to remain . settlement in the UK be a privilege , not an automatic entitlement . there be already a range of period of time that people be require to spend in the UK before they qualify for settlement . the number of people grant settlement each year will reflect the number of migrant come to the UK in early year . this Government be determined to bring control to the immigration system and to bring net migration down , and we keep all our policy under review . there be clearly a cost to do nothing about the current indefinite leave to remain policy , and a recent Centre for Policy Studies report estimate the net lifetime cost as £ 234 billion for those expect to be grant ILR over the next five year . what be the Minister ' s assessment of that cost ? I gently say to the hon . member that the number of settlement grant grow by almost a third in the final year that his party be in government , compare with 2023 . we will take absolutely no lesson from the Tory party and a shadow Home Secretary who completely lose control of our border , allow net migration to quadruple to a record high of nearly 1 million while the number of dangerous boat crossing soar . only refugee whose case prove that they would be at harm if they return home be give indefinite leave to remain in this country — 30 , 000 people last year . they will not leave the United Kingdom to return to the bomb and the dictator , but without a route to citizenship they will find it hard to get a job to support their family , get a mortgage , or have a say in their local community . will the Minister meet I , and other mp who be concerned about the new guidance on naturalisation , to talk about how we can properly support integration in the UK ? my hon . friend will know that , for many generation , refugee who have arrive for resettlement in the UK have be able to apply for british citizenship if they meet the condition , and that continue to be the case . the UK must always do its bit to support those who be flee persecution , but we be also clear that we must do all we can to prevent people from make dangerous boat crossing and risk their life in the arm of criminal gang . I call the shadow Minister . as we have hear , accord to the Centre for Policy Studies , over 800 , 000 migrant from the past five year could soon claim indefinite leave to remain . in NHS care , benefit , social housing and more , that will cost £ 234 billion — nearly six year of defence spending , or almost all income tax receipt for a year . will the Minister commit to extend the qualifying period for ILR , or will she accept that the consequence of her policy be a liability for the public of hundred of billion of pound ? I be still quite flabbergast by the question that the Conservatives ask in the House . their party see net migration more than quadruple to record level . the shadow Minister will know that the Prime Minister have also pledge a White Paper on reduce net migration — that be at the end of last year — and work be under way to consider a range of proposal , include how well to support the integration and employability of refugee . Antisocial Behaviour what recent progress her Department have make on tackle antisocial behaviour . what recent progress her Department have make on tackle antisocial behaviour . may I support you , Mr Speaker , in your word about the people of Ukraine on the third anniversary of the invasion , include those who be here in the UK through the Homes for Ukraine scheme ? too many community be blight by antisocial behaviour , which have increase over the past 10 year while neighbourhood policing be heavily cut . that be why this Government ' s plan for change mean put neighbourhood police back on the beat in our town centre and community , and strong power in our crime and police Bill — to be introduce tomorrow — to tackle off - road bike , repeat offender and shop theft . Mark Porter be a community leader who run Kidsgrove Ladsanddads . around 400 young people play football at Birchenwood field every weekend , yet the football pitch be constantly damage by off - road bike . the same happen at Burslem golf club and across estate such as Mill Hill in Tunstall . what step will be take to tackle the impact of off - road park on community in Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove ? my hon . friend make an important point . some off - road bike be a total nightmare and can drive community up the wall with harassment and intimidation . that be why we be strengthen power . at the moment , the police must provide repeat warning before they can take action to seize such bike ; we think that they should be able to seize those antisocial bike straightaway . antisocial behaviour come in a variety of form . Norfolk police have recently make it a priority to address safety concern about e - bike and e - scooter . in just one day , they reportedly seize 12 illegally modify bike in Norwich . I welcome that crackdown , but speed e - bike and e - scooter be a real menace in our city centre . will the Home Secretary expand on the measure that we will take to tackle speeding and illegally modify e - bike and e - scooter ? my hon . friend be right to raise this issue , which cause havoc and can be really threaten for people in the local community . that be why we will strengthen the law by support the police to take strong action on off - road bike , and by introduce respect order so that we can ban repeat offender from town centre and tackle the antisocial behaviour that have blight community for far too long . antisocial behaviour be a problem not just in our town centre , but in our park . that be why my constituent be extremely concerned about plan to axe the specialist royal park police unit and subsume it into community support team , give the £ 450 million shortfall face the Met police . this mean that Bushy Park in my constituency will undoubtedly get less police coverage . what assurance can the Home Secretary give my constituent that they will not see few police officer in our community and our park ? this Government be clear : we need to get more police back on the beat . the number of police community support officer have halve over the past 10 to 15 year , and there have be a big drop in the number of neighbourhood police officer on the beat . that be why next year we be increase neighbourhood policing , with an additional £ 200 million of investment . that be part of up to £ 1 . 1 billion of additional funding next year for our police force across the country . the Home Secretary will be aware that council up and down the country have real problem with nuisance tenant create mayhem , commit crime and make resident ' live a misery , so do she agree that there should be a " one strike and out " policy for these tenant , and that if they keep create problem , they should be out and the local authority should have no duty to rehouse they ? we need strong action against antisocial behaviour , whether that involve havoc in town centre , off - road bike or nuisance neighbour make the community ' s live a misery . that be why the Government be increase neighbourhood police and give the police and local community much strong power to crack down on antisocial behaviour so that we can take back our community from the vandal , the thief and those who make other ' live a misery . like my hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Alice Macdonald ) , I find that constituent consistently mention the antisocial use of e - scooter and e - bike , and I certainly welcome on my constituent ' behalf the measure in the crime and police Bill about seize such vehicle . will Ministers talk to the Department for Transport about update legislation , particularly in relation to e - scooter ? their usage have explode but legislation have not keep pace . we be work with the Department for Transport . we need to keep community safe , ensure that proper safety standard be meet and tackle antisocial behaviour . I have also see the work of Staffordshire police , who be use drone to follow rider of dangerous off - road bike and take action . do the Home Secretary agree that it would be easy for the police to tackle antisocial behaviour if they have more support for special constable ? the number of special constable have fall in recent year , particularly since the pandemic . will she agree to consider amend the Employment Rights Act 1996 to bring special constable within section 50 ? I agree that special constable can play an important role . their number have drop by around two third over the past 14 year . I think that be damaging , and we want to increase their number . we be work with police force on how good to achieve that so that they can play their part , both on the street in neighbourhood team and in support other specialist aspect of the police ' s work . Greater Manchester have one of the high crime rate in the country , with many suffering as a result of antisocial behaviour , but this weekend we see police officer knock on the door of a grandmother because she dare to criticise a Labour councillor for his role in the pensioner - hate WhatsApp scandal . do the Home Secretary agree that be a waste of police time ? the Government have be clear that the focus of policing must be on the neighbourhood crime that blight our community . that be why we be increase neighbourhood policing , because the conservative party slash the number of neighbourhood police on the beat and we lose thousand of neighbourhood police in our community . that be why we be also focus the police on serious violence . the legislation to be introduce tomorrow will focus on tackle serious violence and deal with the most serious crime in our community — something that the Conservative party , which preside over a 61 % increase in shoplifting alone during its last two year in power , fail time and again to do . domestic Abuse : Gloucester what step her Department be take to help tackle domestic abuse in Gloucester . the Government be determined to tackle the scourge of domestic abuse wherever it be find . that be why we have already announce bold measure to transform the police response to these devastating crime . last week , I be proud to say , we embed the first domestic abuse specialist in 999 control room in five police force , under Raneem ' s law , and we plan to equip force everywhere with the tool they need to crack down on perpetrator and keep victim safe , include in Gloucester . I thank my hon . friend for her answer , and for all the work she have do over many year to champion victim and survivor of domestic abuse . as she will know , one of the big challenge face survivor and victim in Gloucester be the financial implication of flee that abuse . will she agree to meet I to discuss my 10 - minute rule Bill , the Domestic Abuse ( Safe Leave ) Bill , which would introduce safe leave for victim of domestic abuse and violence ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his kind word , and for his commitment to support victim . he will be aware that his private Member ' s Bill be the responsibility of the Department for Business and Trade , but I would of course be willing to meet he , and the Department , to discuss it . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . the recent National Audit Office report on the Government ' s response to violence against woman and girl , which include domestic abuse , make a number of recommendation . my Committee will be consider that issue , but will the Minister comment on what the Government ' s response will be to those recommendation , and say how she will ensure that domestic abuse be tackle across the country , include in Gloucester ? I be wait for that reference to Gloucester . as the right hon . Lady will know , the NAO report be largely base on the previous Government ' s period in office , and although it make clear recommendation , it would be premature of I to comment . however , the strategy to combat violence against woman and girl that will be publish by this Government in early summer will undoubtedly be look to the NAO recommendation . Sexual Exploitation and traffic what step her Department be take to help reduce demand for sex trafficking and sexual exploitation . the trafficking of woman and girl for sexual exploitation be a horrific crime , and the Government work closely with law enforcement to tackle the driver of that offending and target prolific perpetrator . that include through operational intensification initiative aim at tackle modern slavery threat . the Online Safety Act 2023 set out priority offence , include sexual exploitation and human trafficking offence , and start from 17 March , in - scope company must adopt system and process to address those offence . I thank the Minister for her response . in 2023 the then Home Affairs Committee recommend that pimp website be outlaw , but the previous Government take no action , allow sex trafficker to continue legally to exploit their victim online . I have since be make aware of further online exploitation , with website allow man to rate and review the woman for whom they be pay for sex , include admission of trafficking , under - age sex , and rape . will the Minister share what action this Government will take to protect victim of online sexual exploitation ? like my hon . friend , I be horrified that such practice should be allow to continue . online platform have a duty to assess the risk of illegal harm on their service , with a deadline of 16 March 2025 , subject to the code of practice complete the parliamentary process on 17 March . online platform will need to take safety measure set out in the code of practice , and to use other effective measure to protect user from illegal content such as that of which my hon . friend speak . if they fail to do so , they will face significant penalty . as she might imagine , I will be keep a close eye on that . what measure be the Minister take to address the record backlog of court case in the UK , which , as the chief inspector of the Crown Prosecution Service and Serious Fraud Office have warn , be on target to hit 100 , 000 ? in particular , can she comment on the call for change to be make to the way that court case be prioritise , which at present be result in victim of serious crime , include sexual trafficking , exploitation and rape , face year - long wait for trial , while less serious crime be prioritise ahead in the queue ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and I recognise the parlous state of the criminal justice system that we inherit , which have lead to some victim of rape and sexual violence wait for year on end . I note that the shadow Justice Secretary have only just notice that fail , now that he have the word " shadow " in front of his job title , and even though his government preside over that fail for a decade . part of the strategy to tackle violence against woman and girl , which I work on in concert with the Ministry of Justice , be about ensure that that issue be sort . I call the shadow Minister . I have to get through the question . Fiona from Bradford be fail numerous time by social service and local police after suffer horrific sexual abuse at the hand of gang of man while in a care home . Bradford ' s local authority have shamefully seek to block a local inquiry into the issue . in Fiona ' s own word : " the Government can ' t just leave it down to the local council to decide if they ' re go to be investigate , they ' re go to have to enforce it . " will the Home Secretary reconsider a statutory inquiry into groom gang ? if not , how will she guarantee that case like that can never be allow to happen again ? I be work with victim across the country to ensure , as have already be announce , that cold case like the one refer to by the shadow Minister can be reopen . the Government have invest an extra £ 2 . 5 million in the taskforce to ensure that can happen . we will be work with local authority across the country to ensure that the failure of the past be not repeat . drug dealing : Rural Communities what step she be take to help tackle drug deal in rural community . through the county line programme , we continue to target exploitative drug dealing gang wherever they operate , include in rural area , as part of our effort to dismantle the organise crime group behind that trade . since the Government take office , the county line programme have close over 400 drug line run across community in England and Wales . in our manifesto , we commit to go after the gang that lure young people into violence and crime . at the weekend , we announce that we will create a new offence of child criminal exploitation in the forthcoming crime and police Bill . it be well know that rural and seaside area be target by drug gang . Escapeline have assess that up to 70 , 000 young people , some as young as six , be be traffic . in my constituency , I have recently deal with young girl who have be provide with drug by trusted adult in dance school , where no action be take , because those adult be not see as require a Disclosure and Barring Service check , and with vulnerable adult who be be control in their home , where there have be no response at all from local police , because my small town be simply not see to be a priority and resource be direct elsewhere . how can I offer reassurance to my community that their small town be not be forget ? the hon . Lady make an important point . specific resource be available to police force to be surge into tackle county line . I know the police force in Dorset , in her area , have apply for that funding in the past , so I encourage she to have a conversation with the police and crime commissioner and chief constable about what more can be do to get that resource into the town she talk about . Police funding : Gloucestershire if she will increase funding for gloucestershire constabulary . the 2025 - 26 final police funding settlement provide funding of up to £ 19 . 6 billion for the police system in England and Wales , which be an increase of £ 1 . 1 billion when compare to 2024 - 25 . of that , Gloucestershire will receive up to £ 168 . 2 million , an increase of over £ 10 million , include £ 1 . 5 million to kickstart the recruitment of additional neighbourhood police officer and police community support officer in Gloucestershire . my constituency straddle two large county , Gloucestershire and Wiltshire , which both languish near the bottom of the league table of funding for constabulary . despite the modest rise in funding , those constabulary will have to cut policing number , so can the Minister assure my constituent that crime will be address on a timely basis ? More money be go into policing , particularly around the neighbourhood policing guarantee that this Government promise in their manifesto . we be provide £ 200 million to kickstart the recruitment of police officer , pcso and special in all our community . I take the hon . Lady ' s point about the funding formula and how that affect the two force that straddle her constituency . we be go into a spending review and I know official have meet representative from Gloucestershire constabulary to talk about the financial situation . we will keep that under review as we work towards the spending review . like Gloucestershire police , Essex police be receive additional funding this year ; in fact , we be get increase funding of £ 27 million . despite that , the front desk at Harlow police station be under threat . do the Minister agree that give the additional funding , police service in Harlow in Essex should be increase not decrease , and that any proposal not to do so be down to historical underfunding by the previous Government ? I be very pleased that Essex have get that increase in funding . I gently point out that the decision around how those resource be use be for the police and crime commissioner and the chief constable , but , overall , more than £ 1 . 1 billion be go into policing , over and above what the previous Government put in in 2024 - 25 . counter - terrorism what step her Department be take with international partner to counter the threat of terrorism . this weekend ' s horrific attack in Mulhouse in France have again remind we of the threat from terrorist and from islamist extremism , which can strike at any time . I have speak to the french Interior Minister this morning to offer our support and any assistance need . we will continue to work with our european colleague and the five Eyes partnership to tackle these threat , both internationally and here in the UK . sadly , the misappropriation of religious belief to justify act of terror and intimidation have become familiar across the world . we have see the mind of too many of our young people corrupt by online pedlar of hate , so what action be this Government take to tackle radicalisation at a time when xenophobia and intolerance be be promote for political purpose ? my hon . friend be right that terrorist do not speak for any faith . Interfaith relationship be an important part of develop strong community , but we be clear that in the Government and across society we have to do more to prevent radicalisation and particularly the grow number of young people from be draw into terrorism — both islamist extremism and extreme right - wing threat . that be why tomorrow we will introduce new youth diversion order through our crime and police Bill to give the police new power to divert young people away from terrorism . although I welcome what the Home Secretary be say about the need to divert and prevent home - grow terrorism , do she accept that a pattern of terrorism be emerge in continental Europe of undocumented migrant go into country and commit terrorist act ? do she agree that it be very difficult for the authority to prevent anything of that sort if undocumented illegal migrant be release into society when they arrive on these shore ? we be clear that we need to tackle extremist and terror threat wheresoever they be find , which include make sure that we have strengthen border security . that be why we have put forward new counter - terror style power around people smuggle and traffic to strengthen our border security , and it be also why we need to tackle particularly the radicalisation we see online . that be where we also see young people be draw into extremist and terror threat . Wheresoever that be find , we need strong action in place to keep our country safe . I call the shadow Minister . in fight terrorism , the Security Minister have rightly say that Islamism be the foremost threat we face . its danger lie not just in physical violence , but in the intolerance it embody and the intimidation it rely on . will the Home Secretary give a clear answer to this question ? should it be a criminal offence to desecrate a Koran or any holy text : yes or no ? we be clear that the primary domestic terrorist threat come from islamist terrorism , which comprise three quarter of the MI5 caseload and 64 % of those in custody for terrorism - connect offence . that be follow by extreme right - wing terrorism , which comprise around a quarter of the MI5 caseload . we already have a framework of legislation in place to ensure that we can deal with the dangerous threat to our cohesion and our community that we face . Retail Crime what step she be take to help reduce shop theft . what assessment she have make of trend in the level of retail crime . in the last year of the previous Government , shop theft reach a record high , and violence and abuse towards retail worker increase to an unacceptable level . this government will not tolerate these crime . as a central part of our safe street mission , we be committed to introduce a new stand - alone offence of assault a retail worker and end the effective immunity for shop theft of good under £ 200 , because there be no such thing as low - level crime . I be recently contact by a constituent who work in a small high street supermarket . he and his colleague have frequently be violently attack by shoplifter , so what else can the Minister say about what the Government can do to protect shop worker ? it be appal to hear about case such as the one in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I be very strike — like everyone else across the House , I think — by how commonplace violence and abuse against shop worker have sadly become . the Government have make it absolutely clear that everybody who go to work have the right to feel safe on the job , and we will not tolerate the criminality that we have see in recent time . that be why , follow year of campaign from the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers and the Co - op , this Labour Government will finally deliver a stand - alone criminal offence of assault a retail worker . shop worker in Doncaster have tell I time and again that they be feed up with the amount of shoplifting go on and the antisocial behaviour that go with it , which include threat and sometimes physical violence . this kind of crime need to be crush . I be pleased to hear that a stand - alone offence of assault a retail worker be to be include in the legislation be introduce this week , but will the Minister confirm that the police will have the clout to enforce the law and make sure we eliminate this kind of activity ? my hon . friend make an important point . our commitment to neighbourhood police and put the police officer , police community support officer and special constable back into our neighbourhood — into our community , high street and town centre — will enable the police to take the action we all want to see against the antisocial behaviour that my hon . friend talk about . one of the good way of tackle retail crime and associate antisocial behaviour among young people be through targeted preventive work with at - risk pupil in school . an example be the guidance and welfare unit at cavendish school in Eastbourne . that unit be set up by my former headteacher , Mr Fitzpatrick , who be in the Public Gallery today , along with my former head of year , Mrs Fitzpatrick , who be also in the Gallery . will the Minister join I in congratulate inspirational teacher such as they on their critical safeguarding and prevention work with young people across Eastbourne and beyond ? I do not want to get into trouble ; I would like to congratulate Mr and Mrs Fitzpatrick on the work they have do — we know how important that early preventive work be . that be why this Government be also committed to our prevention partnership , identify young people who be on the cusp of get involve in criminality and divert they , and put the resource in to make sure they make much well choice in their life . Harrogate have a wealth of independent store that attract people to the town from across the region — include shoplifter , unfortunately . I have be speak with Harrogate business improvement district about what it can do to help tackle shoplift . it have an increasingly good relationship with North Yorkshire police . what step be the Minister take to encourage North Yorkshire police and other police organisation to work with local community and business organisation to crack down on shoplifting ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . I visit North Yorkshire last week , and one of the issue there be how well the police be work with community and the retail sector to start to tackle some of the issue around retail crime . over the next three year , £ 7 million will be allocate to support the police to tackle retail crime through the specialist team Opal , which be the national police intelligence unit . that unit be look at the serious organise criminal gang that be now involve in retail theft . Rural Crime what step she be take to reduce rural crime . the Government be commit to tackle rural crime . we recognise the devastating consequence it can have on community and the agricultural sector . under our reform , rural area will be safeguard through tough measure to clamp down on antisocial behaviour , to strengthen neighbourhood policing and to take action to prevent fly - tipping . antisocial behaviour in Tyrley , a small village in my constituency , have have a significant impact on the community . small rural community like these often feel overlooked and struggle to have their voice hear when it come to police and public safety . will the Government ensure that rural community , such as Tyrley , receive the name police officer guarantee , so that they have a dedicated point of contact for police and for support ? yes , and my hon . friend raise an important point about those small part of large rural community and how they can feel that our neighbourhood policing guarantee will provide they with reassurance . there be the name officer guarantee , and it be worth recognise the use of thing such as WhatsApp group in big rural area , where intelligence can be feed into the police . that can also be helpful for those community to feel safe . police in rural area be increasingly complex , but rural constabulary receive much less funding than inner - city one . I know the Minister will jump on this opportunity to complain about the last government , but will she at least take a moment to commit to publish the methodology behind the funding formula and open a conversation about fair funding for rural police force ? the hon . Gentleman be right : I be go to say that the funding formula be introduce by the previous Government — I think in 2011 . they have two go at try to update it , and they do not do anything about it . we have be in government for seven month now , and this be what we have inherit . in a lot of area , we have inherit thing that we would not necessarily have want to have inherit . as I have say before to the House , we will be look at police reform go forward , and part of that conversation will be around financial issue . asylum seeker : Hotels what step she be take to reduce the use of hotel to house asylum seeker . what step she be take to reduce the number of people live in asylum hotel . we be continue to reduce the use of asylum hotel from the peak , which be reach under the previous Government , when more than 400 hotel be in use across the country at a cost of £ 9 million every day . we be determined to end the use of hotel over time as part of our wide objective to cut the cost of asylum accommodation and restore order to our immigration system . asylum seeker be force to live in limbo . bournemouth hotel cost the taxpayer eye - watering sum , as we just hear , and everyone be stick in a situation that nobody want . I have write to Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council to express opposition to additional asylum hotel in my constituency . will the Minister outline how the Home Office have reallocate resource follow the election to speed up the closure of hotel and the processing of asylum application , to turn a page on 14 year of conservative failure ? we be determined to end hotel usage as part of our objective to cut the cost of asylum accommodation . a key element of that be clear the asylum backlog and increase return , so that the system operate swiftly , firmly and fairly . I be afraid that determination will not quite cut it , will it ? pensioner in North Dorset who have be deprive of their winter fuel allowance and farmer who have be hit by and be now face a massive tax burden will want to know how the Minister will reduce the cost of asylum hotel , which be , as she say , eye - wateringly high . the action and her word be not apparently match . we have to deal with the chaotic system that we inherit from the Conservatives . we be do that in various way . one of the big thing that we be try to do be speed up the system and end the backlog so that we can get people out of hotel . phone Theft what step she be take to tackle phone theft . the Government be determined to act to ensure that people feel safe on our street . on 6 February the Home Secretary bring together law enforcement agency and representative of the mobile phone industry to discuss what more could be do to break the business model of mobile phone theft , and to bring about strong collaboration across those agency to crack down on the criminal network that be operate in this trade . in early time mobile phone theft be see as an urban issue , but as have be evidence by my postbag over the last couple of week , it be increase in our rural town and village . what discussion be the Minister have with her colleague in the Ministry of Justice to ensure that repeat perpetrator of this crime face custodial sentence ? while there be a concentration of phone theft in the Metropolitan police area in particular , it be important to note that they be happen around the country , and it be be suggest that the good practice use by those who be start to tackle the problem , notably the West Midlands police force , should be spread to all force . the taskforce that I mention early in connection with a summit will meet again in three month , and I will certainly speak to my colleague at the Ministry of Justice about the issue that the hon . Gentleman have raise . hostile State Threats what step her Department be take to counter hostile state threat . the Home Office work closely with other Departments and operational agency to strengthen the UK ' s defence against state threat . that include continue to implement measure in the National Security Act 2023 , which will make the UK a hard target for state that seek to commit hostile act . hostile state be use unknowe security official here in the UK to undermine our national security and conceal their activity , and the director general of MI5 have say that Russia and Iran be increasingly use this tactic . I welcome the Home Office guidance that allow security organisation to carry out effective due diligence , but what else be the Department do , with the security industry , to ensure that our country be protect from these hostile state threat ? I thank my hon . friend not just for his question but for mention the recent Home Office guidance , which be a crucial first step in upskille security official on the risk that they might encounter from state actor . we be follow that up with target engagement event across the sector , include upcoming industry conference which we will be attend to ensure that the key message be well understand and we can have an ongoing dialogue with the sector about the handling of such threat . when consider hostile state threat , we can not ignore terrorist group from both the right and the left in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland who work with some of those state . what be be do to ensure that paramilitary group across the United Kingdom be take on , and that the hostile state they represent on the basis of their own motivation can be address directly ? the hon . Gentleman have make an important point , as he always do . I can say to he that a threat be a threat , regardless of the direction from which it come . we take all those threat extremely seriously , and we work around the clock with the police and the operational agency to keep the public safe , wherever the threat may originate . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . strong encryption be vital for everyone ' s security , but last week Apple pull its advanced data protection service in the UK after the Home Office have reportedly demand back - door access to its UK customer ' encrypt datum . liberal Democrats have long argue that investigatory power must be proportionate , as any " way in " for security service can be exploit by criminal gang or , indeed , hostile state to target innocent people . give that right and security go hand in hand , what step be the Minister take to ensure that our national security and civil liberty be properly protect ? why do the Government believe that Apple ' s UK customer do not deserve the same privacy right as every other customer in the rest of the world ? I hope the hon . Lady will understand that I can not comment on operational matter , and it would not be appropriate for I either to confirm or to deny the existence of any notice under the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 . this be a long - stand position hold by successive government for obvious reason of national security . what I can say be that the suggestion that privacy and security be at odd be not correct ; we can and must have both . the Investigatory Powers Act contain robust safeguard and independent oversight to protect privacy and ensure that datum be obtain only on an exceptional basis , and only when it be necessary and proportionate to do so . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I call the Home Secretary . thank you , Mr Speaker . " my son didn ' t stand a chance . " those be the heartbreaking word of Pooja Kanda , whose teenage son Ronan be fatally stab in 2022 . his teenage killer be able to buy multiple dangerous weapon online , without any proper check . follow Pooja ' s campaign , we be introduce Ronan ' s law , which include tighten the rule for online retailer , increase the maximum penalty for sell weapon to under - 18 , and introduce much more stringent ID check at the point of purchase and delivery . I thank Commander Stephen Clayman for his crucial review in this area , which underpin the reform , and pay tribute to the Kanda family . we need to do everything in our power to prevent other family from suffer from terrible knife crime . Thames Valley police be £ 1 . 9 million down this year because of the flawed formula for distribute fund to police force after a pay award be give . when will this historical anomaly be fix ? I will just point out to the hon . Gentleman that his party have 14 year to address all the thing he be so concerned about now . this Government have increase funding for police by up to £ 1 . 1 billion next year , include £ 200 million to start redress the huge cut in neighbourhood police that we have see on our street in Thames Valley and right across the country , because we need to get police back on the street . I thank the Minister for her previous answer , and for her commitment to reduce the number of asylum claimant in the UK . as she will know , the UK be spend 27 % of its official development assistance on housing asylum claimant — almost double the OECD average . our overseas spend be cut by the previous Government . do she agree that in order to reduce the number of claimant come to the UK , the Government should increase the spend on build peace and security abroad ? my hon . friend be right to say that asylum cost make up the bulk of Home Office spend classify as ODA spending and that we be committed to reduce they , include by end the use of hotel , which will mean that we can return that ODA resource so that it can be use upstream to prevent migratory flow from happen in the first place . I call the shadow Home Secretary . border security be fundamental , but between the July election and yesterday , 25 , 135 people illegally and dangerously cross the english channel — a 28 % increase on the same period 12 month early . do the Home Secretary now regret ignore the National Crime Agency ' s advice that law enforcement alone be not enough and that a removal deterrent be need ? I will just point out to the shadow Home Secretary that when the Conservatives be in government , we see that many people arrive in the space of just over 100 day , because they completely lose control of our border and let criminal gang take hold along the channel . some 84 , 000 people arrive in small boat while the Rwanda policy that he somehow want to reintroduce manage to send just four volunteer . we have increase return by over 20 % to 19 , 000 , which be important . I hope he will explain why he vote against counter - terrorism power to go after smuggler gang . the Home Secretary talk about the Rwanda scheme . of course , it never even start , as she well know . the first flight be due to take off after the election , but she cancel it . she mention that return have go up . what she fail to mention be that the vast majority of those people do not enter the country by small boat . the number of small boat return go down after this government come into office , and it represent only 4 % of people cross the english channel . do she really think that let 96 % of illegal immigrant stay here be go to deter anybody ? I just say to the shadow Home Secretary that the Rwanda scheme run for two year . it be run for two year — it never start . exactly ! all they manage to do — order . please , let we show a little bit more restraint , and when you ask a question , at least wait for the answer . the scheme run for two year , and the Conservatives spend £ 700 million of taxpayer ' money to return just four people . in the period during which the shadow Home Secretary be in the Government , 128 , 000 people arrive on small boat , and only a tiny percentage of they be ever return , even though that number include 12 , 000 Albanians . this government be have to sort out this chaos , but his party be again fail to support counter - terrorism power against smuggler and traffic gang — side with the criminal smuggler gang instead of the people of Britain . it be illegal to post a prostitution advert in a phone box , yet the very same advert can be freely post online by a pimp website . such website be make it as easy to order a woman to exploit as it be to order a takeaway . do the Minister agree that we must urgently update our anti - pimp law to make it a criminal offence to enable or to profit from the prostitution of another person online or offline ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important point . the Government be clear that online platform be a significant enabler of sexual exploitation , and must be responsible and hold accountable for the content of their site , include take proactive step to prevent their site be use by criminal . we be implement the Online Safety Act 2023 , which set out priority offence , include sexual exploitation and human trafficking . I call the Liberal Democrats spokesperson . on a recent visit to Marple sixth - form college , I be remind that the last Conservative Government abandon young people and our economy by trash our relationship with Europe , so I be delighted to see recent report in the Times that the Prime Minister will offer a youth mobility scheme in negotiation with the EU . this be a common - sense approach that will give our young people opportunity and help grow our economy . will the Secretary of State support deliver the good possible deal for young people here in the UK by extend a youth mobility scheme to the EU ? as the Front - Bench spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats know , that be not our plan , and we be clear that net migration need to come down . it quadruple under the previous Conservative Government in the space of just four year , and that number need to come down . we believe we should support young people across this country , include through youth prevention partnership . exactly two week ago today , Dariusz Serafin tragically die from a knife wound on the street of West Ealing — on a road long blight by antisocial behaviour , about which I have write to the police just the week before . how will the Government ' s new respect order and the crackdown on knife help bring reassurance to my constituent in West Ealing ? I be very sorry to hear about the incident to which my hon . friend refer . she will know that we have a commitment to halve knife crime over the next decade . we have already introduce the ban on zombie knife and machete , and we be move forward with the ban on ninja sword . last week , the Home Secretary announce the new measure under Ronan ' s law to tighten the lethal loophole in the online sale of knife , and we be develop the Young Futures programme , with prevention partnership at their heart , to stop young people get involve in knife crime . my constituent Kia McNicoll be a mother of four child , and her three - year - old , Patryk , be recently diagnose with cancer . Kia ' s mother - in - law recently apply for a visa extension so that she can help the family with childcare through these most horrific of circumstance , but her application be reject . forgive I , Mr Speaker , but I can not tell the difference between this Labour Government and the Tories who come before they . will the Minister commit to look at this application again , so that my constituent can focus on what matter most : the health of her son ? I thank the hon . member for his question , and if he want to write to I about that case , I will be very happy to look at it . Eenie and Meenie , two white cat from Stanbridge , be recently shoot and kill . could the Minister outline what discussion she have have with local police to that ensure that these crime be properly investigate and that the law be uphold ? the abuse of animal use weapon of any type be an incredibly serious matter , and there be such provision in the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 , the Wild Mammals ( Protection ) Act 1996 and the Animal Welfare Act 2006 . there be a range of offence , and I encourage anyone who witness this kind of event to report it to the police . I will certainly discuss what more we can do with my colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . many of my constituent have raise concern about e - bike and e - scooter be a safety hazard when modify or misuse . what be the Minister do to tackle rider travel at high speed on pavement and other pedestrian area , and help my constituent to feel safe on their street again ? I can reassure the hon . member that dangerous and antisocial behaviour involve e - bike will be cover by the legislation we be introduce tomorrow to tackle vehicle and off - road bike use in antisocial behaviour , so that we can keep street and community safe . antisocial behaviour be too common on the Wirral and it ruin life . this morning I speak to my constituent Henry , who tell I that have group of youth hang outside , intimidate and damaging property , make he feel like a prisoner in his own home . what more can be do to tackle such abuse and to support victim ? my hon . friend be right to raise this issue . too often antisocial behaviour be dismiss as a low - level crime , yet it can make people ' s live a complete misery . that be why we need more neighbourhood police back on our street , work in community to prevent and tackle the kind of problem that community face . the Prime Minister recently say he be : " hardwire growth into all the decision of the Cabinet " . how do he react when the Home Secretary tell he that her policy on electronic travel authorisation would cost the economy nearly £ 735 million over five year ? we be introduce electronic travel authorisation in line with the approach of our international partner such as Australia and the USA , who have also be look at how to enhance their ability to pre - screen traveller upstream , to stop those who pose a threat from travel to the UK . as the former immigration Minister and now shadow Secretary of State of Justice , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , say at the time : " ETAs will enhance our border security by increase our knowledge about those seek to come to the UK and prevent the arrival of those who pose a threat . " if the hon . Gentleman disagree with he , I suggest they have a catch - up . perhaps the conservative party will have work out by then where it stand on the policy . in recent year , the UK have slide down the international league table on tackle corruption . give the threat of corruption to our democracy , economy and national security , will the Minister say whether the Government intend to publish a new comprehensive anti - corruption strategy ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the work he do on the all - party parliamentary group on anti - corruption and responsible tax . I can confirm that the Government take the threat of corruption , illicit finance and kleptocracy extremely seriously , which be why we announce that we will publish a new UK anti - corruption strategy this year . the new strategy will include measure that make it hard for corrupt actor to operate , strengthen global resilience to corruption , and address the UK ' s vulnerability to corruption , include through way to ensure that all those in public service be hold to the high standard . the Home Secretary know that raise the minimum income threshold have reduce net migration , which be why I introduce it while I be Home Secretary . if the Home Secretary want to continue bring net migration down , will she now confirm that she will introduce the further increase to the threshold , as I propose ? net migration quadruple during the period when the former Home Secretary be in government , in the space of just four year — the most shocking loss of control of our border . we see visa and overseas recruitment shoot up at exactly the same time as training here in the UK fall . that be why this Government will publish a White Paper that set out measure to reduce net migration , include by ensure that employer recruit and train here in the UK . on Friday night , I join Bedfordshire police officer on a ride - a - long to see first hand the great work they do to help vulnerable people . however , the Policing Minister know that Bedfordshire police rely heavily on specific grant to tackle serious , violent and organised crime . will she confirm that those grant will continue , and when we might we hear about that ? I visit Bedfordshire police before Christmas , and I agree that it be an excellent force . decision around funding will be make in due course . refugee here from Ukraine under the Homes for Ukraine scheme be not eligible to indefinite leave . they have a three - year visa , which in many case , obviously , be about to expire . they have a very short window to apply for what be only an 18 - month extension . do the Home Secretary agree that that be not long enough for ukrainian family here to be able to plan their future , and will she reconsider ? I can say to the hon . Gentleman that we continue to support the Homes for Ukraine scheme , which remain extremely important — I have a family from Ukraine still live with I in Yorkshire . we will continue to support those family and will ensure that people be not disadvantage by the deadline that have be set . challenging violence against woman and girl be an absolutely critical mission of this Government . what work be the Minister do with the Department for Education to promote positive role model in our school and further education college ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I be literally about to go into a cross - government ministerial meeting with the Department for Education about exactly that . our violence against woman and girl strategy will not succeed without prevention through education . the Home Secretary quite conspicuously fail to answer the question that my hon . friend the Member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) ask early , so I be go to have another go . should it ever be a criminal offence for anybody to desecrate a religious text — yes or no ? the hon . Gentleman will know that we do not have a blasphemy law in this country , nor will we have one . three week ago , I meet a nine - year - old boy in Blackpool ' s asylum hotel . he can not walk , have frequent seizure and be non - verbal . since May last year , his family have be request a wheelchair , as they have to carry he everywhere they go . no child , especially one with these need , should have to go without the equipment that give they the dignity to live . do the Minister agree that such hotel be unsuitable for vulnerable child , and will she personally intervene to help I to get this young lad a wheelchair ? I thank my hon . friend for bring this matter to my attention . my official have investigate , and Serco have refer the case to healthcare partner , who be currently in the process of provide a suitable wheelchair follow a thorough assessment of the child ' s need . official be monitor the situation closely to ensure the family receive the support they require . domestic abuse service in my area be tell I there be a specific shortage of place in shelter for man , which be a particular problem for woman flee domestic abuse with their teenage son . what be be do to address this problem specifically ? refuge accommodation actually sit within the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . however , we have invest £ 30 million extra for council to look at the need they have in their area , which will include create dispersal accommodation , as woman with old boy be often not allow into group accommodation . last week , I hold a summit with local business in the Top of Town in Basingstoke to discuss how we can breathe new life into our town centre . one of the key message be that persistent antisocial behaviour be make resident feel unsafe and create a barrier to business thrive . what reassurance can the Home Secretary give business and constituent in Basingstoke that this Government be make progress in restore town centre patrol ? my hon . friend be right to raise this matter , for both Basingstoke and town right across the country . town centre be blight by a 60 % increase in shop theft in the two year before the election , as well antisocial behaviour . that be why tackle town centre crime will be at the heart of the crime and police Bill , introduce tomorrow . do the Home Secretary agree that it would be a well use of Greater Manchester police officer ' time if they actually police the street and prevent crime , rather than visit grandmother ' home to discuss a Facebook post ? perhaps the hon . Gentleman miss the discussion on this early . we have be clear that the central priority for police set by this Government be neighbourhood police , to tackle town centre crime , challenge across the country and serious violence , include violence against woman and girl and the knife crime devastate young life . we have make those priority clear to police force right across the country as part of our police reform and our new legislation . for the final question , Jonathan Brash . dispersal accommodation for asylum be unevenly distribute across the country . in Hartlepool , we support 50 asylum seeker per 10 , 000 in the population , yet a few mile up the road , the neighbouring local authority support seven per 10 , 000 , with local authority elsewhere in the country host none . do the Minister agree that this be unfair , and that , as we bring the number down , we must evenly distribute support for asylum seeker across the area ? we do inherit a very uneven distribution — if I could put it that way — of dispersed accommodation , often in poor area where , its presence put more pressure on local community . it be not a situation that we would have want , and we want to remedy it over time . Plant Oxford Site ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade if we will make a statement on the Plant Oxford site . this Government be determined to see a strong , thrive UK automotive industry . we recognise the vital role that the british motor industry play within our manufacturing landscape , employ more than 150 , 000 people , with ten of thousand more work in the wide supply chain . that be why we be plough £ 2 billion into the sector ' s green transition and £ 300 million to encourage the uptake of new , clean , green electric vehicle — a big incentive for the global automotive sector to invest in the UK . build on this momentum , our modern industrial strategy will back automotive company that want to invest in Britain and drive long - term sustainable UK growth . BMW have take a commercial decision to delay the production of two new electric mini model at its Oxford plant . undoubtedly , that news will be unsettling for the company ' s many hard - work employee , not least those work directly on the production line , but I must stress that BMW remain committed to its investment in the UK . it be by no mean unusual for a manufacturer to adjust its product line - up or production start date for commercial reason . we be proud that BMW consider Oxford to be at the heart of mini production . as a government , we be throw our weight behind its investment . we want big automotive brand from Britain and around the world to lie at the heart of our growth mission and plan for change , create well - pay job and put more money into people ' s pocket . as part of that effort , this Government be work closely with BMW as it review its investment timeline , ensure that more car be build right here in the United Kingdom . I draw attention to my entry in the register of interest . I expect the Secretary of State to hide from talk of cv , but it seem that also apply to EVs . this weekend we see the disastrous consequence of Labour ' s rigid approach to net zero : BMW hit the brake on a £ 600 million investment in Plant Oxford . that deal , from 2023 , would have secure 4 , 000 high - quality job and be a strong vote of confidence in the UK . like other deal , it be possible only because the previous Government be willing to be pragmatic . the Conservatives make the sensible decision to delay the ban on internal combustion engine car , bring the UK into line with major global economy such as France , Germany , Sweden and Canada , but Labour say it know well , restore the 2030 phase - out date in its manifesto . when the negative impact of that approach become clear , the Government launch a fast - track consultation on the zero emission vehicle mandate , pitifully attempt to buy themselves time . surely , no consultation be necessary . the effect of their puritanical ZEV obsession be already clear : Jaguar Land Rover say that the ZEV mandate be cause disruption to the market ; Vauxhall have confirm that it will shut down its Luton factory , cite the ZEV mandate as make the plant less economically viable ; and now the future of Plant Oxford — the home of the Mini since 1959 — be uncertain . labour ' s reckless policy have shatter industry confidence , with consumer demand for EVs drop off a cliff and number only just about sustain by subsidise fleet sale . will the Minister do the right thing : stop hide behind consultation and acknowledge that the Government ' s ideological approach to net zero will lead only to economic disaster for our automotive sector and consumer alike ? it be hard to know where to start . the " puritanical ZEV obsession " be , as the hon . Gentleman know , a conservative policy from the last government . the only change make to that policy under the last Prime Minister dampen demand by change the deadline , and hamper manufacturer by not ensure flexibility or pragmatism in how the policy operate — it be the bad of both world . by contrast , Labour and the Government be act with pragmatism . we be listen to industry and work at pace to get this right . we be also create the condition in which the automotive industry can thrive . that mean deliver not just the economic and political stability so lack under the previous Government , but an industrial strategy that will deliver growth , include in the automotive industry ; invest £ 2 billion in automotive transition through the Budget ; invest in research and development ; support and talk to our industry ; and understand the global climate . it be really clear in BMW ' s statement that there be macroeconomic global and commercial reason why the decision to delay be make , but BMW be clear that it be still committed to this investment in the UK . I have talk to my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) , who be liaise closely with worker and union , as would be expect . we will continue to work to ensure the right economic and political climate , so that these industry can grow . will the Minister update the House on progress on the industrial strategy for the automotive industry ? how will that support supply chain in place like Dudley and across the west midland ? we be work at pace on deliver the industrial strategy in the spring . there be 150 , 000 good job in the automotive industry , and we want to see those job grow . we have identify eight growth sector that the industrial strategy will turbocharge . advanced manufacturing be one of they , and that of course include the auto industry . we have £ 2 billion of investment , commit at the Budget , to underpin that . we be also work in the industrial strategy on identify any barrier to growth , so that we can ensure that the sector grow in the year to come . the industrial strategy will give the stability that we need over the long term — over five and 10 year . it will look at the policy lever that we can control to ensure that business continue to want to invest in the UK . PwC have just rank the UK the second - good place in the world to invest , so I think the future be positive . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . this be yet another failure in the Government ' s main aim of get Britain grow again . zero - emission vehicle be too expensive and , it appear , too hard to manufacture in the UK . that force we into an unfortunate reality in which we be reliant on Elon Musk for our supply of EVs , and be funnel money into his already very deep pocket , rather than promote a productive domestic market with good job . we need to show ambition and make it easy for ordinary family to buy ev . what measure will the Government take to support and encourage consumer demand for electric vehicle ? the hon . Gentleman talk about the Government ' s policy for grow the economy . a few month ago , we hold an international investment summit , at which £ 63 billion of investment be announce . as I have mention , there be £ 2 billion announce in the Budget for the automotive industry . interest rate have be cut three time , wage be up , and more than 70 , 000 job have be secure in the UK since the Government come to power . the International Monetary Fund and the OECD predict that the UK will be Europe ' s fast - grow economy over the next few year . the industrial strategy be scrap under the last government ; our industrial strategy will be the backbone of ensure that we deliver growth . [ Official Report , 3 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 1wc . ] ( Correction ) the hon . Gentleman ask what we be do . I have already set out the stability , investment and reform that we be bring to the sector to make sure that it can thrive . hundred of thousand of people rely on the automotive industry through their work in it , or in its supply chain . those be good , well - pay job , and we be absolutely determined to ensure that the sector grow . the Minister have set out how we deliver £ 2 billion - worth of support for the automotive sector in the Budget . that support be both for manufacturing and for the crucial supply chain in place such as my Black Country constituency and Oxford . be she able to set out any further detail about how that money will be use to support our brilliant manufacturing ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , and for her support for the industry , which be so important . through the £ 2 billion funding , the automotive transformation fund , the exceptional regional growth fund and the advanced propulsion centre research and development fund , we have find innovative way of support the industry . in January , I be pleased to hear Jatco , a company that make transmission for Nissan , announce that it would put its first manufacture plant in Europe here in the UK ; it be convert an old hospital building with a £ 50 million investment . that plant will be at the international advanced manufacturing park in Sunderland . that be the kind of opportunity that we want to create and deliver . Jaguar Land Rover , which have its engine manufacturing centre base in Staffordshire , be a vital employer for people not just in Staffordshire , but right across the west midland . that plant be pioneer the development of electric vehicle for JLR . what additional support and flexibility will there be from the Government to ensure that great british brand continue to prosper in the west midland ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to talk about great british brand . we have some incredible small car manufacturer , as well as large one , in the UK , and there be great diversity of provision . we be support the development of gigafactorie in the UK , so that we can make the battery that we need . we be help with R & d and innovation to make our car more sophisticated and efficient , and support the large manufacturer to ensure that the condition be right for they to develop in the UK . we be do all those thing through our industrial strategy and our automotive strategy . I work with the Automotive Council ; we meet just a couple of week ago to talk about the vibrant future that we see for automotive in the UK . I be always happy to talk to JLR about its plan , and have do so several time . I know that the shadow Minister struggle with the dynamic of the automotive industry , but for the last 20 year , 50 % of new vehicle sale have be fleet and business sale . do the Minister agree that the decision take today be a commercial decision , base around the structure of BMW ' s dealer network , as oppose to an obsession with petrol and diesel vehicle ? my hon . friend as absolutely right to say that this be a commercial decision . as he would expect , we be talk to representative of BMW ; my official be with they in Munich a couple of week ago , and I have meet the UK managing director several time . we be talk to they to support the commercial decision that they need to make . they have make it clear that there be macroeconomic , global and commercial reason for the delay that have be announce ; such delay be not uncommon . I know that BMW remain committed to this investment in the UK . More than 300 employee at the BMW plant in Oxford live in my constituency , and this morning I meet plant convenor from the Unite union to discuss the impact that the uncertainty at the plant be have on those worker and their family . can the Minister outline exactly how the new industrial strategy will help the plant to become more competitive , in the face of severe competition from other BMW plant in the EU , the US and China ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the concern that I suspect those employee feel . they have know about this change since last year . there be 3 , 500 people who work in the Oxford plant and many more who work at Rolls - Royce , which be own by BMW , and in other part of the UK . through the industrial strategy , we be look at a number of issue that we will use the £ 2 billion for , and we will use the power that we have . skill , energy cost and access to finance be all issue that we be have lot of conversation about , as well as the transition to electric vehicle . we be make sure that the flight path for investment in the UK be as good as possible , and that those who be already invest in the UK continue to do so . BMW have announce a £ 300 million investment in Rolls - Royce , which it own . it remain committed to this investment in the UK , but I appreciate that there will be concern among the worker to whom the hon . Gentleman have be talk , and I be always happy to meet people to discuss these matter in more detail . tata ' s Llanwern steelwork in my constituency produce world - class automotive steel . the Minister have acknowledge the importance of the automotive sector . will she also acknowledge the importance of have a strong steel industry , and of plant like Llanwern make steel for ev , and put that at the heart of the forthcoming industrial strategy — a strategy that the Conservatives never have ? I be glad that my hon . friend have manage , as ever , to bring steel into the debate . it be incredibly important , and that be why we will have a separate steel strategy , on top of the work that we be do in the industrial strategy to ensure a thriving sector in the future . that will look at all the issue that we be grapple with and that she know about , include the transition , energy price , access to finance , access to grid connection and scrap . we will continue to ensure that the UK ' s six steel producer can thrive and bring in new business . in answer to the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , the Minister state that the strategy be result in people want to invest in the United Kingdom . the sad fact be that as a result of the mad net zero policy that this Government be follow , we be lose investment every week ; this be yet another example . do the Minister not follow the logic ? if we punish people for not want the car that we produce , the company will cut back production and job , consumer will not get what they want , and economic growth will be affect . when will this Government come to the conclusion that this policy of net zero and punish people be wrong ? I do not know if the right hon . Gentleman see that the CBI bring out figure over the weekend show that the net zero economy grow by 10 % last year , which be significantly more than the economy as a whole . we be absolutely right to transition to electric vehicle , so that we can stick to our commitment on climate change . we be be pragmatic in how we do that . we be not follow the same policy as the previous Government , because we be talk to industry and consulting . we will publish the result of the consultation on how the flexibility within the transition be work , and whether we need to change they in any way . the british car industry be thrive until the Conservative party introduce net stupid zero , and now we have another car plant at risk ; another business struggle and lose hundred of million of pound ; and hundred more british job at risk . do the Minister agree that the automotive industry in the UK will continue to decline until we scrap net zero ? here we go with the same old line . the hon . Gentleman tell we that net zero be a massive con , yet he own a company that be invest in electric car charge port . I rest my case . on that well - know BMW plant in Strangford , I call Jim Shannon . the Minister have a real interest in the matter for which she have ministerial responsibility ; I want to put on the record my thank to she . when we have have meeting on other issue relate to Northern Ireland , she have be anxious to help and support I , and I appreciate that . the decision not to go ahead with the ev production be disappointing to say the least , but it perhaps indicate a wide issue that we face in the manufacturing industry due to rise cost . what can the Minister do to help company attract more investment through low energy cost , and what can the Government do to ensure that british job be not send to China , and to ensure that firm that choose to relocate job understand that no future help will be forthcoming ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word . I should be clear for the House that the decision have not be make to not go ahead ; this be a delay and a change in timing . BMW be committed to go ahead with the investment . at the moment , its e - Mini be be produce in China . this investment will bring it here to the UK . [ Official Report , 3 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 2wc . ] ( correction ) lot must be do in term of energy price , as he say . build a gigafactory mean significant reduction in energy price , but the wide manufacturing sector be talk to we virtually every day about these kind of issue . through the industrial strategy and the reform that we want to bring in , and by spend the £ 2 billion that we be allocate in the Budget , we hope to deliver a thriving automotive industry well into the future . Ukraine with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on Ukraine . in January 2022 , I visit the Wall of Remembrance of the Fallen in Kyiv with my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary . see the face of all those who have lose their life since 2014 bring home the human cost of Kremlin imperialism — and of the ukrainian determination to stand up to it . indeed , some week later , just as british and american intelligence service have warn , we awake to news of Putin ' s full - scale invasion , launch to shatter the sovereign state of Ukraine . today , we mark three year of ukrainian courage in resist that brutal , illegal and unprovoked invasion . I have witness their fortitude at first hand in three visit to Kyiv over the past year — their defiant blitz spirit as russian missile and drone rain down night after night after night . on this grim anniversary , amid all the talk about talk , we must not forget that Russia ' s barbaric war go on , that the ukrainian people be suffer , and that , beyond Europe , the conflict be pile pressure on the world ' s poor , too . this debate take place against the backdrop of intense diplomatic effort , respond of course to President Trump ' s call to bring this war to a swift end . at the G20 in South Africa last week , I listen to Sergey Lavrov . once again , he shamelessly play the victim , rehash the same old lie . I will say to the House what I say in response : if Russia be serious about a last peace that respect Ukraine ' s sovereignty , Ukraine ' s independence and the United Nations charter ; guarantee Ukraine ' s security against future aggression ; and reject imperialism , then Britain will listen . no one want that more than Ukraine . at the Munich security conference , I underline that Ukraine must be at the heart of any talk about Ukraine ' s future , and I say that the west must learn from our history . Vladimir Putin and his war be no historical aberration . he draw on a tsarist tradition — the imperialism and authoritarianism of Peter the Great or Nicholas I — and a soviet tradition : he be , after all , a KGB agent who operate by deception . it be an american diplomat , George Kennan , whose " long telegram " in 1946 warn of a deep continuity in Kremlin thinking . he argue that the Kremlin would respond only to strength . that be the basis for the policy of containment , as part of which Britain contribute ten of thousand of troop to the British Army of the Rhine . it be that strength , not paper promise , that deter Moscow from further advance west . today , let we look at the Kremlin ' s recent record . the Helsinki Final Act of 1975 — betray . the Budapest memorandum of 1994 — betray . the NATO - Russia Founding Act of 1997 — betray . the Minsk agreement of 2014 and 2015 — betray . this be foreign policy by lie . we must respond by be true to ourselves and provide the support Ukraine need to stay strong , because that be what be need to secure a last peace and shape our collective security so that Putin never invade again . the UK have a unique role in help to make that happen . my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister be in Paris last week talk to our european ally about how we step up support for Ukraine , accelerate work on security guarantee and take more responsibility for the security of our continent . in Munich , I speak to Vice - President Vance and Secretary of State Rubio . in Brussels , my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary chair the Ukraine defence contact group , where US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth confirm that , like we , the US want to see a sovereign , prosperous Ukraine . Europe must shoulder its share of the burden . with the United States and its unique capability , we can deter Putin from attack Ukraine again and from escalate hybrid russian attack in Europe into some form of direct confrontation , so this week the Prime Minister and I will be travel to Washington DC to meet President Trump . Ukraine need friend and ally on both side of the Atlantic work together to achieve " peace through strength " . both President Trump and President Zelensky have speak of their desire to achieve that , and the Prime Minister will reaffirm to Zelensky in a call today that it be Britain ' s goal as well . that must include european country invest more in our own defence and capability . already , the UK have step up and speed up military assistance . we have commit £ 3 billion in military aid a year — every year , for as long it take . over the next two year , we will provide an additional £ 2 . 26 billion earmark for military spending , via our share of the $ 50 billion G7 loan back by frozen russian asset . in addition , as the Prime Minister have make clear , we know our Kremlin history , and that be why we be ready to contribute to future security guarantee for Ukraine in the context of a US backstop , include by put our own troop on the ground if necessary . that would not be an easy decision — anyone in this House who have take responsibility for the life of british serviceman and woman can attest to that — but I know the whole House recognise that Ukraine ' s security be our security . the UK also continue to set the pace on ratchet up the economic pressure on the Kremlin . together with our international partner , we have already deny Russia access to $ 400 billion . its war economy be increasingly unsustainable . inflation be 9 . 9 % and rise , and that be just the official figure . interest rate be run at 21 % . this year , Russia will spend almost 41 % of its budget on defence and security . today , we be announce our big package of sanction since the early day of the war : over 100 target , include 40 oil tanker — our large set of ship specification in a single sanction package yet — as well as third - country enabler that be pour money into Putin ' s war chest . new legislation impose additional trade sanction on Russia , too . that will deny Russia access to the world - lead expertise need to maintain its war . today , the UK be also solidify our historic 100 - year partnership with Ukraine , which be sign by the Prime Minister and President Zelensky in Kyiv in January . in February , I see for myself how much that partnership mean to Ukraine , and how much potential there be for our collective growth and security . together , we lay that agreement in Parliament for scrutiny , and I look forward to it enter into force when the process be complete — a clear sign of our confidence in Ukraine ' s future . Mr Speaker , this be a critical moment . I want to acknowledge how colleague have stand unite over these past three year , include hon . member from all party as well as noble Lords in the other place , the shadow Foreign Secretary , and several predecessor as Foreign Secretary . I be proud of that unity , which be a tribute to our country , proud of this country ' s unwavere support for our ukrainian friend , and proud that the United Kingdom be rightly take on the responsibility of bring our ally together . that be how we confront a foreign policy base on lie , and how we secure Ukraine ' s future , secure Europe ' s future , and face down a Kremlin dictator once again . Slava Ukraini . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I begin by thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and for advance sight of it . the House stand unite with Ukraine on this grim milestone . three year on from Putin ' s full - scale invasion of Ukraine , we all think of the innocent life catch up in this terrible conflict : the civilian mercilessly kill in town such as Bucha and Irpin and in the east , the young ukrainian child forcibly deport to Russia , the family of brave troop who have not return alive from the frontline , all those with life - change injury , and those who have lose their home and possession . when the war start , the UK lead global effort to back Ukraine and , rightly , to punish Putin . from train ten of thousand of ukrainian recruit on british soil and donate Challenger 2 battle tank and storm Shadow missile , to be part of an unprecedented international sanction response that have deprive Putin ' s regime of $ 400 billion and one of the first country to provide Ukraine with that multibillion - pound , multi - year funding pledge in military aid , the UK have lead the way for Ukraine . our support have make a material difference to Ukraine ' s ability to hold the line . we must never forget that the cost of this war to Putin have be catastrophic . Russia ' s Black sea fleet have be pummel , and it be likely that by summer Russia will have incur 1 million casualty , with Putin desperately turn to North Korea for troop and to Iran for weapon . meanwhile , as we have hear , Russia ' s economy be in dire strait . there have be uprising against Putin ' s regime , and the central pitch of his leadership — that he be the great restorer of Russia ' s stability — lie in ruin . the british public continue rightly to stand resolutely with Ukraine , and they expect we as politician across the House to do so . I thank again the many thousand who have so generously open up their home to Ukrainians flee the war , include through the Homes for Ukraine scheme . they have genuinely show the good of our country , the good of Britain . although there have be much debate about the course of the conflict in recent day , the war continue to rage . I urge the Government to continue give Ukraine everything it need — all the hardware it need and the diplomatic support to strengthen its hand . I be sure that the Foreign Secretary , with the Prime Minister , will do that in Washington this week . there must be no let - up whatsoever . we welcome today ' s announcement on new sanction . will the Foreign Secretary confirm that there be no plan to lift sanction in the future ? if he discuss the use of sanction when he go to Washington this week , and the role of the United States in that policy , will he assure we that he will update member on whether we should expect to see any new resource and support , in either military aid or humanitarian support , in the come week ? as the Foreign Secretary have say , now be the time for Britain to lead , as we do from day one , and ensure that Ukraine be in the good possible position to decide its own future . we should be very clear that it remain ultimately for Ukraine , as a proud and sovereign nation that have sacrifice so much to defend itself , to decide its own future , and that be peace through strength . we want this terrible war to be bring to an end and , like President Zelensky , we want a lasting , reliable and just peace . however , the Euro - Atlantic community must continue to be intensely robust in the face of Putin ' s aggression , because the lesson of the past 20 year be clear : he only come back for more . we must ensure that an illegal invasion like this can never happen again . we need a strong deterrent . we recognise that the Prime Minister have comment on the option and the security guarantee in recent day , and I can assure the House that his Majesty ' s opposition stand ready to engage with the Government at every single level . we must lead our NATO ally in Europe . in the long - term , collective defence and planning must be co - ordinate to back Ukraine in its fight for freedom . as the government know , there be already a fully - fund plan to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence by 2030 , as set out by the previous Government . I strongly urge the Government to at least look at a minimum plan to match that commitment . we will work with they on how that be deliver , to set a new benchmark for other NATO country to follow and to fire up everything we can on defence production . the US know that the UK have an influential role in NATO , and I be sure the Foreign Secretary will be discuss that this week . the target to spend 2 . 5 % of GDP be not a goal in itself , but an important step on the journey to increase the strength of our defence spending . give the threat that our nation face , I urge the Government and the Foreign Secretary — because the issue be within his purview and Department — to review and repurpose some of the 0 . 5 % currently spend on official development assistance to further our national defence , safety and security . finally , the moral and economic case for mobilise sovereign asset of Russia to support Ukraine be very clear . the Foreign Secretary have speak about that already , but I urge the Government to do more . Mr Speaker , we stand unite as one House . Slava Ukraini . I be very grateful to the right hon . Lady for the unity she demonstrate once again in the Chamber on the subject . I confirm for she that , of course , all hardware and military support , all diplomatic support and all humanitarian support continue . we continue to discuss those issue with our european partner , particularly at meeting at the Munich security conference and subsequentially , and we will continue to do that , to ensure that we put Ukraine in the strong possible position . the right hon . Lady rightly mention the british casualty during the last few year . some 17 british national who serve as member of the armed force of Ukraine have be kill in action , and we remember they on this day . the right hon . Lady also rightly mention our continued solidarity with Ukraine . we continue to discuss sanction with our european partner . just as we have announce a sanction package today , the EU , follow its meeting with the Foreign Affairs Council , have announce a sanction package too , which will all bear down on Putin ' s war machine . I can confirm that we continue to support Ukraine with a medical aid package for its man and woman on the frontline . I be grateful to the Defence Secretary for make further fund available in relation to that . the right hon . Lady rightly comment on defence spending . we be grateful for the unity that the official opposition be demonstrate on the issue . as we have say , it be very clear to all that Europe must pay a big part of the burden . in capital across the continent , leader be consider these issue . we have say that we will come forward with our plan shortly , and we will . in that context , as we have see from the Secretary - General , NATO have be very clear about the burden - sharing and burden - shift environment that we be now in . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . in my role as Chair of the Defence Committee , I get the opportunity to meet many ambassador , Defence Ministers , attach é s and other stakeholder , both here in London and at event and gathering such as the Munich security conference . there be considerable consternation and anxiety among they about whether long - establish and hard - earn alliance , rather than a short - term transactional approach , can still be rely on . give the reduced american presence , and as we mark the third anniversary of Putin ' s full - scale illegal invasion of Ukraine , people be look for leadership . I feel that this be our time as a nation to take that lead on defence and security matter in our continent . do my right hon . friend agree that it can be our Prime Minister who take that lead in our continent while pull together our transatlantic , NATO and other ally in the process ? the UK have be ironclad in its support for Ukraine . we have be forward - lean as Ukraine ' s primary friend in Europe and across the world , under successive government . it be also the case that we have a special relationship with the United States , underpin by a lot of military and defence capability and support over many , many year and , of course , a very close intelligence relationship . we bring all of that to bear in ensure that we get a resolution to this terrible conflict , but a resolution that mean we have an endure peace in which Ukraine be at the centre of discussion . my hon . friend should be absolutely sure that the UK intend to play its part , which be why we will meet with Donald Trump this week . the Prime Minister have also be at the centre of much shuttle diplomacy over this last period . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . today mark three year since Putin launch his barbaric full - scale invasion of Ukraine . many people , include Putin , expect russian tank to capture Kyiv in day , yet Putin fail to consider the resolve of the ukrainian people . three year on , Ukrainians bravely continue the fight against Putin ' s imperialism in defence of their sovereignty . the UK and this House have stand together with Ukraine throughout these darkest hour . across the country , people open their home to ukrainian guest and demonstrate their opposition to Putin ' s war . we must continue to support Ukrainians live in the UK , include by provide urgent clarity on what permanent option to remain the Government will introduce for they . however , the past week have expose the fragility of the west ' s support for Ukraine . in parrot the Kremlin ' s false claim that Ukraine start this war and that President Zelensky be a dictator , President Trump have show that the US can not be trust to support Ukraine ' s defence . that be why the UK , work with our continental ally , must step up to lead in Europe . that must include the UK commit to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence as soon as possible , and all party work together to build a consensus on reach 3 % . the Liberal Democrats support the Government ' s suggestion that british troop could join a reassurance mission in Ukraine if a just settlement be reach . that would depend on parliamentary approval for such military deployment . we also support the Government ' s announcement today of new sanction target russian kleptocrat . I urge the Foreign Secretary to add to that list the pro - russian founder of georgian Dream , Bidzina Ivanishvili . the Government should also now move to seize the frozen russian asset total £ 40 billion across the UK and Europe and channel those fund into Ukraine ' s defence . as a start , can the Foreign Secretary update the House on what be delay the release of the £ 2 . 5 billion promise to Ukraine from the sale of Chelsea football club ? this week in Washington , the Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary must make clear that the UK will continue to stand side by side with Ukraine for as long as it take to preserve ukrainian sovereignty . Slava Ukraini . I be very grateful to the hon . Gentleman . on his comment , we share President Trump ' s desire to bring this barbaric war to an end . we know that Russia could do that by withdraw its troop tomorrow , and President Trump agree with we that it be important that Ukraine be at the table . when I speak to Secretary Rubio , he be absolutely clear that there can be no peace without Ukraine . he be also clear that because of the burden of UK and EU sanction , there can not easily be a resolution to this conflict without Europe at the table as well . the hon . Gentleman ask about sanction and designation . combine across both party , we have now introduce more sanction for this crime and this terrible conflict than for any other in our parliamentary history . I can not comment on future designation , but the hon . Gentleman will know — and will have hear in my comment — that our desire be to put Ukraine in the strong possible position . we know that Putin have turn his economy into a war economy , and there be evasion that we will continue to bear down on . the hon . Gentleman rightly mention Abramovich and the money that have be set aside . we be redouble our effort to unlock that money , which could be use on the frontline to support Ukraine over the course of the next few month . I be sure that our ukrainian ally will listen to the steadfast support in this House and feel heartened , and that they will also notice whose voice be absent from the House at this time . there be press report that a deal be apparently imminent on ukrainian mineral deposit for America as the price of continued support , so be there anything more that we and our european partner can do to stop the eventual product — those crucial metal — end up in the hand of enemy and competitor state ? have that issue be discuss ? my hon . Friend ask a good question . I discuss that issue with President Zelensky when I be in Ukraine a few day ago , in the context of the 100 - year partnership that we have just sign with Ukraine . that partnership be a unique document , not only in our history and Ukraine ' s history , but in the history of the world , and I believe it set a pretty good guide for how to strike a relationship across many front . of course , that relationship will bring big win for british business over the year ahead , but it will also bring big win for ukrainian business — we will learn from their innovation . I look forward to the discussion that Ukraine be have with the United States . it be for Ukraine to make its own judgment , but I think that 100 - year partnership could be a good guide . I thank the Foreign Secretary for the robust and bipartisan approach he be take to this crisis . in that spirit , may I say to he that if the Government come forward with plan to reduce the number of adult welfare recipient just to 2019 level , that would save £ 40 billion a year ? it would mean that on Thursday he and the Prime Minister could say to President Trump that we be increase defence spending to 3 % of gdp , or even to 3 . 4 % of GDP , which be what the United States itself spend . that would secure not only the future of Ukraine , but the future of NATO , which be one of the most important challenge face the Government . I recognise that the right hon . Gentleman have tremendous experience in these matter . he have put his view on the record , and I be sure that the Chancellor of the Exchequer will be look very closely at they as part of the detailed conversation that go on across Government . it be clear that the rule - base order establish after the second world war be under extreme threat from oppressor and bully who think that they can just take what they want — and I be not just talk about Putin . a raft of sanction be introduce in 2022 ; why do my right hon . friend think that previous sanction fail to curb Russia , and what more do we need to do to organisation that use different measure to circumvent sanction ? my hon . friend refer to the rule - base order . that order be set up not just for its own sake , but because of the tremendous bloodshed and loss of life , include the many man and woman from our own country and from the United States and other ally who lose their life across Europe . the order have serve we well , and we have to ensure that we continue to protect it . she rightly refer to the evasion that we have see with the russian shadow fleet , and that be part of the discussion I have to have with certain state who facilitate it . it be why she will also see in the announcement that I have make more effort to target the dual - use technology that be find its way out of country such as China and be use against ukrainian man and woman . we need to recognise that the environment in which we operate have change fundamentally , and therefore our response must change fundamentally . I very much echo the call of my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) to increase defence spending now , because we have to send a message to our friend and foe alike that we take defence seriously . I urge the Foreign Secretary to remember the commitment we make to the ukrainian people when this full - scale invasion take place . our support to they be not contingent on the support of other ; it be absolute , and we should make good on that commitment , because we say thing that encourage the Ukrainians to put their son and daughter in harm ' s way . they have stand up their end of the bargain , and we should stand up our . the right hon . Gentleman be right : we have be Ukraine ' s foremost friend , and we will continue to do that . we have a key role to play , because of our special relationship with the United States . we understand here in Europe that , yes , we want this war to end , but we want an endure peace . we have get a long memory in relation to the Soviet Union and tsarist history , and that guide we on how we secure that peace . this weekend , I join Rochdale ' s proud , long - stand ukrainian community to mark the third anniversary of Putin ' s illegal war and to remember all those who have lose their life to russian aggression . our own Father Ben Lysykanych be today join the Prime Minister in Downing Street . do my right hon . friend agree that President Zelensky be a democrat , not a dictator , and that the ukrainian people can never again have their fate decide by other country carve up their land , as have happen far too often in the past ? I have meet President Zelensky six or seven time over this last period , and he have always strike I as the most courageous and brave of individual , lead his people to self - determination . that be something that we recognise right across the United Kingdom , and so we stand with he . I be at the Munich security conference and it become clear while talk with our european ally that they no long fully trust the article 5 security guarantee . put simply , they do not trust the Americans . conversation naturally turn to what collective defence look like in Europe without the Americans . last night , Chancellor - elect Merz say that conversation be happen at the high level on precisely that . will the Foreign Secretary comment on whether the UK be include in those conversation and on their content ? NATO have stand the test of time as the great modern - day alliance that we have ever see , and have be strengthen far follow the joining of Sweden and Finland . of course there be a debate in Europe — there be a debate about burden share , there be a debate about burden shift , and there be some who think that there be a debate about burden dump — but NATO be a great alliance , and we work across that alliance . successive United States Presidents , from Roosevelt to Obama and , of course , President Trump , have rightly say that Europe must do more , and that be what we now have to do . the question of defence spending and GDP have be raise . I think it be clear from recent event that we can not wait until 2030 to spend 2 . 5 % , and , in fact , we should be exceed that percentage . in the lead - up to any negotiation , it be essential for we to ensure that Ukraine be in the strong possible position , include militarily . it be also essential for we to speed up our help and support as quickly as possible . I understand that the ukrainian defence industrial base have the capacity to increase the production of weapon and equipment . can we do more to get funding to it to ensure that that happen ? our current problem be that our own industrial base can not gear up quickly enough . my hon . friend have ask an excellent question about Ukraine ' s industrial base . drone technology , for instance , be improve apace around the world , and the country lead that technology be Ukraine . we have much to learn . we have sign the 100 - year partnership , and capacity and capability be part of that partnership , which will please my hon . friend , but he be right to say that we can not wait ; we have to act now . that be what be be discuss when the Defence Secretary be in Ukraine a short time ago , and it be what I be discuss with Ukraine a few week ago . so yes , we will accelerate the way in which our industry work together , and will allocate the fund that be necessary . the whole House will want to wish the right hon . Gentleman , and the Prime Minister , a strong and successful visit later this week . he will be able to agree with the President about the importance of all european member of NATO step up and play their part in the significant increase in defence expenditure that we all now need to see , while of course never forget what General Mattis have say about the important part of the mix that development constitute in national defence . however , I hope there will be no compromise in Washington on the fact of the matter , namely that a p5 member of the United Nations invade its neighbour in an act that we think have go out with the last century , have bomb and destroy its infrastructure , and have butcher and murder its citizen . the right hon . Gentleman have remind the House of the seriousness , and the responsibility , that we have as permanent member of the United Nations Security Council . that seriousness be underpin by the UN Charter , which Russia breach , and in do so it have make a serious hole in the way the Security Council work . let we get beyond that ; but if we be to do so , Russia should withdraw and should come to the table with the central issue of peace and make amend at its heart . keep ourselves safe here mean show Putin that we have the resolve and the resource to defeat he , as indeed we have . in european NATO our combined gdp be about $ 24 . 5 trillion , and the gdp of the United States be $ 27 trillion , while Russia ' s be just $ 2 trillion . we have more resource , and convert they into more fighting force , tank , gun and drone be key , but we can go far . russian central bank asset hold by ourselves and our ally amount to more than £ 200 billion , include £ 170 billion in Belgium and £ 26 billion here , and Putin could use those reserve in the future to rebuild his armed force . can the Foreign Secretary assure I that he be do everything he can to convince our ally of the need to seize those asset to keep we safe and to fund Ukraine ? my hon . Friend ask a good question . if we be serious about the responsibility of burden share across Europe and , indeed , across G7 nation at this time , one of the issue on the table be move from freeze asset to seize those asset . it be a live discussion . there be other way to find the fund , and that be a topic of discussion in Munich and at the G7 , but we must now move from discussion to action . I will resist the temptation to ask the Foreign Secretary if he share my feeling of disgust at the spectacle of the leader of the free world shower praise and admiration on the killer in the Kremlin . when he speak to his counterpart , will he try to impress on they that the reason why George Kennan ' s containment policy , to which he rightly refer , be so successful in prevent the cold war from turn into the third world war be that contentious territory be not demilitarise and leave undefended ? it work in the case of West Germany , and it will have to be the only way that western Ukraine can equally be secure for the future . the containment strategy to which the right hon . Gentleman refer run right through the Reagan year and beyond . in a sense , it be the conventional way to understand peace through strength , and we would do well to keep it at the front of our mind in the day and week ahead . do my right hon . friend agree that the international community must not allow the sovereign nation of Ukraine to be trade like a chess piece by powerful nation , particularly after its brave defence of freedom and the international rule - base system for itself and the wide world ? if we fail , we risk another " peace in our time " moment that would soon or later endanger other country and even our own . my hon . friend be right , and we know that Ukrainians feel let down by the Budapest memorandum . they feel brutally let down by the Minsk agreement , and they can not be let down again . we also know that because of the unbelievable ukrainian spirit , they would fight on , with guerrilla warfare if need be . these be the most admirable of people fight for their self - determination , and the United Kingdom will continue to stand with they . the Scottish National party have stand alongside the people of Ukraine in solidarity — not just for the last three year but for the last 10 year , follow Putin ' s invasion of Crimea . I will not invite the Foreign Secretary to agree with I on this in the Chamber , but I be sure he think that President Trump ' s remark about Zelensky be a dictator be beyond repulsive . surely we all know that no deal can be make with Vladimir Putin that he will not break . do the Foreign Secretary agree ? the right hon . Gentleman have a point . Russia and Putin have be clear about the term that they want for peace , which have often include the removal of 14 of NATO ' s 32 member . that be unacceptable . we have see Finland and Sweden join recently . the precondition for talk have be that Ukraine should effectively give up the territory now occupy by Russia . it seem to I that such demand show utter contempt for ukrainian territorial integrity . the Russians will not be serious about discussion until they reconsider the criterion that we hear once again from Lavrov last week . a constituent of mine and her son move to this country under the Homes for Ukraine scheme . she have a very stable job here and her son be do a - level at the good math school in London , but she be worried that her 18 - month visa extension will expire in the middle of her son ' s exam . what conversation be the Foreign Secretary ' s Department have with the Home Office to ensure that young Ukrainians who move here through no fault of their own do not have their education disrupt , but can build a life for themselves ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for put on the record the tremendous support the british people have give to ukrainian refugee . it allow I to say that there be still a war , and there be still a need for those people to seek sanctuary in our country . it be my assessment that Putin be not show a serious willingness to negotiate , and it may be that negotiation go on for some time . so I want to reassure her constituent that we be of course in close dialogue with my right hon . friend the Home Secretary . some of we be old enough to remember Hungary in 1956 and some of we be old enough to remember Czechoslovakia in 1968 . none of we want to see Ukraine sacrifice on the same altar of expediency . when the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister go to Washington , they will know that they will carry with they the good wish of — almost — all of this House . Ukraine be not for sale , and it can never be for sale ; this be not a transaction . the United Kingdom will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take . I be very grateful to the right hon . gentleman for remind we of the history . he will know that , in the 20th century , to the east it be only the russo - japanese war that stop Russia ' s imperial ambition , to the south it be the war in Crimea , and of course to the west it be the containment strategy to which I have refer and NATO . this history be our good adviser as we approach the matter of peace . I start by commend the people of Ukraine for resist the murderous dictator Vladimir Putin for as long as they have . they be hero . almost every member of this House know that , if we fold in our support of Ukraine now and give Russia what it want , Vladimir Putin will only come back for more . our national security be at stake . do the Foreign Secretary agree that it be in everyone ' s interest — Britain ' s , Europe ' s and America ' s — to ensure that any potential peace deal include Ukraine at the table ? " nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine " be hear loudly of course from President Zelensky , but all Europeans recognise it . I be pleased that Secretary of State Rubio , in my conversation with he , and indeed General Kellogg have both underline the importance of Ukraine be at the table . I very warmly welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement . although he perhaps can not use the language I be about to use , I hope that when the Prime Minister and he meet Putin ' s appeaser in the White House later this week , he will remind he that if we have a special relationship — and the Foreign Secretary keep refer to a special relationship — it have to be base on truth , respect for democracy , respect for justice and respect for international law . in the end , the United States be leader of the free world . President Trump have an election in which 77 million people vote for he and he hold both Houses on the Hill , and as we would expect , he be of course buoy up — as , indeed , be my party — by such a democratic mandate . we will have conversation with he over the come day on a range of issue . friend agree and can sometimes disagree , but I think it be definitely the case that we support his desire for bring this horrendous war to an end . we will now play our part in Europe to ensure that we raise defence spending and that Europe step up to the necessary burden share . President Trump ' s analysis of the huge problem in the Indo - Pacific be correct , and we must recognise that successive US president have be clear about their responsibility in relation to the Indo - Pacific . despite the astonishing 10 day we have have , and we should be under no illusion that they have be astonishing , there have be reassurance to be find in the Government ' s steadfast commitment to Ukraine and the leadership they have be show . the Foreign Secretary allude early to Vladimir Putin ' s penchant for lie : he lie about the invasion ; he lie about Ukraine ' s territorial integrity ; he lie about the rule of war ; and he abduct thousand of ukrainian child . do my right hon . friend agree that not only should Ukraine be at the centre of the negotiation , but that we should be clear - eyed about the character of the man we be deal with ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for mention the child who have be abduct . on the past two occasion I have be in Ukraine , I have meet child who be viciously take from their home . there be an attempt to effectively brainwash they from their history . we be support organisation that seek to get those child back and reunite they with their family . I also launch a child in care initiative . I be very pleased to be with Madam Zelensky , when I be last in Ukraine , support vulnerable child with their foster family . do the Foreign Secretary agree that the 2 . 5 % of GDP ship have now sail , and that we and our ally have to find the resource to spend 3 % within a recognisable timeframe ? when he be in Washington this week , will he discuss with his interlocuter how the billion of pound he propose to give Mauritius for take on the Chagos Islands could be well serve by be devote to build and re - equip our armed force ? ten year ago , there be just four country meet the 2 % commitment . today , that have rise to 23 . right across the alliance , country be understand that they have to do more . we will set out how we will do more very , very shortly . as the matter today be Ukraine , the right hon . Gentleman will forgive I but I will not discuss issue to do with the British Indian Ocean Territory . I be sure he will have an occasion to do so at oral question tomorrow . just over three year ago , I fly the penultimate UK mission into Kyiv to deliver materiel essential to the defence of Ukraine ahead of the illegal full - scale russian invasion . since then , Ukraine have be defend european security , the UN charter and liberal democracy against Putin ' s assault on those share interest , and , in the word of the declaration of independence , the " unalienable right " of " life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness . " do the Foreign Secretary agree that to free Ukraine from Putin ' s tyranny and imperialist ambition , and to ensure the word of the declaration of independence be realise for all , UK leadership in the co - ordination of european and transatlantic ally be essential ? yes , yes , yes , I say to my hon . friend . I think all of we pay tribute to our armed force and to his work in our armed force . it be because of that work over so many year — that sacrifice — that I think the spirit of this country guide we to stand solidly with Ukraine on a cross - party basis . he be right to pray in aid those word that underpin our value , and indeed global value as underpin in the UN charter . that be what we be fight for and we will not give up . do the Secretary of State regret recant the view he originally express in assess Trump ? when the time be right — it be certainly not any time now — can I urge he to consider follow the example of Archbishop Cranmer by plunge the offend hand first into the flame ? er — [ Laughter . ] this be a serious debate and a serious discussion . as I have say , that is , in a sense , old news ; there be so much news before we , and so much history to be forge , which require diplomacy and friendship and we understand who the real threat be . those real threat be the autocracy of the world , which could do tremendous damage over the come year . I have always recognise that . as have be replicate across the country , people in Coatbridge and Bellshill have open their door to those force from their home by Putin ' s illegal attack . public authority have also step up : North Lanarkshire council have provide home and support integration for more than 200 ukrainian family at the High Coats tower in my constituency , and have be recognise nationally for help to deliver stability and belong . as we continue to push for a just peace , and follow the question from my hon . friend the Member for Hampstead and Highgate ( Tulip Siddiq ) , will my right hon . friend commit to work with the Home Secretary , devolve Governments and other key stakeholder to ensure safe harbour for the family so cruelly and viciously target by Putin ' s barbarism ? I assure my hon . friend that that will be the case . I continue to work closely with the Home Secretary . there have be a tremendous outpouring of support across this country , which I recognise , and have see at work in Scotland , too . I welcome the robust statement from the Secretary of State today and the way he have stand by Ukraine and commit the UK to stand by Ukraine . I hope he will convey the same message to President Trump : that by give into Putin , we jeopardise peace not only in Ukraine but across the whole of Europe . first , what practical step can he take , apart from the assurance he have give the House today , to ensure that Ukraine ' s interest be reflect in any negotiation ? secondly , give the stretch state of our own armed force , what long - term security commitment can we give to Ukraine ? we have commit £ 3 billion in support to Ukraine for as long as it last . the Ukrainians ask for more munition , and we support they ; they ask for particular missile capability , and we support they . we will continue to support they because this war be be wage on the frontline ; it be a war of attrition . notwithstanding any discussion or talk , we need to be there with the Ukrainians , and I guarantee to the right hon . Gentleman that we will continue to do that . I be present at the Munich security conference where it feel like the world change around we , and the consequence could not be more serious . I welcome our Government ' s announcement today of fresh sanction on Russia . give the absence of some on the Opposition Benches , I be sure the whole House will agree that it be President Putin , and not President Zelensky , who be the dictator . do the Foreign Secretary agree that this be indeed a once - in - a - generation moment , and that the future of our security in the UK be bind up in Ukraine ' s security and in the need to do what it take to face down the aggression of Putin ' s Russia ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : because of the history of Russia and the former Soviet Union , we understand deeply that our own future be bind up in Putin ' s ambition . we also understand , by the way , that there be many valiant people resist Putin in Russia ; I meet Mrs Navalny at the Munich security conference . our fight be not with the russian people — it be to support the russian people . our fight be with Vladimir Putin . when Putin invade , he think it would be a matter of week . three year on , Ukraine be still stand . I be proud of how we as a House and as a nation stand up for Ukraine . that include many of my constituent , for which I commend they . my right hon . friend the shadow Foreign Secretary ask about sanction , but I do not hear an answer from the Foreign Secretary , so he perhaps he can shed some light . when the Prime Minister meet President Trump , will he raise the issue of new sanction , which I would welcome ? will we urge the US to follow suit ? we continue to discuss sanction with all our partner . I discuss that with G7 partner , include Secretary of State Rubio . we have impose sanction on more than 2 , 100 individual and entity — the most wide - range sanction impose on any major economy . we believe that maximum pressure be require at this time . the United States have indicate that it would be willing to impose further sanction on Russia . that issue remain under discussion . I welcome the important statement from the Foreign Secretary and the comment from the shadow Foreign Secretary . this entire House should be unite in our support for Ukraine . as other have say , it be rather a shame that one party have not show up . ukrainian who have come to the UK since the war have make such an important contribution to our country . I meet Olha , a Ukrainian Teessider , over the weekend . she share with I that many Ukrainians face great uncertainty , partly because they be unable to access work and study because of the lack of a ukrainian GCSE . will the Foreign Secretary discuss this issue with the Department for Education to ensure that Ukrainians be able to access study and work ? will he recognise at the Dispatch Box the importance of the contribution that Ukrainians have make to our country ? there have be a history between we and Ukrainians , as they be make a contribution across Europe and in our country long before this war begin . my hon . friend make a very good point about the ukrainian language . I have admire many Ukrainians for the way that they have quickly learn the english language . I will take his recommendation to the Education Secretary . I join other in commend the ukrainian people for their bravery in the face of russian aggression , and the Government ' s steadfast support for the nation ' s sovereignty . the Foreign Secretary refer in his statement to the need for european nation to contribute more to future security guarantee for the ukrainian people . do he envisage more bilateral and multilateral agreement between european ally play a part in that endeavour , much in the vein of the Lancaster House treaty or , latterly , the Trinity House agreement ? the hon . Gentleman be right that the UK have seek to forge strong relationship with key partner across Europe . once the new Government be form in Germany , we look forward to sign an update Lancaster House treaty with our german friend . he be right that , bilaterally , that be important . I believe that NATO be the central underpinning of european security , but we need to work together across Europe to increase our industrial defence capability , and we need to find more fund to increase our defence spending right across the european family . he will hear more about that in the come week and month . the Foreign Secretary be right that if Russia be serious about a last peace , it must respect Ukraine ' s sovereignty , but give that it have show absolutely no sign of do that , will he reiterate that we will stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine no matter what ? will he far reiterate , even for the member who have not choose to be here for this statement , that this country do not appease fascist but oppose they ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . that be why , since February 2022 , the United Kingdom ' s total military , economic and humanitarian support for Ukraine have amount to £ 12 . 8 billion . that be our commitment to Ukraine so far , and that commitment will continue . I be proud that more than 600 Ukrainians have be host in my constituency through the Homes for Ukraine programme . three year on , my constituent stand with Ukraine . they know that Ukraine have protect Europe ' s frontline for three year . they know that Ukraine ' s fight be one that affect we all , and that if Ukraine lose , Europe lose , and they know that Ukrainians be fight for the value of our forebear : the british value of democracy and freedom . will the Foreign Secretary commit to stand by Ukraine steadfast , even when other do not ? in his meeting in Washington tomorrow , will he ensure that he point out the folly and the danger of the US Administration ' s new approach to Russia ? the UK , of course , support the US - lead effort to get a last peace in Ukraine that deter Russia from future aggression and ensure that Ukraine be at the table as we negotiate that peace . that be the issue that we will be discuss with President Trump , just as President Macron be discuss that issue today . I be quite sure that our assessment that Putin be not ready , really , to negotiate on proper term stand , but I admire the effort to bring that about . of course , the US play a central role in achieve that . today , we pay tribute to the people of Ukraine fight not only for their own freedom but for the freedom of all Europe . the Foreign Secretary say that we must learn from history . over 80 year ago in Munich , this country and other talk away the future of Czechoslovakia without it be there and strip it of its vital resource ; we all know the tragic consequence . today , there can be no peace without Ukraine , and there can be no endure peace without the security that this country and other NATO ally can give to it . my hon . friend put his remark well . I agree with he . I can barely believe that I have get to say this to the Foreign Secretary , but he will be unaware that in past moment the United States have just vote against the UN resolution condemn russian aggression in Ukraine . I understand fully the position that the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister be in and the approach that they have get to take in Washington this week , but we know that President Trump listen to the people who last speak to he . can I therefore ask the Foreign Secretary to outline two important point ? first , european military asset — not NATO asset — be often use to support american operation in the Indo - Pacific , and the american military really appreciate how we put our shoulder to the wheel . it be not the Americans only ever support Europe ; we also help the Americans . secondly , last week , I and several hon . member and noble member be at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Brussels , where it be make clear that what will be present at the Hague summit be what be actually need for european defence rather than just GDP target . may I also ask the Foreign Secretary to advise the Prime Minister that it will be important that he take a position with the President of the United States that if those demand add up to more than 2 . 53 % of GDP , our country will set itself on a path , within the time target , to achieve those ? order . can I remind member that if we be to get everybody in , short question — and shortish answer , please — would be helpful ? the right hon . Gentleman mention the Indo - Pacific , and it be important that we remember AUKUS and our critical partnership with Australia and the United States in relation to that . he quite rightly mention defence spending , on which much have be say in this Chamber — and much , I be sure , will be say when we go to the United States . I thank the Foreign Secretary for a strong statement . he say that Ukraine ' s security be our security . do he agree that this be a fight for democracy where we need to tackle misinformation both at home and abroad , and where we need to maintain our steadfast commitment to Ukraine ' s sovereignty ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for mention that , because there be hybrid warfare take place as we speak . country such as Moldova be at the forefront of it , with sabotage and constant attack on its infrastructure and its internet service . this be hybrid warfare , and of course it be take place against our own country , so he be absolutely right : this be not just a hard war and a hot war ; it be a hybrid war , and we have to be vigilant . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement . it be indeed important that we have cross - party support across this House , stand in solidarity with Ukraine and be clear that Ukraine must be front and centre of the peace talk that must take place , but it be deeply disturbing to hear some of the comment from President Trump , include the absurd claim that Zelensky be a dictator and the ridiculous suggestion that Ukraine start the war . therefore , when the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister go to Washington later this week , will they make it clear to President Trump that Ukraine must be at the centre of these peace talk and that the ukrainian people have an absolute right to self - determination ? yes . there must be no negotiation about Ukraine without Ukraine . as I have say , we have see very little sign that Putin be abandon his goal of subjugate Ukraine . Russia have continue to escalate this war , include through deploy democratic People ' s Republic of Korea troop and through daily barbaric attack on innocent ukrainian civilian and their infrastructure and energy supply . on Saturday , I join ukrainian family and resident in Bishop ' s Stortford to remember those who have lose their life and suffer throughout this conflict , ahead of the third anniversary . this be a reminder that in my constituency and across the country , we stand firmly with the ukrainian people . as we mark the third anniversary , will the Foreign Secretary reiterate to the ukrainian family who have find safety in my constituency , and indeed to all ukrainian people , that this Government will continue to advocate for Ukraine ' s sovereignty and for it to be give a seat at the table right at the heart of any future negotiation ? I know my hon . friend ' s constituency well , and I be very pleased to give his constituent that affirmation . no Member of this House should be in any doubt as to who the aggressor be in this situation , who the dictator be , or who start this war . no one should give cover to the dictator who start this war . the Prime Minister have say that , if there be peace , he anticipate a post - peace situation where there will be british troop on the ground in Ukraine , with what he term " a US backstop " . do the Foreign Secretary agree that the prospect of a US backstop would be greatly enhance if the european nation begin more thoroughly to shoulder the financial burden that have be shirk in recent year ? yes , I do . there be complacency in the post - cold war period across the european family , and at this Dispatch Box we have lament the fact that the United Kingdom have fall to 2 . 3 % of gdp , so the hon . and learn Gentleman be right . this be the time to step up and to demonstrate peace with strength , and the baltic nation be very clear about the responsibility at this time . like the Foreign Secretary , I be incredibly proud of the role that the UK have play in support Ukraine , and especially proud of the role that my constituent have play in welcome Ukrainians into their home and into our community , but if we be to stop Putin , Britain must get real on defence . do the Foreign Secretary agree that we must now urgently rearm , well beyond the exist 2 . 5 % target , so that , with our european ally , we can protect our precious democracy ? as I say , we will set out further defence spending shortly . NATO country border Russia be understandably step up their defence without wait for other to take action . will the Foreign Secretary update the House on the discussion he have have with those country ? I meet the polish Foreign Minister at the Munich security conference and baltic colleague to discuss those issue . the hon . member be absolutely right that those country have be aware of the threat for some time . her question allow I to say that when we talk about security guarantee for Ukraine , it be important to recognise NATO ' s eastern flank . when it come to the effort to get US security guarantee , many country on that flank would have to know that they be support . that be why the US backstop be so important . last week , along with other member of this House , I meet ukrainian parliamentarian at the Organisation for Security and Co - operation in Europe in Vienna . the opposition mps from Ukraine make it clear that they do not support Donald Trump ' s call for an election in Ukraine while they be defend against russian aggression . in his conversation with the US Administration this week , will the Foreign Secretary make it clear that there be only one dictator in this conflict , and his name be Vladimir Putin ? yes , of course . on the third anniversary of Putin ' s brutal full - scale invasion of Ukraine , I welcome the United Nations have just pass a resolution condemn russian aggression in Ukraine . however , in the last 15 minute — this will shock the House — it be oppose by Russia and the United States . it be say in the press that " this isn ' t appeasement by Trump . it ' s a direct stab in the back . " will the Foreign Secretary condemn what have just happen in the United Nations , where the United States have join Russia in not sign up to the resolution condemn russian aggression in Ukraine ? we be proud to have co - sponsor the General Assembly resolution , propose by Ukraine , in support of a just and last peace in Ukraine . it be in line with the UN charter . the UN vote for it , and we will stand forever with Ukraine . yesterday , Ukrainians in Welwyn Hatfield come together in sober recognition of the third anniversary of the russian invasion . I pay tribute to they for their bravery and resilience , and for how they be go about rebuild their life as valuable member of our community . I tell they that in this House , I would speak the truth , and stand up for they as well I could . do the Foreign Secretary agree that we need to say loud and clear from the Dispatch Box that one person be the aggressor , one person be responsible for the death and destruction , and — we should say it emphatically — one person start this war , and his name be Vladimir Putin ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . when I be in Kyiv , I see that close to President Zelensky ' s office be an apartment block that be blow up a few week ago . a couple asleep in their bed be kill . that be the awfulness of this war . of course , my hon . friend will recall that when the Prime Minister visit , Putin seek to fire missile into Ukraine . it be grim and unbelievable brutality , and of course we must continue to stand up to it . in response to the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , the Foreign Secretary say that Russia do not respect the territorial integrity of Ukraine . on his comment on the Ukraine defence contact group , the US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth say that the US want to see " a sovereign and prosperous Ukraine " , but give the news that we have just hear about the UN resolution , how confident be the Foreign Secretary that the US will respect the territorial integrity of Ukraine ? I be very pleased that the US have attempt to bring this horrendous war to an end . that do require conversation with Russia . those be hard conversation , and I be not sure that the Russians be ready to properly negotiate , but I admire the attempt to try . it be important that Ukraine be at the table ; it be important that Europe step up with burden - sharing and increase its defence . those be issue that we will discuss with President Trump in the come day . online propaganda from the Kremlin have become a disturbing reality . social medium , especially platform such as Facebook and X , have be flood with the claim that Ukraine be solely responsible for the war — it be extraordinary . what measure be be take to combat the propaganda be spread by government to blame the ukrainian people for the conflict ? those be important issue that I know preoccupy my hon . friend in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology . they be look far at those issue and at what more we can do . the Prime Minister say this morning that Russia do not hold all the card . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s announcement of further sanction . will he work at national and international level to ensure that President Putin do not get a new hand that allow he to proceed with bluff , bluster and bullying that could bring the ukrainian people to their knee — something that we have not see to date ? will he assure the House that the Government stand resolutely with the people of Ukraine ? the hon . Gentleman be right . that be why I meet G7 Foreign Ministers , and we issue a joint statement on Ukraine 10 day ago . it be why I discuss this issue at the G20 in South Africa last week . I be proud of the work of our diplomat in the UN General Assembly today , where many country have come together in support of Ukraine , with a resolution that have to be pass . today of all day , we must remember that over 1 million people have be kill or wound in Ukraine since the illegal invasion . I have just come from talk to a group of individual who support ukrainian veteran . although they welcome the medical expertise that the UK have provide in ukrainian military hospital , there be also thousand of civilian casualty , so they ask that the UK provide medical expertise in civilian hospital as well . will the Foreign Secretary look into whether the UK can provide that support too ? I be very pleased about the decision that I and the Defence Secretary have make to support ukrainian armed force at this time with medical support . I be happy to look at the issue face civilian , which of course we discuss in a pan - european context . the hon . Lady be right to raise those issue . surely it can not be right to leave those with no real care or concern for Europe ' s wellbee the sole voice in negotiate the future of Ukraine — and by extension the future of Europe . will the Foreign Secretary convey , in his discussion with President Trump , the point that Ukraine must be present at the table when negotiation take place , and will he convey the disgust of this House at the fact that the US vote alongside North Korea and Russia against the ukrainian resolution at the UN today ? we have be clear : nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine . the Ukrainians must have a seat at the table ; it be their destiny that be in the mix in any discussion that take place . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s strong word , commitment , strength and fortitude . I will always welcome the end to war , but I be unable to forget the mass murder of ukrainian civilian and prisoner of war by russian armed force during the fight for and occupation of the city of Bucha three day after the invasion start . to remind the House , girl as young as eight and woman as old as 80 be rape ; three baptist church pastor be murder ; and nine child under the age of 18 be murder . they be all put into a basement , have petrol pour over they and be burn alive . I and the people I represent want any deal to include the accountability of those who commit those dreadful , dreadful war crime , and so many other that be still unknown . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for remind we of the massacre at Bucha . I have the privilege of visit Bucha and spend time with the community there — with family , victim and love one . the massacre be an horrendous act . it be criminal , barbaric and inhumane . he be right that we in this country have lead on the issue of justice and accountability , and we will not let that go . Breakfast Clubs : early adopter with permission , I will make a statement update the House on the Government ' s work to deliver free breakfast club and give every child the good start in life . this be a Government who act on their principle , deliver on their promise and drive the change that the country need — change that be feel in our village , town and city ; change that will help family with the cost of living ; and change that lift the life chance of our child across the country . change begin and the big difference can be make during those early year of life , and on into primary school , when the possibility still stretch out . our action be urgent . far too many child grow up in this country be hold back by their background and deny the opportunity to go on to live happy and healthy life , with the bad luck of a tough start weigh down their life chance . I will not stand by while those child be let down , because I believe that background should not mean destiny . every single child deserve the very good start in life . to achieve and thrive at school be the right of all child . our manifesto outline the action a Labour Government would take , and now , not yet eight month on from the election , we be deliver change in early year , change in primary school and change in our country . I be delighted to update the House today that I have confirm more than 750 school as early adopter of our free breakfast club scheme . that be a promise make , and a promise keep . I will always act to protect work family ' livelihood for child and their parent . it be for they that we be work tirelessly to deliver change , and it be for they that we will introduce free breakfast club in every primary school in this country . that be what we say we would do in our manifesto , and it be exactly what we be do now . evidence show why this matter so much . when school introduce breakfast club , behaviour improve , attendance increase and attainment grow . that be no surprise when we be give child the gift of a calm , welcome start to the day , fill with friend , fun and food . it be the foundation for success that every child need . this be about parent as well as child . our new breakfast club will save family up to £ 450 a year , put money directly back into parent ' pocket . that be why we be move ahead with such energy and urgency , for child and for parent . we be work to cement the club in legislation through the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . thousand of school have apply to take part — an indication of overwhelming demand , and a spur to act . from this April , free breakfast club will begin to reach more than 180 , 000 child , and 70 , 000 pupil from school in the most deprived part of the country will be able to take part . our early adopter school be draw from all kind of place : city and village , north and south , east and west , affluent area and more disadvantaged community , big school and small school , mainstream school and special school for child with special educational need and disability . they include school that have have a club before and those that have not ; school in which parent have have to pay for breakfast club in the past ; and school in which place be limited . that variety be key . it give we a representative sample , so we can see what work , when , where , why and how , guide by the good evidence . that be how we will maximise the impact of the full roll - out , bring the benefit to child across the entire country . we be take a new approach — the challenge we face demand it . breakfast club be one part , but we be go far and deliver more change for child . we be a mission - lead Government , bring meaningful change that be feel in our town , our city , and our community , and I be proud to be lead our mission across Government to break down the barrier to opportunity . in December the Prime Minister unveil our plan for change , and within that plan lie a vital milestone : a record proportion of child start school , ready to learn . that be crucial to close the opportunity gap ; all child arrive at school , ready to achieve and to thrive get right to the heart of what it mean to have the very good start in life . I believe that deliver the good start in life be about family — parent and child . breakfast club be one piece of the puzzle , but our action start early in life , with great early education and childcare . it be something that I have spend many year in this House fight for , but that our childcare system have deny family . there be area underserve with childcare place yet overwhelm with demand ; additional hour be offer nationally , but they be unavailable to family locally . the Opposition ' s failure to keep their promise be the reason their party suffer such an emphatic defeat at the last election . a promise make but not act on be not a promise at all , and a pledge without a plan to deliver be meaningless . that be why this Government be commit to deliver the entitlement that parent be promise before the last election . as a result of this Government ' s hard work in make that pledge a reality , family can now access 15 hour of government - fund childcare a week from when their child be nine month old . from September , that will increase to 30 hour a week , match the offer for three and four - year - old . this Government have match the pledge with a plan — a promise now back by funding . in the next financial year alone , we will invest more than £ 8 billion in early year entitlement , an increase of more than £ 2 billion . on top of that be a new £ 75 million expansion grant to support the sector to provide the extra place and staff need . we will use those 30 hour a week to combine childcare with great early education , and to give child the very good start in life . I want to double down on support for those child who need it most , in the area that need it most . that be why I introduce the big ever uplift to the early year pupil premium . Childcare deliver for parent too . just like breakfast club , the entitlement give parent power , choice and freedom over their life , enable they to go back to work if that be what they want to do — work choice for parent ; life chance for child . these be the step we be take and the promise we be keep to support family . I be determined to see the change through , but it be not a shot in the dark . the value of give child the good start in life , and the power of spread breakfast club across the country , be as clear as day and there for all to see if we know where to look . on the northern edge of St Helens sit Carr Mill primary school . child at Carr Mill can come in before the school day start and eat breakfast with their friend in the school bistro . when they reach year 5 , they be invite to become bistro leader . those young leader help their peer to get a good breakfast , but they also learn about responsibility , care for their classmate , and what it mean to be part of a community . parent see the change in their child , who be more confident and eager to go to school in the morning , and the young one look up to the bistro leader . it be not just the breakfast ; it be the club too — help child to settle , show they that they belong in school , get they ready to learn , and shape not just the student of today but the citizen of tomorrow . it set child up for success in school and in life , because that wide goal we be chase of give every child the good start in life mean give they the good start to their school day , each and every day , week after week , year after year . that be how we be break the link between background and success , and how we be deliver the change that parent vote for . that be how we be drive the change that the child of this country deserve . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of the statement . the previous Government substantially expand access to breakfast club in primary and secondary school , and crate the holiday activity and food programme . the national school breakfast programme have be run since 2018 , and 85 % of school now have a breakfast club , with one in eight have a taxpayer - fund breakfast club . in March 2023 , the previous Government announce £ 289 million for the national wraparound childcare funding programme , some of which be be use to fund breakfast club . that be part of a much wide expansion of free childcare that see spending on entitlement to free childcare more than double in real term between 2010 and 2024 . I be strike by the comment make by Mark Russell from the Children ' s Society during the evidence session for the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . give the resource constraint , he say taxpayer money should be focus on roll out free breakfast to a great number of deprive secondary school , rather than provide a universal offer in primary school . he say : " I would like to see secondary school child help , and if the pot be limited , I would probably step back from universality and provide for those most in need . " – – [ Official Report , Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Public Bill Committee , 21 January 2025 ; c . 55 , Q122 . ] with that in mind , I want to draw attention to the uncertainty create by the Government ' s refusal to commit to fund the exist free breakfast provision in secondary school beyond next year , and likewise the holiday activity and food programme . a number of charity have call for Ministers to guarantee that funding beyond next year , and I join they in ask the Secretary of State to give that guarantee . get rid of the exist free breakfast would mean a cut in provision for deprive child at secondary school , so will the Secretary of State guarantee to continue they ? accord to a report by the Institute for Fiscal Studies last year : " base on the experience of the national school breakfast programme , the estimate annual cost today would be around £ 55 per pupil participate for food - only provision and double that ( around £ 110 ) for a ' traditional ' before - school breakfast club . labour ' s manifesto offer £ 315 million overall in 2028 ; this could be enough to fund all primary school pupil under a food - only model , or 60 % of pupil if the party plump for a traditional breakfast club with some childcare element . " will the Secretary of State respond to that point make by the IFS ? do the Government plan food - only provision ? if not , how do she plan to close that funding gap ? Paul Bertram , headteacher at Buxworth primary school in Derbyshire , tell Schools Week that he have to pull out of the pilot scheme as it leave he with a £ 9 , 000 funding shortfall . the charity Magic Breakfast say : " if it be expect that 100 per cent of people can access a traditional breakfast club setting , with the appropriate staffing , then the Government be many , many million away from the budget that we would expect that would require . " will the Secretary of State say how many school apply to be part of the pilot , but subsequently pull out ? a number of journalist have ask that question . how many of the school choose to take part in the pilot already have a breakfast club , and how many already have a free breakfast club ? look at the first 100 on the list , 71 have a breakfast club and 13 have a free breakfast club , but what be the number overall ? if pupil need to have a one - to - one teaching assistant , how will fund for that work ? minister say that the policy " will save parent up to £ 450 a year " . the Secretary of State say that again today , but Ministers use to use a figure of £ 400 . to give £ 450 to all 4 . 5 million pupil in primary school would cost over £ 2 billion a year . in contrast , the pilot will cost £ 33 million . labour ' s manifesto say the programme will spend £ 315 million by 2028 , which would mean a spend of £ 70 per primary school child , not £ 450 . will the Secretary of State explain the discrepancy between the plan spend and the much large benefit that minister be claim ? parent on low wage be bear the brunt of the £ 25 billion increase in national insurance ; as the Office for Budget Responsibility and the IFS have point out , that increase will directly hit wage , which even the Chancellor have now acknowledge . the big loser from that tax increase be those earn less than £ 15 , 000 a year . People who be among those most affect by the £ 25 billion tax increase may not feel well off from the £ 315 million of plan spending , so it be vital that we be clear about what minister be really claim and on what basis . I mention that 85 % of school already have a breakfast club . the new requirement to offer free school breakfast in all primary school will interact with that exist provision in different way . many school breakfast club currently run for an hour on a pay - for basis , and I hope most will continue to provide at least the period they be provide now . however , if the breakfast club be provide for , say , an hour or more , the school will have to charge for the first 30 minute of that hour , but not for the final 30 minute , which be likely to give rise to considerable complexity . will Ministers agree to report on the length of time that club be run in these school , and on any reduction that this change may inadvertently bring about ? Taxpayer - fund breakfast for those who really need they be helpful , but there be a number of question about Ministers ' plan and their claim about the scheme , so I look forward to the Secretary of State ' s answer . the shadow Minister ask a number of question , but at no point do he welcome the massive investment and the benefit that this provision will bring to child across our country , include in his own constituency — not a word of support . I hope when the breakfast club in his constituency open , he might take time to visit that school and see the massive benefit be deliver to child and family . before I respond to the number of detailed question that the hon . Gentleman ask , I note once again how disappointing it be that the Conservatives vote to block the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . let we remind ourselves what that would have mean . it would have completely stop the roll - out of free breakfast club we be announce today ; they will be roll out across England subject to the progress of the Bill . it would have stop we limit the number of brand uniform item that school can demand , which again will save family hundred of pound at a time when we know that they be under real pressure . most shamefully of all , the hon . Gentleman know full well that it would have stop dead some of the most far - reach child protection measure in a generation , just so that the Conservatives could grab a cheap headline . the hon . Gentleman talk about the national school breakfast programme and the investment there . that programme be an online platform from which school can order food . it cover 75 % of food only ; it do not cover wide cost , and school be require to contribute the remain 25 % , so there be a significant difference in what we be set out . one in seven of the school in the pilot scheme that we be announce today have no before - school provision . the rest have a mix of pay - for provision or , in many case , school breakfast club where cap be in place and the number be limited . the breakfast club we be introduce will be free and available to every child and every parent who seek to take they up . that be why it be estimate that parent will save £ 450 a year . when it come to evidence of the roll - out , the hon . Gentleman have say on many occasion that he be interested in evidence - base policymaking . the evidence be very clear that the impact be great at primary school level , and we would think that he would recognise that . the purpose behind the early adopter be not simply to demonstrate to parent the difference that a Labour Government be bring and a real difference to child ' s live ; they also allow we to test really effectively what work ahead of a full national roll - out . that be why we want to work with school leader as part of this programme to ensure that all child be able to benefit from universal free breakfast club across our country , include child with SEND . the Conservatives have no plan for education except preserve the tax break for student in private school , whereas we have a plan to give every child the good start in life . if they be go to spend the next five year defend their record , we will get on and deliver the change that this country vote for . we make a promise to the people of this country , and today we be deliver on the promise we make . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement today . I welcome the news that St Luke ' s Church of England primary school in my constituency will be one of the early adopter of a universal breakfast club under the programme . all too often , child with special educational need and disability be exclude from extracurricular activity , and it be the parent of child with SEND who often find it the hard to access childcare . it be essential that child with SEND have equal access to breakfast club in both mainstream and specialist school . what step be be take to ensure that that be the case , that school have the capacity to provide specialist staff where need and that any additional home - to - school transport cost , which be often essential in enable child with SEND physically to access a breakfast club , will be meet ? some 754 school have be select to take part in the early adopter scheme , of which 704 be mainstream school and 50 be special school and alternative provision setting . that be important , because we want to make sure that all child in time be able to benefit from the roll - out of breakfast club . we will work closely with school and sector expert to develop the programme as we intend to roll it out . I really want to learn through the early adopter school how we can well create a truly universal and inclusive breakfast school provision . I recognise that deliver breakfast club may be particularly challenge for special and alternative provision school . we have invite they to take part in the early adopter scheme so that we can make sure that , as we roll out across the country , include in mainstream school , the need of all child be properly cater for as part of the programme . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . with three in 10 child grow up in poverty , any measure to tackle child hunger be to be welcome to enable they to learn and flourish , so I congratulate the 750 school select as breakfast club early adopter . the learning from those pilot will be absolutely critical as the Government seek to scale up the programme . a number of question that I have previously put to Ministers still stand , and I hope that the Secretary of State will address some of they . many school leader have raise concern about the propose funding rate , which be reportedly around 60p per child per day . if the pilot clearly show that those rate be insufficient , will Ministers commit to review and increase they ? school simply can not afford to make saving elsewhere , such as in teach budget . will Ministers review school food standard to ensure that breakfast be specifically address , as the recent House of Lords report on childhood obesity recommend ? what consideration have be give to how the 30 minute of universal free childcare provision will interact with exist breakfast club provision ? Most commute parent need more than 30 minute of childcare in the morning . the Child Poverty Action Group have highlight that breakfast club will probably secure only around 40 % take - up . the most vulnerable child , especially those in temporary accommodation who travel long distance , may not make it to school in time for breakfast . the Children ' s Society have argue , as have the Liberal Democrats , that where money be scarce , we should target resource at those who most need they . as such , why will the Government not prioritise expand eligibility for free school meal — a hot , healthy meal in the middle of the day when child be guarantee to be in school — so that all child in poverty , whether in primary or secondary , be be feed ? be it not high time that Ministers introduce automatic enrolment into free school meal for all child ? finally , on the Secretary of State ' s childcare announcement , can she confirm how much of that money will go into plug the gap leave by the rise in employer national insurance contribution , which will put significant pressure on provider and push up cost for parent ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her question . turn first to the question of funding , there have sadly be some misunderstanding about the funding rate , so I will set those out for the benefit of the House . in the summer term , funding will be pay in two part : an up - front , one - off payment of £ 500 to cover initial set - up cost and , alongside that , a lump sum payment of £ 1 , 099 to cover fix staffing cost for the summer term . that be in addition to the per pupil funding rate that exist in both mainstream and specialist provision ; of course , rate will be high in special school , recognise the additional need and staffing requirement that exist there . school will receive support to manage the requirement of the scheme , and will be provide with opportunity to learn from one another . on food standard , we always seek to keep all those area under review . we want to make sure that all the food serve in our school be healthy and nutritious , so that child be well fed and ready to learn . the school food statutory guidance , which regulate the food and drink provide in school , already apply to breakfast . we want to ensure that healthy meal be offer as part of breakfast club , and we will continue to keep these area under review . the hon . Lady be right to ask about exist wraparound provision . we expect the two offer to be complementary ; school will be able to provide a pay - for offer alongside the 30 minute of childcare and food through the universal offer . I note her concern about child poverty , and strongly agree that there be a need for further action to tackle the shocking rate of child poverty we see in our country . that be why , together with the Work and Pensions Secretary , we be lead work across Government as part of the child poverty taskforce . we look forward to set out further finding from that work in due course , include to this House . we be consider a range of measure and way in which we can support child out of poverty — the shocking legacy leave behind by the last Conservative Government . the hon . Lady ask about the additional investment go into the sector . the big investment that we be put into the early year pupil premium and the expansion grant will be crucial to provide the support that the sector need to deliver the place and staffing require ahead of September . I look forward to continue to work with she to make sure we get this right . I warmly welcome today ' s announcement of the breakfast club pilot area , include the two school in my constituency , which will make a massive difference to the life of many work family . however , on the subject of breakfast club , as an SEN parent I would like to issue the plea , " Don ' t you forget about I . " too often , SEN parent and their child find that policy move ahead without they , and there be a risk that we could be slightly overlook in this area . what measure have the Secretary of State put in place to make sure that disabled child and those with additional need can fully take part in breakfast club ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this important area . she be right that breakfast club must be fully inclusive and take account of the need of all child , include child with SEND . that be why , as part of this process , we have announce 50 special and AP school that will be take part in the early adopter scheme . they will receive a high funding rate of £ 3 . 23 a pupil , in addition to support for set - up cost and termly payment . I recognise the need to ensure that breakfast club operate in mainstream school can cater to the need of a wide range of child . that be why we be develop a toolkit for provider of wraparound care , include breakfast club , so that the provision that be put in place be inclusive for all child . the Secretary of State make a compelling argument on the merit of breakfast for many of our young child and the benefit that it have for learn . can she say a word or two on two point ? first , will she answer the question be raise in the secondary sector about future funding beyond the agree time period ? secondly , what incentive can she put in place to encourage school to procure foodstuff that be produce locally ? that would give good support to our local food producer and our farmer . I agree with the hon . Gentleman about the importance of support local provider where that be possible and the fantastic contribution of british food and wide produce . I just observe that it be my understanding that his constituency be set to benefit from the early adopter scheme . I hope that he will be able to see the fantastic benefit that it will bring to child and family in his constituency . the national school breakfast programme will continue for the next year , but that cover only 75 % of food . school be require to fund the additional 25 % of cost . our new breakfast club will be about more than just food ; they will be about the wide opportunity that child in primary school will have at the start of the school day , and the cost will cover staffing , delivery and food . I warmly welcome this statement and the firm action that my right hon . friend be take to make sure that we can level the play field and boost attendance and attainment for child in Southampton Itchen and beyond . I be particularly delighted that St John ' s primary and nursery school will get this investment from the Government as part of the early adopter programme . will the Secretary of State detail what conversation she be have about how the monitoring will work , so that the national roll - out can be base on the good evidence ? ahead of perhaps 749 other invitation , may I invite she to visit St John ' s to see the breakfast club in action ? I be delighted to hear about the good news for St John ' s . I be sure that the Minister for Early Education , my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , and I will receive lot of invitation to visit fantastic breakfast club across our country . we will do our good to service those invitation , but with more than 750 , it might be a bit of a stretch . we will try our very good . my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) be right to identify the need to develop learning and understanding about what work across the early adopter . that be why the school take part in this pilot cover a range of setting and serve community with a range of different need — both rural and urban — and of different kind , so that we can ensure a fully representative sample ahead of full roll - out . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for her statement . as a child bring up on free milk and free school meal , I very much welcome and support the Government ' s plan to set up universal breakfast club in all primary school . however , concern be report among headteacher , union and charity that the plan will not be properly fund and will lack the flexibility require to be successful . this weekend , the independent publication Schools Week highlight how some headteacher in primary school , while enthusiastic about the aim , refuse to take part in the early adopter pilot scheme as volunteer school , because only 60p be be provide by the Government per pupil . the budget of school in my constituency of Dewsbury and Batley , as well as those across the country , be already stretch beyond break point . will the Secretary of State therefore confirm that adequate funding for healthy food , as well as the necessary flexibility , will be provide to all primary school for the breakfast club ? will she guarantee that school will not be leave out of pocket ? I be confident that the funding be make available to school will be sufficient to deliver on this programme . the hon . Gentleman quote the daily per pupil funding rate , but alongside that , as I set out early , there will be start - up cost , as well as lump - sum payment to cover the cost of run breakfast club , alongside a high daily funding rate for special school and a high daily funding rate base on the proportion of FSM6 pupil at the school . first , my congratulation go to Pool Hayes primary school in Willenhall for be one of the 750 early adopter . will the Secretary of State outline how the free universal roll - out of breakfast club , alongside cap the number of brand item of uniform and expand funded childcare , will help family in Wolverhampton North East with the cost of living ? I be delighted that my hon . friend ' s constituency be part of the early adopter programme . our breakfast club scheme be all about make sure that child get a great start to their school day — a welcome space that provide they with valuable opportunity to play , learn and socialise . however , as she identify , the measure we be set out to the House today on the early adopter scheme , as well as the measure in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , will also make a big difference to parent . they will put more money back into their pocket by limit the cost of school uniform and provide more support around breakfast club . that be the difference a Labour Government make . I welcome very much the Secretary of State ' s commitment to the scheme . I know it be an England scheme , but we have a similar scheme in Northern Ireland . every one of we as MPs have attend Kellogg ' s event in the House , and we understand the commitment that Kellogg ' s can make . have the Secretary of State consider whether other company could do similar to what Kellogg ' s do in relation to school ? for instance , bakery and those who make jam or marmalade could do something . indeed , we know that the superstore dump their food out or dispose of it within 24 hour . that be good food go to waste . there might be well way . perhaps she can help we to achieve that . I agree with the hon . Gentleman that there be always more that we can do , and I note that many company already involve themselves in important charitable work in this area . he name one company . it would be remiss of I , as a north - east MP , not to give a special plug to Greggs , which do fantastic work in this space , too . alongside the national roll - out of breakfast club that we intend to deliver , we continue to believe that there be an important role for organisation such as Magic Breakfast , Greggs and Kellogg ' s in support school and child . I welcome the introduction of free breakfast club for all primary school , include Robin Hood primary school in Leeds South West and Morley . such club provide £ 450 of saving to parent and extra childcare , and we know that child should not have to start the day hungry . what can the Secretary of State tell the primary school in my constituency about the full roll - out ? when can they expect to see breakfast club in their school ? we intend to deliver the roll - out as soon as possible , because we know it be urgent , and we know the difference it will make to child ' s life . free universal breakfast club will also mean that every primary school child , no matter their circumstance , be well prepared to learn . that be why we believe in that important provision be universal and available to all child . today be an important step forward , and Robin Hood primary school will be an important part of how we develop and understand how to roll out the programme nationally . I agree with the Secretary of State that every single child deserve the good start in life , but if we be honest , we know that not every child have that . this programme will make such a big difference to so many child , include child at Van Gogh primary school , Henry Fawcett primary school and Crawford primary school in my constituency . the Secretary of State be always welcome to come and visit any of those three . we know that this programme will make a big difference for many parent , too . one of the other push behind the free breakfast club be that they be really good for child ' s attainment and attendance . the early adopter start in April . what be the timeline for review they , especially in light of some of the funding concern that other member have raise ? I strongly agree with my hon . friend about the need to ensure that every child have the good start in life . I be grateful for her generous invitation , and I be sure that my hon . friend the Early Education Minister and I will consider it along with , no doubt , a great many other invitation . we intend to test and learn as we go along to ensure that the scheme be be roll out effectively . this be a crucial part of ensure that all child have opportunity at the start of the school day to play , to learn , to socialise and to benefit from that soft start . my hon . friend be right to mention evidence from the Education Endowment Foundation which demonstrate the impact of breakfast club on attendance , attainment and behaviour , affect not just the child who benefit but the whole school community . story of child arrive for lesson hungry be far too common in my constituency and across the country , and the issue be exacerbate by the massive rise in child poverty under the last government . because of the action of this Labour Government , however , my constituency will see pilot in Cornholme junior , infant and nursery school , Scout Road academy , Elland Church of England junior , infant and nursery school , and Luddenden Church of England school . will the Minister confirm that the child poverty strategy , when it be deliver , will build on that and make the scandal of child miss meal a thing of the past ? it be a privilege to co - chair the child poverty taskforce with my right hon . friend the Work and Pensions Secretary . we have hear evidence across the country as a result of visit to Northern Ireland and Scotland — and will visit Wales shortly — to understand the challenge face by so many family throughout the United Kingdom , and what be require to bring down the number of child grow up in poverty . we be consider a range of measure because of the dreadful record leave by the Conservative Government : we have see countless thousand of child grow up in avoidable poverty . the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) , who be sit on the Opposition Front Bench , can shake his head all he like , but that be a fact . I welcome the statement , and it will also be welcome by the family of child attend St Monica ' s catholic primary school and King ' s Lander primary academy . we look forward to the extension and expansion of my right hon . friend ' s proposal . do she agree that they be food for thought in the most literal and practical sense of the term ? I be delighted to hear about the school in my hon . friend ' s constituency that be take part in the scheme . they will play a crucial role in how we find the most effective way of deliver this on a national basis . I believe it be essential for all child to arrive at school ready to learn , with full belly and hungry mind . parent and teacher in my constituency will welcome the statement , as will , in particular , Monteagle and Richard Alibon primary school , which be part of the early roll - out . the Secretary of State refer briefly to the evidence - base relationship between those who attend breakfast club and attainment ; that be particularly important in my constituency , where 19 % of child be frequently absent . can she give we some more detail about the evidence of a link between attendance at breakfast club and long - term school attendance ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the significant challenge relate to attendance . breakfast club be an important part of support for child in respect of behaviour , attendance and attainment , and the evidence be very clear in that regard . I pay tribute to the school leader and staff who will be involve in this important endeavour to support child at the start of the school day : their effort will allow we to effectively roll out a national scheme that will benefit child the length and breadth of our country , and I be grateful for their contribution . I thank the Secretary of State for her important policy announcement , and I thank she in particular for the investment in Caversham Park and St Anne ' s catholic primary school in my constituency . can she give any further detail of the evaluation of the programme over time ? we will update the House to ensure that member be aware of the continuation of the roll - out and its progress , but also so that we can learn how it be progress as quickly and effectively as possible . I be delighted to hear about the school in my hon . friend ' s constituency . Gwinear Community primary school be one of the 750 early adopter , and I be extremely pleased that they have join in . do the Secretary of State agree that this be part of an overall strategy to ensure that all child can gain access to the education that they deserve — a strategy that have be profoundly missing for the last 14 year ? as my hon . Friend say , breakfast club be an important part of ensure that all child be set up to succeed and every child have the good start in life , but we need to go much far , and , indeed , we be do so as a Labour Government . we be seek to break the link between background and success , so that more child than ever — a record proportion — be school - ready at the age of five . as we all know , the evidence point to the fact that child who slip behind at that crucial moment suffer later in life , and I want to ensure that every child in the country have the chance to get on . I be delighted that Denbigh primary school and Someries infant school be two of the first school to benefit from Labour ' s universal free breakfast club . we know that a balanced , nutritious breakfast will set child up for the school day and improve attendance and attainment . do the Secretary of State agree that Labour ' s delivery on its manifesto commitment , through our plan for change , be clear evidence that we be committed to break down barrier to opportunity and ensure that all child have the good chance in life ? I do agree with my hon . friend . the need for action be urgent . we know that far too many child be not achieve all that they can , and be hold back by virtue of their background . we be determined to turn that around , and the announcement I have make today show the determination of this Labour Government to ensure that background be no barrier to success . I be delighted that we have make such rapid progress , with more than 750 early adopter from April . I welcome the statement , and I be very glad that Chaucer infant and nursery school in my constituency sign up to the early adopter scheme . when I have the great privilege of visit the school recently , Miss Dawley give I an excellent tour and I have a fantastic discussion with the smart school council about its priority for our community . free breakfast club will provide a real financial boost for family in my constituency , who have struggle greatly as a result of the cost of living crisis . will the Secretary of State say more about how they will improve the opportunity available to child in Erewash ? I send my good wish to Miss Dawley and to the whole school community . they be clearly do fantastic work to support child in my hon . friend ' s area . of course breakfast club in primary school bring benefit to parent at the start of the school day , give they choice and flexibility at work , but , critically , this be about boost child ' s life chance . the evidence be very clear about the impact on attendance , behaviour and attainment . this be a crucial part of ensure that background be no barrier to get on in life . the Secretary of State will be well aware of the impact of covid on the wellbeing and attainment of child who be now at primary school , particularly those from disadvantaged background . this welcome intervention will make a massive difference to that covid cohort , but may I press the Secretary of State on the next step for they , in term of attainment but also mental health ? what be her Department do to ensure that there be more mental health provision , especially in primary school ? I think we all recognise , both as constituency member and from the work that we see take place across the country , the serious impact of the pandemic on young people and their mental health and the long waiting list for specialist support from child and adolescent mental health service . I be work closely with the Health Secretary to ensure that we roll out more mental health support throughout our school so that child have access to the support that they need at the early possible point . I be delighted that four school in my constituency be take part in the scheme — the Ferns primary academy and Farnborough Grange nursery / infant community school in Farnborough , and St Joseph ' s catholic primary school in Aldershot . what be my right hon . friend ' s message to parent in my constituency who be eager for their child ' s school to join the scheme so that they can benefit from Labour ' s plan for change in Aldershot and Farnborough ? my message to parent in Aldershot and across our country be that this Labour Government be on their side and deliver well work choice for they , and more support for their child at the start of the school day , when it come to breakfast club and the early adopter scheme . we be also take action to cut the cost of school uniform — an area that I know many parent find a real pressure — and expand childcare and early year entitlement , so that parent across our country , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency , be able to take up the place that have be promise . as a former teacher and local authority child ' s lead , I get to see at first hand the transformative impact that breakfast club can have in drive up attendance , attainment and young people ' s wellbee , so I be delighted that not one , not two , but three local school will benefit from the Government ' s early adopter scheme . as excited as I be for primary - age pupil at Meppershall , Shefford low and Etonbury academy in Stotfold , I want to make sure that even more can benefit . how will the Government make sure that we learn the lesson of the pilot as quickly as possible , so that every pupil in my constituency and across the country who be eligible for the commitment can benefit from it ? the school in my hon . friend ' s constituency will play an important role in determine how we can roll out this commitment right across our country . of course , the early adopter in his community will make a really meaningful difference to parent and child , but they will also give we the opportunity to test and learn as we go and , crucially , to demonstrate the impact of a universal breakfast club offer . we know that that be the way we can make sure that we reach some of the family that might find it more difficult to access such provision , because it be a less stigmatise way of reach those in great need . I thank and congratulate the headteacher and staff at Meldreth , Great Wilbraham and Stapleford primary school in my constituency . will the Minister explain to they how important it be that the learning that take place in those school will ensure the roll - out of breakfast club to all school in my constituency and across the country ? I pay tribute to the school in the hon . Lady ' s constituency , and to the workforce there , for the fantastic effort that they have make in order to take part in this scheme . I look forward to see the impact it have in school in her community and in constituency across the country , so that we can make sure that when we roll out this scheme nationwide , we do so on the basis of the well available evidence , take from a range of different context in different constituency across England . as a newly elect Member of this place , I try to visit a school in my constituency every week . time and again , parent tell I , as they do last week at Hindley all Saints primary , that have a child in this country be too expensive and too exhausting , which be why I really welcome the programme that the Secretary of State have set out today . in a few week ' time , I be host a coffee morning at the family hub in Hindley , where parent be come to discuss the issue that they face , particularly dad , who often do not show up to these thing . will the Secretary of State assure the House that she will tightly monitor the timeline for roll out this fantastic programme beyond the early adopter and to other school that will benefit , include those in my constituency ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his work in his community to support family . he be right to suggest that all parent experience challenge at different point . be a parent be a wonderful job , but it can also be a very challenging job at time , and the Government be determined to make sure that support be always available to family . we want to ensure that as we roll out this programme across the country as quickly as we can , we learn the lesson about what work in different part of our country . I give my hon . friend my commitment that the action that we be take as a Government will benefit family right across his constituency . we be take action on school uniform cost , roll out childcare and early year entitlement , and make sure that child have more early and timely access to support in area like SEND . do my right hon . friend think that a breakfast club might have help the attendance on the Opposition Benches and , indeed , the Conservatives ' grasp of basic math ? do my right hon . friend agree that Barton primary school in my constituency of Isle of Wight West have take an important step forward in improve the outcome for all its pupil , and that this be one of the many important first step that she be take to fix an education system that have be ruin by the previous Government ? Attendance have be a bit slim on the Opposition Benches this afternoon . in my response to the shadow Minister , I say that one would think that member from across the House would welcome the difference that breakfast club will make to community the length and breadth of our country , because they have be select in a range of different constituency to ensure that we learn from what be effective and what work . I be delighted that my hon . friend ' s constituency will be part of this scheme . the work that school leader , teacher and staff will carry out in this important endeavour will allow we to roll out breakfast club , make a real difference to child across our country . I know that my right hon . friend and constituency neighbour , the Secretary of State , be personally commit to deliver the good start to life for child in Sunderland , and I warmly welcome the fact that the Richard Avenue , Hudson Road , St Joseph ' s and Dame Dorothy school in my constituency have be announce as early adopter . will she say a little bit about regional variation in the availability of early year staff , which , as she know , be a particular challenge in our city ? my hon . friend be right to identify the variation that exist across our country , include when it come to early year place and provision . we have almost double the early year pupil premium to make sure that provider be support to create place in community that be in great need , but where place do not currently exist in the way that we would wish . when it come to the staffing of breakfast club , I be delighted that school in Sunderland Central will benefit . it will be for school to determine how good to use the funding to staff breakfast club , and there be no expectation that it should be carry out by teacher . exist breakfast club use a mixture of provision , which will continue , and the early adopter will allow we to test and learn , and to strengthen delivery , as part of a national roll - out . I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for give family in Carlisle not one , not two , but seven reason to be cheerful today . those seven reason be the school of Yewdale , Inglewood , Blackford , Hallbankgate , Bishop Harvey Goodwin , Castle Carrock and Brook Street . these seven school represent the full breadth , potential and diversity of Carlisle and north Cumbria , from the inner - city school of Brook Street , where many family have English as a second language and where opportunity be all too often deny to the child , to village school such as Castle Carrick and Hallbankgate , where drop off at school time can mean that parent can not take advantage of the opportunity that exist in the city . will the Secretary of State say a little more about the opportunity that will be unlocked for parent as a result of today ' s announcement ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the fact that the early adopter scheme cover school serve a wide range of setting and community . we have seek to ensure that there be a representative sample — large and small — of those serve community with high level of deprivation and those with low level . the early adopter scheme that we be introduce will have real benefit for parent in Carlisle , include by offer the flexibility at the start of the school day to drop off child a bit early , and to take on more hour at work or to get to work . the scheme will make a difference to child ' s life chance too , because the evidence be so clear that a soft start to the school day make a big difference to child ' s attendance , their behaviour and , crucially , their attainment at school . I welcome today ' s announcement , and I be very pleased to see that St Williams primary and Kinsale infant school in my constituency of Norwich North will be among those that benefit from the early adopter programme — they be two of the 12 school in Norfolk that will benefit . will the Secretary of State expand on the " test and learn " principle ? as we feed that in nationally , how will we feed it back to school on an ongoing basis so that they can make improvement , and be there opportunity for school to join up locally in area such as procurement ? we will provide the opportunity that my hon . friend outline to ensure that school work with one another to develop good practice , to learn from what work in similar setting , and to make sure that breakfast club in those school be as effective and accessible as they can be . we know that breakfast club make a really big difference to child and their life chance , and I be delighted that the Government have be able to move so rapidly in start the roll - out across our country . it be shameful that after the last Labour Government lift 1 . 1 million child out of poverty , year of neglect by Conservative Governments see an increase number of child go to school hungry , which limit their learning and life chance . I warmly welcome the announcement that four school in my constituency will be able to offer a free breakfast club from April : Ruswarp and Fylingdales , as well as St Peter ' s and St George ' s over in Scarborough . do my right hon . friend agree that these breakfast club show how this government be not only support work parent , but deliver on our promise to tackle child poverty ? opposition member never like to have it point out to they that on their watch we see rise level of child poverty in our country , which have scar the life chance of a generation and have leave family struggle . as a Labour Government , we be determined to make a difference and to ensure that background be no barrier to get on in life . I be grateful that my hon . friend be such a champion for her constituent in make sure that where people be from do not determine everything they can go on to achieve . the fact that we be deliver on our commitment , not even eight month into this Labour Government , demonstrate the difference that vote Labour make . I welcome this announcement , under which my constituent in Ashford will benefit from free breakfast club in three school : Downs View infant school , Kingsnorth primary school and Chilmington primary school . give child a chance to settle down and start their day at a club with friend will have a positive long - term impact on their mental health . do my right hon . friend agree that this need to be roll out to every primary school as soon as possible ? I agree , and we will do so as quickly as we can . my hon . friend be right to highlight the important benefit that breakfast club deliver by enable child to socialise and play at the start of the school day . I have see so many fantastic example of breakfast club already in operation that make such a profound difference to child by give they a chance to spend time with friend , play and learn ahead of start the school day , as well as the crucial boost that have a healthy breakfast deliver . I be delighted that five school in my constituency — Hartford Manor , Over Hall , Winsford High Street , Victoria Road and St Joseph ' s — will be among the first to offer breakfast club . I pay tribute to the leader of those school , who , by put forward their school , will ensure that child in my area start the day ready to learn . the evidence suggest that this will improve attainment , increase attendance and enhance wellbeing , while boost those child ' s overall life chance . to ensure that all child can benefit from free breakfast club , can my right hon . friend tell I what step be be take to ensure that breakfast club be inclusive and accessible for child with SEND ? I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the school leader in his community , who will be a part — a very important part — of our early adopter scheme . I thank they for their contribution . he be right to highlight the important need for all breakfast club to be inclusive , include for child with SEND , which be why , through this process , we will be able to learn from what work . it be also why , alongside announcement about breakfast club in mainstream school , we be announce specialist provision — alternative provision school will be a part of this — so that we can learn from the good practice that exist in the specialist sector and ensure that mainstream school can also develop it . there be no doubt that this Government ' s introduction of free breakfast club will be transformative for many family . Worcester have always be a pioneering city , and as a city that train teacher , we be a hub for education , so I be particularly pleased at today ' s announcement that no few than three of our local school — oasis , Red Hill and Riversides — have be select as early adopter of breakfast club . will the Secretary of State elaborate on how this pilot contribute to end poverty and ensure that every child have the opportunity to thrive , achieve and succeed ? the child and family at my hon . friend ' s school in Worcester will benefit directly from the early adopter programme , but they will also be an important part of how we roll out this scheme nationwide , allow we to develop good practice . I pay tribute to the school and their leader in his community for take part in the scheme . he be absolutely right that we want to ensure that all child be set up to succeed at the start of the school day , so that they can achieve , thrive and succeed in every way possible . parent and family of child at Knockhall primary school in Greenhithe in my constituency will be delighted to hear that it be a breakfast club early adopter . this will ensure that pupil start their day well feed and ready to learn , and it will save family money . will the Secretary of State say a little more about how the learning , nutritional and cost - of - live benefit will be evaluate ? through the early adopter programme , school will be able to take part in a peer - to - peer support network , so that they can work together to share expertise and approach at a regional level , which will be crucial to the work we take forward on the national roll - out . the school in my hon . friend ' s constituency will not just play a role in support family locally ; it will be an essential part of how we learn what work and what be most effective . we want to ensure that good practice be spread across the country as we roll out breakfast club nationwide . I be delighted that three school in my constituency — Ashurst primary , Garswood primary and PACE — be part of this initial roll - out , and I be delighted for they . I be also delighted to hear Carr Mill primary school in my constituency get a mention by the Secretary of State in her statement . I congratulate Mr Maley , the headteacher , and all the staff on the outstanding work they be clearly already do — I know they be do it , because I use to work there , and it be a great school . like many member , I have already be contact today by other family and school to ask when they can be part of this scheme . can the Secretary of State assure I and my constituent that the Government will work as quickly as possible to roll it out to all primary school ? can she also assure my constituent who be concerned about school funding that school will be properly resource to deliver this , as well as everything else they have to do ? I can say to my hon . friend ' s constituent and those across St Helens that we will ensure that school have the resource they need to deliver the roll - out of breakfast club , both for early adopter and beyond . as we get this initial phase under way , it be essential that we learn what work ahead of the national roll - out . we be determined to roll out breakfast club nationwide as quickly as possible , but the fact that we can announce the early adopter scheme start from April demonstrate the difference that a Labour Government make . I strongly welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , and I can not tell she how delighted I be that four school in my constituency , with over 1 , 300 child , will be early adopter under this scheme . I pay tribute to the leader of Skelton primary , Lockwood primary , Pennyman primary and St Bernadette ' s primary for their leadership . do my right hon . friend agree with I that , as far as child of work family be concern , this Government be on their side and focus on make sure they have the good start in life and the good start to the school day ? I be delighted that four school in my hon . friend ' s constituency be take part , and I look forward to all primary school across Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland benefit from the roll - out of breakfast club across our country . this Labour Government be on the side of work parent , put more money back into parent ' pocket , support parent at the start of the school day and cut the cost of the school day . that be the difference that a Labour Government bring , and that be the difference that elect my hon . friend to this place bring . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . first , I should declare a non - pecuniary interest as a freeman of the City of London . a constituent have raise with I the concern that the City of London be seek by mean of a private Bill — the City of London ( Markets ) Bill — the ability to sell and redevelop without replacement the historic meat market of Smithfield and the fish market of Billingsgate . a petition against this proposal with many hundred of signature have be deny an audience and block by the corporation on the ground that the petitioner do not have a direct interest in the propose legislation . Smithfield and Billingsgate have for century provide meat and fish that be consume throughout the country , and it be therefore fair to argue that every citizen of the United Kingdom have a direct interest in these market , for which the corporation have acquire and prepare alternative site that it be now seek to abandon . my question to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , be : be it correct , proper and orderly that the petition against this Bill should not be hear ? I thank the right hon . member for give prior notice of his point of order . the right of petitioner to be hear before a Committee on a private Bill be not a matter for the Chair . none the less , he have put his point on the record , and hon . member who wish to object to the Bill will have an opportunity to do so when it return to the Floor of the House on Report . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . today be the third anniversary of the start of the war in Ukraine . during the Ukraine statement , several member be ask where certain other member be for that vital debate . up to now , the House have be rock solid in its overwhelming support for Ukraine . it may interest Madam Deputy Speaker to know that the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) be not actually in the United States , and he be not in Clacton - on - Sea . he be 290 mile away , in my constituency , hold a rally . should he not have ask I first ? I thank the hon . gentleman for give notice of his point of order . I assume he have notify the hon . member to whom he be refer . indicate assent . the document call " Rules of behaviour and courtesy in the House of Commons " deal with this matter . when a member visit another Member ' s constituency , except on a purely private visit , they should take reasonable step in advance to tell the Member in whose constituency the visit be take place . that guidance also state that fail to do so be regard by colleague as " very discourteous " . the hon . Gentleman have put his point on the record . Crown Estate Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 1 - management of the Crown Estate in Wales " ( 1 ) within two year of the day on which this Act be commence , the Treasury must have complete a transfer of the responsibility of the management of the Crown Estate in Wales to the Welsh Government . ( 2 ) the Treasury may by regulation make provision about the transfer of the responsibility of the management of the Crown Estate in Wales relate to reserve measure as it consider necessary or expedient , include — ( a ) in the interest of defence or national security , ( b ) in connection with maintain and develop telecommunication and wireless telegraphy , and ( c ) in connection with maintain and develop the transmission or distribution of electricity or the provision or use of electricity interconnector . ( 3 ) the Treasury must by regulation make provision to ensure that the employment of any person in Crown employment be not adversely affect by the transfer of responsibility under this section . ( 4 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . " — ( Llinos Medi . ) this new clause place a duty on the Treasury to transfer management of the Crown Estate in Wales to the Welsh Government within two year of the commencement of the Act and take measure by resolution to secure arrangement for reserve matter such as defence and national security , telecommunication , and the national grid , and to ensure that employee of the Crown Estate be not adversely affect by the transfer . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 2 — Marine Spatial Planning : coordination — " in relation to any decision make about marine spatial priority , the Crown Estate must — ( a ) ensure that the decision be coordinate with the priority of the Marine Maritime Organisation , and ( b ) consult any community or industry impact by the plan , include fishing community . " Marine plan guide marine use and regulation for sustainable development , balance the environment , economy , and society . this new clause ensure the Crown Estate collaborate with DEFRA ' s Marine Spatial Prioritisation through the MMO , use its expertise to inform decision , prevent conflict of interest from its new borrowing and investment power . new clause 3 — sustainable development : community benefit — " ( 1 ) before make any investment decision , the Commissioners must assess — ( a ) plan for community benefit for local community , and ( b ) plan for community benefit for coastal community of offshore activity . ( 2 ) in section 3 ( 1 ) of the Crown Estate Act 1961 , at end insert — ' ( 1A ) the Commissioners must transfer at least 5 per cent of all net profit generate from the Crown Estate ' s activity to local community impact by those activity . ' " this new clause would require the Commissioners to ensure their activity benefit local community , include coastal community , and that 5 % of any profit would be transfer to local community . new clause 4 — devolution of Crown Estate power to Wales — " ( 1 ) the Crown Estate Act 1961 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 7 ( power of Minister of Works in Regent ' s Park ) insert — ' 7a Commissioners ' function in Wales ( 1 ) the Treasury must set out a scheme to transfer all the exist Welsh function of the Crown Estate Commissioners ( " the Commissioners " ) to the Welsh Ministers or a person nominate by Welsh Ministers . ( 2 ) the exist Welsh function under subsection ( 1 ) be the Commissioners ’ function relate to the part of the Crown Estate that , immediately before the transfer date , consist of — ( a ) property , right or interest in land in Wales , and ( b ) right in relation to the Welsh zone . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation set a date to implement the scheme under subsection ( 1 ) to the transfer of function to the Welsh Ministers or a person nominate by Welsh Ministers . ( 4 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 3 ) be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament . ' " this new clause would require the Treasury to devolve Welsh function of the Crown Estate Commissioners to Welsh Ministers or a person nominate by Welsh Ministers . new clause 5 — Limit on the disposal of asset — " after section 3 of the Crown Estate Act 1961 , insert — ' 3A Limit on the disposal of asset ( 1 ) the Commissioners must inform the Treasury if the disposal of asset of the Crown Estate will be of a value total 10 % or more of the Crown Estate ' s total asset in a single year . ( 2 ) the Treasury must approve of any disposal of asset above the threshold in subsection ( 1 ) and the Chancellor of the Exchequer must lay a report before Parliament within 28 day of be notify by the Commissioners . ' " this new clause require the Crown Estate Commissioners to notify and seek HM Treasury approval for the disposal of asset total 10 % or more of the Crown Estate ' s total asset . new clause 6 — partnership agreement : the Crown Estate and great british Energy — " the Chancellor of the Exchequer must lay before Parliament any partnership agreement between the Crown Estate and great British Energy . " this new clause require the Chancellor of the Exchequer to lay before Parliament any partnership agreement between the Crown Estate and great British Energy . Amendment 1 , clause 1 , page 1 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) the Treasury must by regulation limit borrow to a net debt to asset value ratio of no more than 25 per cent . ( 4 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 3 ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . " this amendment would limit the amount the Commissioners may borrow by regulation . amendment 4 , page 1 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must limit borrowing by the Crown Estate under this section by regulation make by statutory instrument , and these regulation may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 4 ) the first set of regulation make under subsection ( 3 ) must limit borrowing to a net debt to asset value ratio of no more than 25 per cent . " this amendment would limit the amount the Commissioners may borrow by regulation subject to the affirmative procedure for statutory instrument . amendment 2 , clause 3 , page 2 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 3b ) any framework document publish by the Chancellor of the Exchequer , the Crown Estate and the Commissioners must define ' sustainable development ' for the purpose of this Act . ( 3c ) the definition under subsection ( 3b ) must include reference to a climate and nature duty . ( 3d ) a ' climate and nature duty ' mean a duty to achieve any target set out under Part 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 or under section 1 to 3 of the Environment Act 2021 . " this amendment would ensure that this act ' s Framework Agreement must define " sustainable development " , and that the definition must include reference to a climate and nature duty . amendment 3 , page 2 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 3b ) in pursuit of the objective under subsection 3a , the Commissioners must assess the adequacy of protection against coastal erosion in area affect by their offshore activity . " this amendment would require the Commissioners to assess the protection against coastal erosion in area where landfall be make for offshore project . amendment 5 , page 2 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 3b ) in keep the impact of their activity under review , the Commissioners must have regard to ― ( a ) the United Kingdom ' s Net Zero target ; ( b ) regional economic growth ; and ( c ) ensure resilience in respect of energy security . " this new sub - section would require the Crown Estate Commissioners , in review the impact of their activity on the achievement of sustainable development , to have specific regard to the United Kingdom ' s Net Zero target , regional economic growth , and resilience in respect of energy security . new clause 1 transfer the management of the Crown Estate in Wales to the Welsh Government within two year of the commencement of the Act . the principle behind it be simple : the people of Wales should control and benefit from their own natural resource . for much of Welsh history , that have not be the case , with resource often exploit for the benefit of other . from copper in Amlwch in Ynys M ô n , slate in Gwynedd , steel in Port Talbot and Newport , to the coal across the south - east valley , the river of wealth that flow from those industry be suck out of our community — and those community have since be ravage by poverty . Wales be bless with natural wealth and brilliant people , yet we be also a nation afflict with deprivation , follow year of extraction . shocking new figure show that child poverty in Wales be set to reach 34 . 4 % by the end of the decade . that be the legacy of our past , in which wealth generate be not use to benefit the Welsh economy or community . today , in 2025 , that extractive pattern be be repeat with Wales ' s green wealth . Wales have immense renewable energy potential in our windy sea and long coastline — we can see that demonstrate in the Morlais project on Ynys M ô n — but the seabed , along with thousand of acre of land , be control by the Crown Estate . renewable energy project use these resource be expand rapidly and deliver profit . we see that in the value of the Crown Estate , which sky - rocket from £ 96 million five year ago to £ 853 million in 2023 . however , all profit generate by the Crown Estate in Wales be transfer to the Treasury . this green wealth , just like the wealth from coal and other mineral in the past , be be suck out of our nation . million of pound generate on the Welsh Crown Estate be take out of Wales each year , away from our community who have bear the brunt of decade of economic decline . in 2017 , Scotland gain control over the Scottish Crown Estate and ensure that all profit be keep in Scotland . devolution have generate million for the scottish public purse , with fund go directly to deprive community such as those in the highland . why do the scottish people get the benefit from their own water , wind and sea resource , but the people of Wales can not ? it be simply not credible for the Government to continue to say that devolution be too complicated , too costly and too time - consume . these be all issue that can be address with proper planning and resource . Scotland ' s Crown Estate be devolve in 2017 . it be ludicrous to say that the Welsh Crown Estate can not be devolve in a similar way . in Scotland , interim measure be put in place to ensure a smooth transition from the point of devolution until the implementation of a long - term framework for manage asset . new clause 1 take a similar pragmatic approach by introduce a transition period . it work in Scotland ; it can work for Wales , too . throughout this whole debate , the Government have still not address the principle of control , so I would like the Minister to answer directly : do his Government believe that the people of Wales should have democratic control over their own natural resource ? the people of Wales certainly believe so . polling show that majority support among the Welsh public for the devolution of the Crown Estate be high than ever . it be also support by the Welsh Labour Government . a majority of council in Wales have pass motion in support of devolution ; Wrexham council do so just last week , with the support of its Labour group . More council will follow suit , and we may very likely have all council in Wales declare support for devolution in the near future . there be a mandate from right across Welsh society for devolution . member of Parliament would do well to remember that they be here to serve and represent the people , and that the people of Wales have clearly make their view know on this matter . in closing , I return to the principle that I outline at the beginning of my speech . do member of this House believe that the people of Wales should , after century of exploitation , finally be give the right to control and benefit from their own natural resource ? if they believe in that principle , I urge they to join I in the voting Lobby . we live in uncertain time , and as a nation we face many challenge ahead . for one , there be Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . the impact on our domestic energy price have show the extent of our reliance on the international oil and gas market . since 2022 , gas price for household across the country have spike , and the cost of living continue to bite . Putin ' s boot be on our throat . another challenge be the result of rapid deindustrialisation across the UK since the 1980 , and too much economic focus on London and south - east England . we have see massive job loss at Port Talbot ; we face an uncertain future at Grangemouth ; and we still bear the scar of the loss of the mining industry . regional inequality be stark , and in my constituency of Mid and South Pembrokeshire , the rate of child poverty be steadily increase . and of course there be our climate crisis : wildfire in California , torrential rain in Spain , and extreme heatwave and long drought . even walk through the village of Angle in Pembrokeshire with member of the local community council , it be all too easy to see the increase in frequency of flooding , not to mention its damaging impact on resident and local farmer . prior to the general election of 4 July , my right hon . friend the Chancellor set out her economic vision of securonomic : we would make , sell and buy more in Britain , and so deliver energy security and create good , well - pay job while tackle the climate crisis . my labour colleague and I stand for election on that manifesto , and it be time to deliver . at a time when the challenge be so great and the need for leadership be so acute , it be vital that the Crown Estate have great scope to rise to those challenge and do its part for the revitalisation of our great nation . the provision in clause 3 that commissioner at the Crown Estate " must keep under review the impact of their activity on the achievement of sustainable development in the United Kingdom " be therefore to be welcome . that amendment be hard fight for by the noble Lords in the other place , and I commend they for it . however , it be our duty in this House to provide clarity about the meaning and scope of " sustainable development " , and about the mechanism for enforce that provision . maintain transparency and accountability be critical for an organisation as big and influential as the Crown Estate . allow the estate to define " sustainable development " and report annually be a move straight out of the environmental , social and governance playbook . give the financial firepower that this House be grant the Crown Estate , allow it to effectively self - regulate on an issue of national importance be a dereliction of our democratic duty . under amendment 5 , the commissioner must have regard to net zero , regional economic growth and energy security . it would not impede the independence of the Crown Estate , but would provide unambiguous purpose and direction on an otherwise undefined and unexplained term . it should therefore be welcome . of course , a key issue for all of we in the United Kingdom , and certainly for we in Northern Ireland , be the fishing sector . any net zero development , such as a wind farm — wind farm have be propose for my constituency in the past — could have a direct impact on the fishing sector there . do the hon . Gentleman share my concern that the fishing sector could be impact by measure that take away the opportunity to fish in the sea around this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , to the detriment of those in the sector , and their family ? the fishing industry have a great history in my constituency , and it be vital that the Crown Estate take on board the issue in the fishing industry when it look at leasing and consent . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . I be grateful also to the Minister for his assurance in Committee that the public framework document will give context to clause 3 , on sustainable development . however , no text have yet be share with this House , nor will any be share until after the Bill receive Royal Assent . this reduce scrutiny and will encourage a retrospective review , rather than a proactive approach . furthermore , rely on a public framework document reduce this House ' s ability to ensure that the clause be properly enforce . what be the mechanism for enforcement in the event of non - compliance ? what if the Crown Estate fail to report in good faith — what would the penalty be ? off the back of Labour ' s resound victory last July , we know there be democratic consensus across the nation on our economic vision , which promote energy security , regional economic growth and net zero , yet the Crown Estate appear to be rely on the window dressing of ESG standard to obfuscate its desire to maximise its 12 % of profit , at the expense of our nation . the hon . Gentleman be make a powerful argument , and I share his concern for community such as Milford Haven , in which renewable development will be critical in future . I be sure he will also agree that devolution of the Crown Estate would be a key way to make the good use of supply chain , and to ensure that money stay as local as possible , particularly in Wales . I thank the right hon . Lady for her intervention . I sometimes feel , though , that the idea of her party be slightly for the bird . the idea of devolution — where be their plan ? there be no plan . what be the practicality ? I thank my friend and constituency neighbour for give way . the plan be quite simple : we could look at what be happen at this very moment in Scotland . the issue , though , be the practicality . be the hon . Gentleman go to draw an artificial line in the Celtic sea ? what about the issue of consent ? what would that do for the leasing round , when certainty of investment for the private sector be so critical at this stage ? furthermore , other Government agency and Departments have to take account of this economic vision . in its late contract for difference round , the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero set a criterion of achieve short supply chain , in order to ensure that manufacturing facility , installation firm and port be locate in area of deprivation . it also adhere to science - base target , which be goal that business set to reduce their greenhouse gas emission in line with obligation under international treaty , so that we can reach net zero by 2050 . the national wealth fund have an overall goal of increase investment in resilient and sustainable infrastructure to support the UK ' s net zero transition , and to contribute to improved local economic opportunity and productivity . in partnering with the private sector and local government , the national wealth fund have two clear strategic objective : to tackle climate change and to support regional and local economic growth . great British Energy facilitate , encourage and participate in the production , distribution , storage and supply of clean energy , the reduction of greenhouse gas emission , improvement in energy efficiency and measure for ensure the security of energy supply . in provide clarity of purpose , this House be not overreach and dictate individual organisational decision ; instead , it be set out a broad direction of travel , base on the democratic will of the people of this great country . in my constituency , people be desperately in need of that radical intervention to address the high level of social deprivation and bring back economic prosperity . to be clear , I support the Bill . however , in order for this Government to deliver on their election manifesto , the Crown Estate must be give clear purpose and direction that be directly align with the Prime Minister ' s plan for change . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to speak on Report , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will focus on amendment 4 and new clause 5 and 6 , which I table . the Bill be develop under the previous Conservative Government to increase the Crown Estate ' s ability to compete by provide a broad power to borrow , in order to maintain and enhance the value of the estate and the income derive from it . the asset manage by the Crown Estate , which total £ 15 . 5 billion , be not the property of the Government , nor be they part of the sovereign ' s private estate ; they be hold in right of the Crown . appropriate scrutiny of the Crown Estate be therefore essential , which be what the amendment and new clause I have table seek to ensure . over the past decade , the Crown Estate generate £ 4 . 1 billion for the nation ' s finance , and it believe that the measure in the Bill will enable it to generate an additional £ 100 million in revenue to the Treasury by 2030 , which be a prize worth seek . before speak to the measure in my name , I turn briefly to new clause 1 , which propose devolution of the Welsh function of the Crown Estate to the Welsh Government . I wonder whether the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) have support from business for this change , as split the Crown Estate at this time would introduce risk for asset and revenue stream . in Committee , we hear about the potential problem and complexity of licensing of the Celtic sea , to which the hon . member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) just refer . I be very interested to hear the hon . Gentleman ' s argument against devolve the administration of the Crown Estate to Wales . the previous Government — his government — devolve those same power to Scotland . can I ask he , very simply , why it work for Scotland , but be too complicated for Wales ? we be deal with the Bill in front of we today . to do so at the moment would be too complex for the licensing reason and other reason set out in Committee , which could undermine the return that would be make for taxpayer , whether in Wales or other part of the country . the hon . member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire speak to amendment 5 , a version of which be move in Committee on his behalf . we recognise that the amendment have be revise . however , as I say in Committee , we be cautious about put more obligation on the Crown Estate than clause 3 already do ; there be danger of the overreach that he speak about . I be sure he will be listen to the Minister ' s speech with some interest . the kernel of the Bill be the expansion of the power of the Crown Estate to borrow , but there be a lack of parliamentary oversight on borrowing level . amendment 4 , which appear in my name , would limit borrowing to a net debt - to - asset value ratio of no more than 25 % , which could be amend by affirmative regulation . that would , I believe , be a proportionate check on this new borrowing power . when push in Committee , the Government again state that limit on borrowing be well set outside legislation in a memorandum of understanding , but a memorandum of understanding be all too easily alter at the stroke of a pen — a point the Minister do not address in Committee . will he give an undertaking , at the very least , that any change to a memorandum of understanding would be report to Parliament ? give that Parliament be be ask to remove the restriction on borrow and that the Government agree there should be a limit , I struggle to see why the cap should not be set in legislation , with the ability to amend it . borrow more than 25 % carry risk , which could ultimately affect the sustainability of the estate . that be why the Government themselves have accept that there should be a limit . as this new power affect asset hold on behalf of the nation , it should be subject to control . this would be a perfectly reasonable check , and I hope member will back it . new clause 5 would require the Crown Estate to seek Treasury approval for disposal amount to 10 % or more of its total asset , and then to lay a report before Parliament . Disposal of asset have be an important part of the discussion throughout the proceeding on the Bill , both here and in the other place . indeed , clause 5 be introduce after pressure to require Treasury consent before dispose of any of the Crown Estate ' s right or privilege in relation to the territorial seabed . that be a welcome safeguard , but can the Minister conceive of any circumstance in which the Government would approve of such a sale ? can he give a commitment that national security would be at the fore in any consideration of such a proposal ? would Ministers come to the House before agree to any such disposal ? in Committee , the Minister state that the current process dictate that the Government will be consult on any potential sale of a nationally significant asset . how do he define nationally significant ? he also argue that require Treasury consent for large disposal would undermine the flexibility that the Crown Estate need to operate commercially , but the propose new clause simply require Treasury consent to be seek and then report to Parliament . the Crown Estate will not suddenly decide tomorrow to dispose of an asset ; it will go through its internal process and business case . a version of those paper could be provide to Ministers and , depend on the Ministers , there could be a very rapid approval process that do not compromise flexibility but ensure accountability . these asset be hold for the benefit of the nation , and we should ensure some form of transparency and scrutiny . new clause 6 would require the Chancellor to lay before Parliament any partnership agreement between the Crown Estate and GB Energy . that be fundamental , as without be able to see detail of the agreement , we do not know what have be agree . there be a lack of clarity over how this new partnership will work . we be still concerned that it have be create for political rather than economic reason . the opposition be sceptical about what the Government say about GB Energy , because during the election Labour claim that GB Energy would cut energy bill by £ 300 , but bill be go up . the chairman of GB Energy have refuse to say when people can expect £ 300 off their energy bill . we know that GB Energy will spend £ 8 . 3 billion of taxpayer ' money , but will not generate any energy , be an energy supplier or save family £ 300 . we be concerned that at all stage the Government have resist great transparency . when push on Second Reading and in Committee , the Exchequer Secretary say that while the partnership agreement itself will not be publish since it will be commercially sensitive , the Crown Estate be commit to publish information relate to the partnership as part of its exist annual report . however , the provision to include that in an annual report could result in a considerable lag after such an agreement become operational and in only limited detail be publish . frankly , that be not good enough , which be why we have table new clause 6 . transparency be important because we do not know how much the Crown Estate may invest in GB Energy ' s project . we do not know what level of fund from this borrowing power could be use for that purpose . when I ask the Crown Estate how it would decide between project that GB Energy favour and other that may have a high rate of return , I be tell that there would be a business plan for the partnership . that show a further lack of transparency , as I assume the Minister will not place that before the House . I also ask about decision making for the partnership , and the response be : " the intention be that both party will seek agreement on investment decision whilst retain their own independence . the Crown Estate will not be compel to agree to anything which it do not wish to agree to in fulfilment of its statutory duty . " I note the use of " intention " and " compel " . there be a linger concern that Ministers may pressure GB Energy and the Crown Estate to invest in the Energy Secretary ' s pet project . clearly , the chairman of GB Energy be very close to the Labour party , and nominate a Labour party donor as the chairman of the Crown Estate add to this concern . publish the agreement could help allay concern about the Government ' s intention . if the Minister contend that the agreement , which do not yet exist , be too commercially sensitive , will he consider make a redact version available ? as I say in Committee , will he consider provide the agreement to the Public Accounts Committee on a confidential basis ? as a former member of that Committee , I know of a precedent for that : in January 2018 , the Cabinet Office provide a risk register of strategic supplier to Government — a very sensitive document — to that Committee , which provide assurance on behalf of the House . I remain concerned about political pressure be put on the Crown Estate and urge member to support our new clause 6 , which would simply require the Chancellor to lay the partnership agreement before Parliament . the Crown Estate Bill will deliver the modernisation of the Crown Estate . our amendment and new clause would ensure appropriate oversight and transparency as it deliver on its primary duty to maintain and enhance the value of the asset and the return for taxpayer . it be a pleasure to contribute this evening . I will speak in favour of the Bill and address some of the amendment and new clause , although there probably be not time to address they all . the Bill be an important and necessary step to help the Government take speedy action to tackle the climate emergency , and to help ensure energy security . it modernise the management of the Crown Estate , as we have hear , which potentially be a sleep giant of green energy provision . the estate be responsible for vast amount of coastal land and seabed , which have enormous potential to deliver wind power and other renewable . tackle the climate emergency be a significant challenge , but it be achievable . however , we need to step up to the challenge , and the Bill be part of a wide transformation of Government policy to do exactly that . as we hear in Committee , the Bill be urgently need because although the Crown Estate have enormous potential , the rule govern its management be unduly restrictive . for example , the Crown Estate Act 1961 , which govern the estate ' s management of its resource , set out rule that would now be deem inappropriate for hold very large cash balance . that make it difficult for the Crown Estate to work with private investor to develop new wind energy and to transmit urgently need new power to the grid . there be a clear need for these measure . I hope that , after sufficient debate , it be time for the Bill to make further progress . I would like to support the Minister by briefly point out the inherent error of some of the new clause and amendment . new clause 5 seek Treasury approval for the disposal of more than 10 % of the Crown Estate ' s asset . clearly , that would reduce flexibility for the Crown Estate in manage its estate and business . new clause 6 would require the Chancellor to lay any partnership agreement between the Crown Estate and GB Energy before Parliament . however , as we have hear , partnership agreement be normally commercially sensitive , and there could be a risk to further business if that be carry out . let I turn briefly to the amendment . amendment 3 , which in my opinion be misconstrue , would require the commissioner to assess the adequacy of protection against coastal erosion in area affect by their offshore activity . however , the UK already have a whole series of dedicated statutory body in each of the devolve administration that be task with exactly that activity . equally , amendment 5 be unnecessary . it would ask the Crown Estate when review the impact of its work to consider the impact on net zero target , regional economic development and energy security . however , it be clear that the whole Bill be intend to tackle the challenge of address and eventually reach net zero . reference specific target risk far complicate what be already an important Bill that have have considerable discussion in Committee . as my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary say at an early stage , this be an important Bill to help the UK achieve our climate target , and it be a significant step forward in help we retain energy security . it be time for the whole House to support it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I extend my thank to colleague in the other place , the Public Bill Office staff and those in this House who serve on the Bill Committee . their effort have be invaluable in scrutinise and refine the Bill . I support the Bill . however , the liberal Democrat amendment seek to ensure that it deliver for both people and the planet . while the Bill present opportunity — it aim to enhance energy security , create new job and bring we close to achieve our climate target — we must not lose sight of the need for financial accountability , proportionate borrowing cap , the duty to protect nature in the marine environment and the necessity of take community with we and provide they with clear , tangible benefit . it be important to note that our discussion coincide with the third anniversary of Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine and its consequence not only for the Ukrainians suffer the war , but for family here in the UK with volatile , skyrocket energy price due to our reliance on fossil fuel from authoritarian regime like Putin ' s : a stark reminder of the need to secure the production of our energy here in the UK . the last Conservative Government set the UK back both in meet our climate target and in seize the opportunity to be global leader in green energy due to indecision and broken pledge . we have the chance to be global leader in offshore float wind , which be why the Bill be so important . I speak to amendment 2 to clause 3 , which I hope we will vote on tonight . it would ensure that sustainable development be clearly define in the Crown Estate ' s framework agreement , explicitly include a reference to a climate and nature duty . the Crown Estate play a crucial role in manage our land , sea and natural resource . it be central to offshore wind expansion , biodiversity conservation and sustainable land use . give its influence , merely require its commissioner to " keep under review " their impact on sustainable development be insufficient without a clear definition and accountability of what that entail , as the hon . member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) mention . that be key to ensure that there be social and economic consideration in all investment and that the cost and benefit — in particular to local community and local economy — be take into consideration . the amendment build on Baroness Hayman ' s concession in the other House . she say : " what matter be the impact we have and how much we have shift the dial in term of what the Crown Estate achieve in support of the Government ' s climate and nature objective . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 5 November 2024 ; Vol . 840 , c . 1448 . ] by clearly define sustainable development in the Crown Estate ' s framework agreement , the amendment would establish a benchmark for accountability in line with exist legislation . in contrast with the amendment table by the hon . member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire , this amendment mention nature , too , and build on the agreement in the other House . it seek to enshrine the assurance give to the Lords , ensure that the framework agreement would indeed include a climate and nature duty , align the Crown Estate ' s responsibility with the UK ' s legally bind climate target under the Climate Change Act 2008 and nature restoration goal under the Environment Act 2021 . it be about more than environmental stewardship ; it be about future - proof the Crown Estate ' s decision against the economic risk of climate change and nature loss . I strongly support new clause 3 , which would ensure that the Bill bring local community along with it . that be essential . we table the new clause to guarantee that coastal and rural community would see real benefit from Crown Estate activity . it would require a proper assessment of community benefit before investment decision be make , and mandate that at least 5 % of net profit be reinveste in affected area . coastal community need to see both job and a fair financial return from large - scale development around they and off their shore . the Crown Estate generate billion from offshore wind , marine industry and land development , yet local people often see little direct benefit . the new clause would redress that imbalance , ensure that such community impact by change actively benefit from it . it be about fairness and economic regeneration . if the Government be serious about level up , they should back the new clause , which would ensure that the Crown Estate ' s success be share by all , not just a privileged few . we have other amendment , too — we be busy in Committee . new clause 2 focus on marine spatial planning co - ordination and would ensure that the Crown Estate duly collaborate with the Marine Management Organisation , which have the mandate to make decision about marine spatial planning , and that fishing community be fully consult . that align with work go on for year as Liberal Democrats have call for comprehensive land and sea use framework to resolve conflict , determine priority and improve co - ordination . with grow pressure from offshore wind , marine conservation , fishing and tourism , decision making must be join up . Marine plan balance economic , environmental and social interest . the Crown Estate must work closely with the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs ' marine spatial prioritisation framework and the MMO ' s expertise , as well as other relevant consultee such as heritage . the Government amendment require ministerial approval for seabed sale be an important and positive step , recognise its national importance . however , that highlight the broad need for transparency and oversight in marine planning . the new clause seek to avoid potential conflict of interest in prioritising and decision making arise from the Crown Estate ' s new borrowing and investment power . member may have notice a theme run through the Liberal Democrats ’ amendment : that of ensure that local community both benefit from and have a real say in decision that will affect they as a result of the Bill . that be why we have also table new clause 4 . while the appointment of commissioner for Wales , England and Northern Ireland be a positive step , Wales still lack the legal and financial control over the Crown Estate that Scotland enjoy . Welsh community must also stand to benefit from the change introduce by the Bill . I hope that the Government and the opposition will join the Liberal Democrats in support amendment 2 to ensure that sustainable development within the Crown Estate ' s framework agreement be clearly define and include a climate and nature duty . the Bill present a trident of opportunity — it can enhance energy security , create job and bring we close to achieve our net zero target — but we can not afford to lose sight of the need for financial accountability , the duty to protect nature , and the need to ensure that all community be include in the crucial journey to net zero . the Bill be not just about number on a spreadsheet . ultimately , for my constituent , it be about job , opportunity and a well future for place like Wolverhampton North East . right now , the Crown Estate be hold back by outdated rule that limit its ability to invest . it be force to sell asset just to raise capital . that be not sustainable , and it be stop we from reach our full potential . the Bill change the game , give the Crown Estate the power to borrow , invest and back long - term project that deliver real benefit for our community . Wolverhampton North East be ready to seize those opportunity . with our forthcoming green innovation corridor , world - class manufacturing industry and skilled workforce know for its true graft , we be perfectly place to drive the UK ' s green economy . the Bill mean more funding for renewable energy , more investment in advanced manufacturing and more demand for the product we make in Wolverhampton and Willenhall . More investment mean more job , more apprenticeship and more chance for young people to get the skill they need to build a career in the industry of the future , whether in engineering , fabrication or high - tech manufacturing . the Bill will help we to build more , make more and sell more in Wolverhampton and Willenhall , right in the heart of the Black Country . the unprecedented £ 60 billion partnership between Great British Energy and the Crown Estate will supercharge offshore wind development , create huge opportunity for our local business . this be not just about turbine on land or at sea — we know that Wolverhampton and Willenhall be not geographically suitable for offshore wind — but about the supply chain , the manufacturing and the innovation that we can drive in town and city like Wolverhampton and Willenhall . just this morning , the CBI have say that Britain ' s net zero economy be boom . the sector be grow three time fast than the overall UK economy , the average salary in the net zero sector be £ 5 , 600 high than the national average and productivity in the sector be nearly 40 % high than in the wide economy . do my hon . friend agree that this be an industrial opportunity for this country that we can not afford to ignore , and that this Bill will help we to realise this opportunity and make it more achievable ? I absolutely agree . this be an example of how this Government will respond to the change world that we live in . this Bill be about back british industry , invest in local community and make sure that place such as Wolverhampton North East lead the way in the UK ' s future success . do my hon . friend agree that remove these outdated restriction on the Crown Estate will allow a great return for the public purse and benefit all our constituent across the country , include her own in Wolverhampton and mine in Harlow ? I do agree with my hon . friend , and base on the make - up of our constituency , we come from a different angle from other member who have raise important point in the debate . for we it be about job , apprenticeship and our local economy , so I back this Bill and I hope that the House will join I in do so . I want to speak to amendment 3 , table by my hon . friend the Member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) , which deal specifically with coastal erosion . my constituency play host to a whole load of energy infrastructure that be vital to our security and our renewable transition . we have the Bacton energy hub , which be on track to make the exciting transformation from be a key asset in national gas to hydrogen production and carbon capture . it be one of my constituency ' s large employer , but it be also of national significance because of the role it play in our energy ecosystem . it be therefore understandable that , a few year ago , a £ 20 million sandscaping scheme be welcome . it give protection not only to the energy terminal but to the village of Bacton and Walcott that surround it . one local business owner speak of how such a scheme mean he no long feel " trepidation " when he check the weather forecast . just down the coast in the village of Happisburgh , the Norfolk Boreas and the Norfolk Vanguard wind farm make their landfall . Happisburgh have be at the frontline of the coastal erosion suffer in north Norfolk , with 40 home already lose to the ever - encroach North sea . this be a village battle the real - world impact of climate change , and it be do its bit to fight back by host renewable energy infrastructure , but it have have no additional protection . this double standard seem deeply unfair . it be in our interest to protect the renewable energy infrastructure we be build , but it be also in our interest to protect the community that live alongside it . People in Happisburgh have live with the loom threat of coastal erosion and frequently feel left behind or forget about , and it seem as though this be just another example of this happening . I be sure that if there be an erosion risk of this scale in central London or the south - east , the Government would move heaven and earth to take action , but in North Norfolk , right at the eastern edge of our island nation , people feel despondent about the situation they be face . our amendment seek to right this wrong . we believe that when these reform to the Crown Estate allow for new renewable energy product , effort must be make to secure the coastline where they make landfall . renewable be our future , and we have to make sure that the community that host key infrastructure have a future too . I be aware that the Minister do not support this amendment in Committee . I be not expect the recess to have lead he to a Damascene conversion , but I hope that he can provide some reassurance today on how the Government will look at this double standard for energy product and what step they will be take to provide protection to village such as Happisburgh that be do all the right thing but feel they do not get their fair share back . I would also be happy to welcome he and any of his Government colleague to Happisburgh to see the situation for themselves . I honestly believe that bear witness to the way that our coastline be be ravage by climate change , meet the people it affect and understand what we be set to lose will spark anyone into support radical action to stop this come to pass . I would be delighted if the Government could back our amendment today , but if they be unable to do so , I hope that the Minister ' s team will be able to provide promise of progress for the resident of Happisburgh and all the other community who live with the existential threat of coastal erosion . I be on the Bill Committee and I have follow the Bill throughout , mainly because I represent Truro and Falmouth , which have huge potential to benefit from float offshore wind , with Falmouth dock and our position in the Celtic sea . if the build - out in the Celtic sea be do quickly and do well , our young people will benefit from good , well - pay job in a strong local supply chain . I also want to mention the CBI report publish today , which show how the green economy have grow three time fast and have high wage than the national average across the board . we in Falmouth could really do with some of that , so I welcome this Bill . the change to the power of the Crown Estate will enable it , in partnership with GB Energy , to invest in port such as Falmouth without sell its asset , as well as map the seabed and front - load the leasing round and local supply chain . as I say in an early debate , when a college in my constituency be struggle to get funding for a level 2 course on float offshore wind engineering for local 14 to 16 - year - old , the Crown Estate step in with a year ' s funding to allow it to go ahead on a pilot scale . now , with these change , more positive intervention like this could be make , which would be really welcome in place such as Truro and Falmouth , where further education college be struggle to get the go - ahead for these kind of course . new clause 2 deal with marine spatial planning . we need a spatial strategy for the ocean that link energy , fishing and nature restoration , and that have to be do in consultation with all the industry and with environmentalist , but this Bill be not the place to do that . new clause 3 deal with community benefit . community will benefit so much from the economic boost that this Bill will enable , with training and education , good job , supply chain and investment in our port . amendment 2 and 5 cover issue that we discuss in the Bill Committee . I would simply ask the Minister to give an assurance that the public framework will have regard to environmental , regional and economic growth , and social value benefit , and to confirm that this reform will enable the Crown Estate to invest in a wide range of high - impact project across the UK , strengthen float offshore wind , nature recovery and benefit to those regional economy . the partnership between the Crown Estate and GB Energy have real potential to be a huge force for good — we really feel that down in Cornwall . it will spearhead the development of offshore renewable energy in a speedy but sustainable way , invest in energy production initially and lay the groundwork for our energy security of the future , as well as build our local community , our infrastructure and our supply chain in some of the most leave - behind and deprived part of the UK . I rise to speak in support of new clause 4 and to express my party ' s frustration with the Government ' s refusal thus far to devolve the Crown Estate to Wales . it be the firm view of the Liberal Democrats , both here in Westminster and in the Senedd , that this decision be wrong for Wales and its economy . under the current system , the profit generate from Wales ' s vast natural resource flow directly to the UK Treasury , offer no benefit to the community where that wealth be create . the Crown Estate in Wales be set to generate million annually from offshore wind energy lease in Welsh water . if this money be keep within Wales , it could contribute an estimate additional £ 50 million to the Welsh Government ' s budget at a time when public service in Wales be crumble . it be nothing short of outrageous that the Labour Government in Westminster seek to deny Wales these vital source of income , which could help to address the crisis in our public service , economy and infrastructure . the Labour Government ' s refusal to devolve these power far entrench the outrageous notion by Labour and the Conservatives that Wales be a less nation than Scotland . while Scotland have control its Crown Estate since 2017 , Wales , despite have vast Crown Estate asset within its border , have be leave without those power . the benefit of devolution for Scotland have be clear , with the Scottish Crown Estate generate over £ 103 million for the public finance since 2017 . the excuse we have hear from the UK Government for fail to put Wales on an equal footing simply do not hold up . patronise comment from Ministers about how devolve the Crown Estate would not be in Wales ' s " good interest " or would be a " waste of time " be frankly an insult to the people of Wales . this Government claim to support growth , but they seem determined to keep Wales from reach its full potential . instead of empower Welsh community to harness the benefit of their own resource , profit continue to flow directly to London . that be not the vision of growth to benefit local community or level up leave - behind community ; it be a continuation of the Conservatives ' fail economic model , which prioritise centralisation and investment in the south - east of England over everywhere else . it would be a great mistake if those in power in Westminster be to deny Wales the opportunity to build a well future for our community . I hope the Government will change their mind . I wish to primarily address new clause 7 , table by the hon . member for Belfast South and Mid Down ( Claire Hanna ) and for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) , and to express opposition to it . it very much reflect what be in new clause 1 , in term of seek devolution of the Crown Estate , but in this case to the Northern Ireland Executive in respect of the asset there . I oppose that for a number of reason . it presently be a reserved matter , and I strongly believe that be how it should stay . I say that not because that be right ideologically , but because practically it be beyond belief that the current Stormont Executive could ever handle the controversy that come with the Crown Estate . this be an Executive in Stormont that have be in existence for almost 13 month and still can not agree a programme for Government . if we be to hand they something as controversial as control of the Crown Estate , we all know what the outcome would be . why be it controversial ? for one specific and historical reason . Lough Foyle be control and own by the Crown Estate . it be a piece of water that separate County Londonderry , which be in Northern Ireland , from County Donegal , which be in the Republic of Ireland , but the entirety of Lough Foyle since last we have a King Charles rest under british control . in 1662 , Charles II gift Lough Foyle , the surround water , the seabed and the water within it to the Irish Society . the Irish Society be a conglomerate of various company from the City of London , which do a great deal to develop and build the city of Londonderry ; and as part of that , I presume , it be gifted control over Lough Foyle . in 1952 , the Irish Society convey Lough Foyle to the Crown Estate . a divided Executive in Northern Ireland would be hopelessly incapable of resolve the issue that flow from the somewhat controversial aspect of the entirety of Lough Foyle , right up to the coastline of County Donegal , be properly , legally and in perpetuity in the control of the Crown Estate . therefore , devolve the Crown Estate to the Northern Ireland Executive would be disastrous for the good management of the lough and for the uncontroversial continuance of its ability to be develop . that might be a particular situation , but it be in addition to my opposition from an ideological point of view and my belief that the Crown Estate be a national asset that should continue to be of a reserve category . I think the proposition in new clause 7 would be the utmost folly ; I trust that the Government will resist it and that the House will reject it . it be a pleasure to contribute to the debate ; I will follow on from what the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) seek . I want to make a specific request , which I do when I intervene on the hon . member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) . my issue with the provision primarily relate to the fishing sector and the impact on fishing fleet around the whole of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , but particularly in Strangford for Portavogie , and Ardglass and Kilkeel in South Down . I appreciate the opportunity to speak on an issue that affect Crown Estates in the entirety of the United Kingdom . as the Library briefing outline , the Crown Estate focus on activity that align with wide national need , include energy security and sustainable economic growth . it manage the seabed and much of the coastline across England , Wales and Northern Ireland , play a " fundamental role in the sustainable development of this national asset , include the UK ' s world - lead offshore wind sector . " I be not against wind turbine and the green energy they produce , but I be concern about the impact on the fishing sector . I want to state my concern and express my support for the fishing fleet at Portavogie , Ardglass and Kilkeel , where fishing be an important economic sector , provide job and investment . that have be happen for hundred of year , and I want to see that tradition maintain . I hope that when the Minister sum up , he will reassure fishing community that any development will not be to the detriment of the fishing sector . do the hon . Member agree that one of the problem in this territory be that we do not yet have the definition of what be mean to be sustainable ? on read the Bill , it appear that the whole focus of what sustainable will be be on the green energy side , rather than what will sustain the fishing industry . that be the thrust of where I be come from . I be not against the idea of green energy , but I want to ensure the sustainability of the fishing sector over the year . it have be sustainable and still provide job in Kilkeel and Ardglass , and I want it to continue to do so . that would be my concern as well . the fisherman in my area be well aware of the limitation bring about by Crown holding on the coastline , and concern have be express to I regard the partnership announce by the Government for the Crown Estate and great British Energy — the very issue that the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim refer to — to bring forward new offshore wind development . I wholeheartedly welcome renewable energy and attempt to harness the reliable energy of our vast sea and lough , but only inasmuch as they do not stop the fishing sector from operate and be successful . that must always be the key consideration . if we be to lose one of our primary sector in fishing and to gain wind turbine and green energy , that would be something that the Government would have to consider sensibly . similarly , the regeneration and development department in my local Ards and North Down council have highlight the additional red tape that come from lease or alter exist lease to the Crown Estate . that be say , the council be also thankful for the open door and accessibility when need . however , it have be see that there be a willingness to consider the national need when request be make for alteration , and that be appreciate . when we look at the national need , we want to ensure that they do not take away from the local need of those in Strangford , in Ards and North Down and in the fishing fleet and those who own land and farm around the Irish sea and Strangford lough . during 2023 - 24 , the Crown Estate generate a net revenue profit of £ 1 . 1 billion . over the past decade , it have return £ 4 . 1 billion of net revenue profit to the Treasury . we must ensure that the Crown Estate be be run at ultimate capacity and be bring money into our coffer , but also that it have a socially conscious operating model and that it be be use to do good for everyone , include the fishing sector in my constituency . I be very much inspire , as we probably all be , by the Prince of Wales ' s scheme on homelessness , and by the fact that he be use his personal estate , the Duchy of Cornwall , to build 24 home to help tackle homelessness . the construction of the first home in Nansledan , Newquay , be due to be complete in autumn 2025 . that good work should inspire we all to ensure that a Crown Estate operate by a team appoint by the Prime Minister attempt where it can to make such an impact for the common good . my understanding be that the Bill would broaden the scope of activity that the Crown Estate can undertake to support the delivery of its core purpose to include activity across net zero , nature recovery , economic growth — that cover the fishing sector — and more , so that it can generate return for the public purse . the Bill will also enable the Crown Estate to invest in capital - intensive project more effectively . if that be the case , I will support the Bill , as long as we remember our obligation to exist business and partnership , include in the fishing and industrial sector . I welcome the appointment of a commissioner who will have an eye over Northern Ireland . will the Minister reassure I , the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim and other affected Northern Ireland Members that elect representative can have direct contact and discussion with the commissioner on any fishing sector issue that come to our attention ? I welcome the progress of the Crown Estate , and recognise the benefit that will come from improvement , but none of that can be do on the back of exist relationship . the Minister be an honourable man — we know that . he have set out to help we and reassure we on many thing — although , for the record , there have not be too much reassurance lately . I seek assurance for the fishing sector in Strangford , and in South Down . give that the Member of Parliament for that constituency do not even attend Parliament , I find myself with the duty to work on behalf of the fishing fleet in Ardglass and Kilclief . the fishing fleet be all in the boat together — to use a pun — and all need help . if the Minister can reassure we , he may go some way towards reassure the fishing sector , which be not quite sure yet about what be happen . I call the Minister . I thank all hon . member who have contribute to the debate , and provide further detail about their amendment or concern . I start by make it clear that the Government have carefully consider all amendment throughout the passage of the Bill . where we have agree with the intent behind an amendment , we have work hard to find an appropriate way forward . that be evidence in the change make by this House to ensure appropriate protection for our seabed . as a result of change make to the Bill , the Crown Estate will now be require to seek the approval of the Treasury for any permanent disposal of the seabed . I thank the Opposition for a constructive debate on that matter . alongside that , further change make in the other place have help to strengthen the Bill , include change to require the appointment of commissioner with special responsibility for give advice about England , Wales and Northern Ireland ; a reporting requirement in respect of activity with great British Energy ; and a requirement relate to sustainable development . in that spirit , I have consider the amendment that be before we . I thank the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) for table new clause 1 , under which , within two year of the day on which the Act commence , the Treasury must have complete the transfer of responsibility for management of the Crown Estate in Wales to the Welsh Government . it would allow the Treasury , by regulation , to make provision about the transfer relate to reserved matter as necessary , and would require it to ensure that no person in Crown employment have their employment adversely affect by the transfer of responsibility . I also thank the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) for table new clause 4 , to which her colleague , the hon . member for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) , also speak . it would require the Treasury to set out a scheme for transfer all Welsh function of the Crown Estate commissioner to Welsh Ministers or a person nominate by Welsh Ministers . the Welsh function would consist of the property , right or interest in land in Wales , and right in relation to the Welsh zone . as I set out in Committee , the Government believe that there be great benefit for the people of Wales and the wide United Kingdom in retain the Crown Estate ' s current form . new clause 4 would most likely require the creation of a new entity to take on the management of the Crown Estate in Wales — an entity that , by definition , would not benefit from the Crown Estate ' s current substantial capability , capital and system ability . it would far fragment the UK energy market by add an additional entity and , as a consequence , it would risk damage international investor confidence in UK renewable . it would also risk disrupt the National Energy System Operator ' s grid connectivity reform , which be take a whole - system approach to the planning of generation and network infrastructure . those reform aim to create a more efficient system and reduce the time it take for generation project to connect to the grid . I be grateful to the Minister for outline his concern about devolve the Crown Estate to the Welsh Government — he list a number of they . be I right in say that he believe that the devolution of power from the Crown Estate to Scotland have fragment the market , and be in some way to the disbenefit of people in Scotland ? the matter that we be consider today , through the two new clause that I have mention , be the proposal by opposition party for devolution to Wales . we be not analyse what may have happen in Scotland , historically ; we be look at the proposal put to we in those new clause , which I be address . to be clear , the cumulative impact of the change that the hon . member for Ynys M ô n be suggest in her new clause would likely be to significantly delay the pathway to net zero . the Minister say that the Bill would be beneficial to the people of Wales as it stand . could he quantify that benefit , please ? if the right hon . member wait just a moment , I will come to some of the direct benefit for the people of Wales of retain the Crown Estate in its current form . it be important to emphasise that the Crown Estate ' s marine investment be make on a portfolio - wide basis across England and Wales . devolve to Wales would disrupt exist investment , as they would need to be restructure to accommodate a Welsh - specific entity . to devolve the Crown Estate at this time would risk jeopardise the pipeline of offshore wind development in the Celtic sea , which be plan for into the 2030 . the Crown Estate ' s offshore wind lease round 5 be spread across the English and Welsh administrative boundary in the Celtic sea . it be launch in February last year and be expect to contribute 4 . 5 GW of total energy capacity — enough to power 4 million home . in addition to energy , the extensive job and supply chain requirement of round 5 will also likely deliver significant benefit for Wales and the wide United Kingdom . Lumen , an advisory firm to the Crown Estate , have estimate that manufacturing , transport and assemble the wind farm could potentially create around 5 , 300 job and a £ 1 . 4 billion boost for the UK economy . devolution would also delay UK - wide grid connectivity reform . the Crown Estate be use its datum and expertise as manager of the seabed to feed into the National Energy System Operator ' s new strategic spatial energy plan . on Wales , the Crown Estate be work in partnership with the energy system operator to ensure that its pipeline of Welsh project — the big of which be the round 5 offshore wind opportunity in the Celtic sea — can benefit from this co - ordinate approach to grid connectivity up front . if devolution present such enormous barrier , why be the Government choose to put the headquarters of great British Energy in Scotland ? GB Energy be for the benefit of the whole of the UK . it be absolutely right to locate its headquarters in Aberdeen , give the strong connection between Aberdeen and use of the asset of the North sea to generate power for the entire United Kingdom . in fact , the hon . Gentleman ' s example underline my point , which be that when different part of the United Kingdom work together , we can achieve more than we can separately . I thank he for endorse my point . it would not make commercial sense to introduce a new entity , with control of asset only within Wales , into a complex operating environment in which partnership have already be form . furthermore , the Crown Estate ' s asset and interest in Wales be fundamentally small than its asset in England , and would likely not be commercially viable if their cost be unsupported by the wide Crown Estate portfolio . the Crown Estate can take a long - term approach to its investment and spread the cost of investment across its entire portfolio . a self - contain , single entity in Wales would not have the same ability ; neither would it benefit from the expertise that the Crown Estate have develop over decade of deliver offshore wind at scale . a devolved entity would be start from scratch . the Minister have just tell the House that Wales be too small and poor to benefit from the devolution of the Crown Estate . that be an extraordinary argument , and I be sure that the Welsh Government will share my amazement . have he discuss that with his partner in Welsh Labour ? I think the right hon . Member have misunderstand the point I be make . if we be to have a devolve entity , it would be start from scratch midway through a multimillion - pound commercial tendering process , just at a time when the Crown Estate be undertake critical investment in the UK ' s path towards net zero — something I be sure she be keen to support . the commercial viability of all three 1 . 5 GW float offshore wind project development area in the Celtic sea , which straddle the English and Welsh administrative boundary , benefit from the Crown Estate ' s significant investment of time , expertise and capital , which enable their entry into the market . UK float offshore wind , an emerge offshore technology that the Crown Estate be support , would be particularly vulnerable to market disruption . it be important to underline that income generate by the whole Crown Estate benefit the people of Wales . as I have note , the Crown Estate pay its entire net profit into the UK Consolidated Fund each year . that mean that much of the revenue already support public service in Wales , either by support UK Government spending in reserved area or through the funding provide under the Barnett formula and the Welsh Government ' s block grant funding . as I mention in Committee , the Barnett formula be not a fair formula for Wales . in the scottish model , £ 10 million be take out of the block grant , but those community receive £ 103 million back . I think that be a fair exchange . do the Minister not agree ? the hon . Member have highlight that the change make in Scotland lead to a reduction in the block grant to Scotland . the focus of the new clause be the proposal to devolve Crown Estate capability to Wales . as I be set out , that would not make commercial sense when it come to advance great energy capacity , or when it come to increase the Crown Estate ' s net profit , which be of course reinveste in public service right across Wales and other part of the UK . I draw member ' attention to the fact that in the other place , the Government support the inclusion of clause 6 , which require the appointment of commissioner responsible for give advice about England , Wales and Northern Ireland . that will ensure that the Crown Estate ' s board of commissioner continue to work in the good interest of Wales . I seek assurance that the ambitious net zero target will not detrimentally affect the fishing sector . I remember some year ago there be talk of a wind farm just off the coast of Kilkeel , and the fisherman be concerned that it would be in one of their prime fishing sector , where scallop be plentiful . if that continue , the fishing sector could lose out because the Government decide to push for net zero . I seek reassurance that Northern Ireland mp would be able to contact the Northern Ireland commissioner directly , but I ask specifically for a wide assurance about the fishing sector in Northern Ireland — for Portavogie , Ardglass and Kilkeel . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention about the impact on the fishing sector , and I can reassure he that the Crown Estate be commit to the sustainable management of the seabed . as with any developer , the Crown Estate ' s proposal go through the standard planning approval process , which include the relevant environmental assessment . under the Crown Estate ' s strategy , it have an objective to take a leading role in stewarde the natural environment and biodiversity . key to deliver on that aim be manage the seabed in a way that reduce pressure on , and accelerate recovery of , our marine environment . of course , the Bill will not impact directly on how much commercial fishing take place in area manage by the Crown Estate . I point out that the inclusion of clause 6 in the Bill in the other place provide for the appointment of commissioner responsible for give advice about England , Wales and Northern Ireland . the requirement to give advice to the board about Wales will be alongside the commissioner ' exist duty . that change will strengthen the Crown Estate ' s ability to deliver benefit for the whole UK . hon . member may not agree with the point I have make , but I hope that I have set out clearly why the Government believe that the exist structure remain the good approach , and I hope that hon . member will feel that they do not need to press their new clause to a vote . new clause 2 , which be table by the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire , would require the Crown Estate to ensure that any decision about marine spatial priority be co - ordinated with the priority of the Marine Management Organisation , and to consult any community or industry impact by the plan , include fishing community . I confirm that the Crown Estate and the Marine Management Organisation already have well establish way of work together to ensure effective collaboration for marine spatial planning and prioritisation . the Crown Estate ' s collaboration with the Marine Management Organisation and other relevant statutory body be govern by the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 . the Act establish the framework for marine planning and licensing in the UK , and it require the Crown Estate to have regard to marine policy document , such as marine plan , in its decision making . the work of the Crown Estate be also govern by the habitat regulation , which require it to conduct plan - level habitat regulation assessment for leasing or licensing activity . furthermore , in 2020 the Crown Estate and the Marine Management Organisation jointly agree a statement of intent , which be review periodically to provide a focus on priority and opportunity for alignment . that statement of intent complement a memorandum of understanding agree in February 2011 , which set out a framework to encourage co - operation between party in relation to the sustainable development of the seabed and right manage by the Crown Estate . we will not be press this new clause to a vote , but the new investment and borrowing power change the context for the 2020 memorandum of understanding . I ask for reassurance that we might seek a new memorandum of understanding between the Marine Management Organisation and the Crown Estate . I thank the hon . member for her intervention . as I say , the Crown Estate and the Marine Management Organisation agree the statement of intent in 2020 , and it be review periodically to focus on priority and opportunity for alignment . that may provide an opportunity for review in due course to ensure that it meet current aim . in addition to the Crown Estate ' s relationship with the Marine Management Organisation , there be various regulatory requirement on developer who lease area of the seabed from the Crown Estate to engage with the Marine Management Organisation themselves . those include requirement through marine licensing . developer must obtain marine licence from the Marine Management Organisation for activity that could impact on the marine environment . that process involve consultation with statutory body and adherence to marine plan policy . as part of a marine licence application , developer must conduct environmental impact assessment for project that could significantly alter the environment . that include consultation with the Marine Management Organisation and other relevant authority . developer be furthermore encourage to engage with local community , statutory body and other stakeholder throughout the planning and development process to address concern and ensure compliance with marine plan . I welcome the indication from the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire that she feel able to withdraw the new clause , and I hope I have go some way to address the point that she make . new clause 3 , which be also table by the hon . member , would require the commissioner to assess plan for benefit to local community and coastal community in respect of offshore activity before make any investment decision . it would also require the commissioner to transfer at least 5 % of the Crown Estate ' s net profit to local community impact by its activity . as I set out in Committee , local community benefit economically from onshore and offshore development — for example , through job creation and increase business for local supplier . local community will also benefit in the long term as the country transition away from volatile fossil fuel market towards clean , domestically produce power , enhance Britain ' s energy independence and security . as I highlight in Committee , the Crown Estate have specifically design the leasing process for its offshore wind lease round 5 in the Celtic sea to require developer to make commitment to deliver social and environmental value . tender bidder must think about how their development can encourage healthy , more resilient and more prosperous community , create last benefit that extend beyond the lifetime of wind farm lease . those commitment will be monitor , report on and enforce throughout the lifetime of the relevant round 5 development . as I have lay out before , the Crown Estate be commit to proactively work with local community and partner to enable employment and skill opportunity . as I mention in Committee , it have invest £ 50 million through the supply chain accelerator to stimulate green job and develop a green skill pipeline . it be support development in the skill we need for the future , through measure that range from a GCSE in engineering skill for offshore wind , seed - fund by the Crown Estate and develop with Cornwall college , to a post - 16 destination renewable course with Pembrokeshire college . it be also partner with the employment charity Workwhile to create green construction apprenticeship . the Crown Estate already work closely with community , charity , business and the government to ensure that its skill initiative be sensitive to market demand and emerge technology . while I respect the concern reflect in new clause 3 , the Government consider it important that the Crown Estate retain flexibility in how its skill initiative be fund and deliver . that enable it to contribute to skill training in the good possible way , while — importantly — not conflict with its statutory duty to maintain and enhance the value of the estate . on that basis , I hope that the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire feel able to withdraw the new clause . new clause 5 seek to limit the ability of the Crown Estate to dispose of asset without Treasury approval , by require it to seek consent for disposal of asset total 10 % or more of its total asset in a single year . it would also require the Chancellor to lay a report before Parliament within 28 day of be notify of disposal above that threshold . as the Government have set out both in Committee and in the other place , in our view impose a limit on disposal would undermine the flexibility need to enable the Crown Estate to operate commercially and meet its core duty under the Act . it be important to emphasise that the Bill be not intend materially to alter the independence of the Crown Estate . require the Treasury to approve the Crown Estate ' s ordinary business transaction , which may well be catch by the new clause , would encroach on the independence of the Crown Estate . that be inconsistent with the Government ' s vision for the Crown Estate . the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) have concern that the Crown Estate could choose to sell off critical or significant asset — indeed , he raise that point in Committee . I reassure the House that strong safeguard be already in place to ensure that the Crown Estate maintain and enhance the estate . the first be a legislative safeguard , namely the statutory duty on the Crown Estate to maintain and enhance the value of the estate , and the return obtain from it , while have due regard to the requirement of good management . those be set out in the Crown Estate Act 1961 and will remain unchanged by the Bill . the second be a requirement set out in the framework document that govern the relationship between the Treasury and the Crown Estate . that document be clear that the Crown Estate should inform the Treasury of any matter concern spending , income or finance that be novel , contentious or repercussive . the Government ' s view be that that capture any propose sale of nationally significant asset — a point the shadow Minister raise . I recognise that he may not agree , but I hope he understand the Government ' s position on the matter and , as a result , feel able to withdraw his new clause . the shadow Minister also table new clause 6 , which would require the Chancellor to lay before Parliament any partnership agreement between the Crown Estate and great british Energy . as I make clear in Committee , partnership agreement be highly commercially sensitive . it be therefore right that any agreement be not make public or lay before Parliament , as to do so would likely prejudice the commercial interest of the Crown Estate or great British Energy . I hope the hon . Member feel that he do not need to push the new clause to a vote . I will consider amendment 1 and 4 together to try to make progress as speedily as I can , Madam Deputy Speaker . they would impose a legislative limit on the amount of borrowing that could be undertake by the Crown Estate , and both would require the Government to introduce affirmative regulation , set out a borrowing limit of no more than a 25 % net debt - to - asset value ratio . I thank hon . member for their contribution on this matter . the Government recognise that borrowing control be an important consideration for the Bill . as such , the Government make available the Crown Estate ' s business case , as well as the underpin memorandum of understanding , which set out the guardrail that will protect against uncontrolled or excessive borrowing . the key principle be whether a specific limit should be set in legislation . as I have set out previously , it remain the Government ' s view that limit on borrowing be well set outside of legislation in a memorandum of understanding . I have listen to the point make by the hon . member for North West Norfolk that a limit outside legislation can be easily change , but I reassure the House that the Bill have be carefully draft to include strong control , specifically the requirement for Treasury consent . alongside that , the exist requirement for the Crown Estate to maintain and enhance the value of the estate , while have due regard for the requirement of good management , be maintain . take together , those element provide clear guardrail around the ability of the Crown Estate to borrow . amendment 2 , table by the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire , would require any framework document publish by the Chancellor of the Exchequer , the Crown Estate or the commissioner to define " sustainable development " . that definition would be require to include a reference to a " climate and nature duty " , which would mean " a duty to achieve any target set out under Part 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 or under section 1 to 3 of the Environment Act 2021 . " as I set out in Committee , the Government understand the intention behind amendment 2 , but a key purpose of the 1961 Act be to repeal various detailed statutory provision that have build up over the previous 150 year , which be hamper the effective management of the estate . by focus the commissioner ’ duty on enhance the estate ' s value and the return generate , the commissioner have a clear objective on which they can be hold to account . it be an important principle that give an organisation too many objective will make it far less effective than give it clear and focused priority , and , as I set out in Committee , the Crown Estate be a commercial business , independent from Government , that operate for profit . that mandate be unchanged by the Bill — [ interruption . ] I be get vibe from the Whip , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I might not respond as fully as I have hope to some of the remain amendment . however , I will address amendment 5 , which I know matter to several Labour Members who have speak to it . amendment 5 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) , would require the commissioner , when keep the impact of their activity under review with respect to clause 3 , to have regard to the UK ' s net zero target , regional economic growth and resilience of energy security . I thank my hon . friend for the discussion that he and I have on this topic both before Committee and last week . a version of the amendment be debate in Committee . I particularly thank my hon . friend the Members for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) , for St Austell and Newquay ( Noah Law ) and for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) for engage with I on this matter , and set out so clearly what be important to they in the constituency they represent . although I understand the sentiment behind my hon . friend ' s amendment , it be perhaps helpful to set out the context behind clause 3 . the clause be support by the Government in the other place , as it seek to clarify and enhance the accountability of the Crown Estate to deliver on environmental , social and economic outcome . clause 3 will require the commissioner to keep under review the impact of their activity on the achievement of sustainable development in the United Kingdom . I emphasise that the public framework document , which govern the relationship between the Crown Estate and the Treasury , will be update in light of that clause , and will include a definition of " sustainable development " , as I have set out several time . the Crown Estate will continue to include information on its activity in its annual report , which be lay before Parliament . the Government ' s intention throughout the passage of the Bill have be to ensure that it can stand the test of time without need for regular update . that , in part , be why the term " sustainable development " be adopt . I hope I have address some of the concern raise by hon . member , although I regret I be not able to address all the amendment with quite the level of detail I have hope . as I make clear early , the Government have carefully consider all amendment throughout the passage of the Bill , and I hope that hon . member will understand the approach we be take . I thank my hon . friend the Members for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) , for Wolverhampton North East ( Mrs Brackenridge ) , for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) , and for Rushcliffe ( James Naish ) for powerfully set out the benefit that the Crown Estate and measure in the Bill will provide to people in their constituency and across the country . I hope all hon . member will understand the approach we be take , and support our targeted and measure change to ensure that the Crown Estate be able to operate independently , commercially and in the national interest . Diolch , Madam Dirprwy Lefarydd . the Government have try to explain how devolution and the creation of a Welsh Crown Estate would undermine investor confidence , but that have not be the case for the devolve Scottish Crown Estate , which have raise £ 700 million from offshore wind investment since 2022 . a devolved Crown Estate could lead to great alignment and integration with the economy in Wales , as have be the case in Scotland . with a well - manage transition , there be no evidence that disruption would occur . devolution would also offer opportunity to strengthen the role of the local supply chain to be use and to actually see the 5 , 300 job that the Government claim will be create for the people of Wales . I remind hon . member that it be project that child poverty number will reach 34 . 4 % in Wales in five year ' time , at the end of this decade , but the Joseph Rowntree Foundation say that the forecast in Scotland be 19 . 8 % . I refer hon . member to the word of a former Secretary of State for Wales , Lord Peter Hain . he recently say that oppose devolution of the Crown Estate " reflect old , centralised , conservative , anti - devolution whitehall thinking . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 14 October 2024 ; Vol . 840 , c . 18 . ] Labour promise we that a Labour Government in Wales and a Labour Government in Westminster would benefit the people of Wales . this Labour Government do not show any ambition for the people of Wales , and I ask every Member who want to see the good for Wales to join I in the Aye Lobby . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Ann Davies Carla Denyer Tim Farron Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Ben Lake James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Calum Miller Iqbal Mohamed Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Luke Taylor Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Claire Young Bobby Dean Si â n Berry Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 59 , Noes 316 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 6 - Partnership agreement : the Crown Estate and great british Energy " the Chancellor of the Exchequer must lay before Parliament any partnership agreement between the Crown Estate and great British Energy . " — ( James Wild . ) this new clause require the Chancellor of the Exchequer to lay before Parliament any partnership agreement between the Crown Estate and great british Energy . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Peter Fortune George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Helen Grant Alison Griffiths John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Llinos Medi Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Mel Stride Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jerome Mayhew Ashley Fox Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 100 , Noes 312 . question accordingly negative . clause 1 - power of Crown Estate Commissioners to borrow etc Amendment propose : 4 , page 1 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must limit borrowing by the Crown Estate under this section by regulation make by statutory instrument , and these regulation may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 4 ) the first set of regulation make under subsection ( 3 ) must limit borrowing to a net debt to asset value ratio of no more than 25 per cent . " — ( James Wild . ) this amendment would limit the amount the Commissioners may borrow by regulation subject to the affirmative procedure for statutory instrument . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Tim Farron Peter Fortune Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Monica Harding John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Calum Miller Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Mel Stride Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Claire Young Jerome Mayhew Ashley Fox Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Ellie Chowns Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 153 , Noes 316 . question accordingly negative . clause 3 - sustainable development Amendment propose : 2 , page 2 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 3b ) any framework document publish by the Chancellor of the Exchequer , the Crown Estate and the Commissioners must define ' sustainable development ' for the purpose of this Act . ( 3c ) the definition under subsection ( 3b ) must include reference to a climate and nature duty . ( 3d ) a ' climate and nature duty ' mean a duty to achieve any target set out under Part 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 or under section 1 to 3 of the Environment Act 2021 . " — ( Pippa Heylings . ) this amendment would ensure that this act ' s Framework Agreement must define " sustainable development " , and that the definition must include reference to a climate and nature duty . question put , that the amendment be make . Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Tim Farron Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Ben Lake James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Mike Martin Llinos Medi Calum Miller Iqbal Mohamed Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Liz Saville - Roberts Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Robin Swann Luke Taylor Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Claire Young Susan Murray Charlie Maynard Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 61 , Noes 316 . question accordingly negative . third read King ' s consent signify . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . the Crown Estate be an independent commercial business with a varied portfolio of asset across London , and with marine , rural and urban holding . it operate for profit and compete in the marketplace for investment opportunity . however , it be govern by legislation that have not change since 1961 . that be why the Bill be focus on modernise the Crown Estate by remove limitation that , if unchanged , would hamper its ability to compete and invest as a commercial business . the central aim of the Bill have be to ensure that the Crown Estate have a sustainable future for decade to come . through these target and measure change to its found legislation , particularly in respect of its investment and borrowing power , the Government be build on the Crown Estate ' s strong track record of success in create long - term prosperity for the nation . the change will ensure that the Crown Estate have flexibility to support sustainable project and preserve our heritage for generation to come . crucially , the measure will unlock more long - term investment , help to drive growth across the UK . the Bill have be strengthen and improve in its passage through both Houses . it have be amend to require the Crown Estate ' s board to include commissioner with special responsibility for give advice about England , Wales and Northern Ireland . that will ensure that the Crown Estate continue to work in the good interest of the UK . there have also be change to strengthen its transparency and accountability , for example through the requirement for the Crown Estate to report on its activity under the partnership with Great British Energy , and the requirement to keep its activity under review with regard to the achievement of sustainable development . I thank all hon . member and all noble Lords in the other place for their thorough consideration and scrutiny of the Bill , and for the many and varied amendment that have be table and debate . I also thank everyone who have play a role in get the Bill to this stage , include my colleague in the Treasury , Members from across the House who take the time to provide scrutiny , all the parliamentary staff who work on the Bill , and the official in my Department who have put in a significant amount of time and effort . I be grateful for the broad support for the Bill from across all Benches . it will ensure that the Crown Estate can operate successfully for many more decade to come . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank hon . member from across the House , and my noble friend , who have work hard to scrutinise this important legislation . I also thank the Exchequer Secretary for the constructive approach he have take throughout these proceeding , as do the Financial Secretary , particularly on seabed protection , as well as the Public Bill Office , and everyone who have help to scrutinise the Bill . there be support across the House for the aim of the Bill , which will deliver the modernisation that the Crown Estate need , and should generate great return for the Exchequer . we be disappointed , however , that the Government have resist our proposal for great transparency and appropriate parliamentary oversight , include on borrowing . similarly , the Crown Estate be about to embark on a novel partnership with GB Energy , and the lack of clarity around that partnership — notwithstanding the limited transparency through the annual report — be a concern . it raise concern about the political pressure that may be bring to bear on the partnership to persuade it to fund the Energy Secretary ' s costly plan . notwithstanding those concern , we support the legislation . however , we will be watch carefully to ensure that the primary purpose of the Crown Estate — to maintain and enhance its asset for the benefit of the nation , as well as the income derive from it — be protect . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Social Security that the draft Mesothelioma Lump Sum Payments ( Conditions and Amounts ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 9 January , be approve . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Pneumoconiosis etc . ( worker ' Compensation ) ( payment of Claims ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 9 January , be approve . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . business of the House Ordered , that notice of amendment , new Clauses and new schedule to be move in Committee in respect of the Church of Scotland ( Lord High Commissioner ) Bill may be accept by the Clerks at the table before it have be read a second time . — ( Lucy Powell . ) Environmental Audit Ordered , that Sammy Wilson be a member of the Environmental Audit Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Bank closure : Rural Areas Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) we now have the enjoyable prospect of an Adjournment debate last an hour and a half , which I know will fill the Minister with joy . I can see the boyish smile on his face — he just can not contain himself . I do not intend to take an hour and a half , although a number of colleague from across the House have indicate that they wish to intervene . I be very pleased to have secure this debate . it be clear that our banking world be go through a period of transition . there be change in technology ; there be the move — some would say at too high a speed — towards a soon - to - be cashless society ; and there be the cost of run branch , which include insurance , business rate , staff cost and the like . I know full well that the closure of a high - street bank hit an area hard , whether the area be urban or rural . however , North Dorset be a rural constituency , and the thrust of my thesis be that the impact be feel disproportionately hard in rural community than in an urban setting . why do I say that ? I do not believe that North Dorset be unique in how it operate . [ interruption . ] heckle from the cheap seat . our market town operate on a hub - and - speak model : the market town grow , and the village be magnetise towards it , which be good for business large and small across the sector , as we all recognise . it be also good for community cohesion at a time when we be all rightly concerned about rural exclusion and isolation ; it bring people together . our rural area , by accident rather than by design , contain a disproportionately high number of retired or elderly people . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will , although the hon . Gentleman be neither retired nor elderly . the hon . Gentleman be very kind . I commend he on bring forward this debate . he be right to highlight elderly people . social isolation be an issue for many people , not just those who be elderly or vulnerable , and it be worsen by the loss of basic banking . the hon . Gentleman tell I before the debate that he have lose 14 bank . I have lose 11 bank in my constituency in Northern Ireland , which mean that go to the bank become an all - day job , take bus and make connection . do he agree that there be a moral obligation on bank to ensure that they look after their customer ? indeed , if the bank do not do it under a moral obligation , do he think it be time for the Minister to make legislation to make it a legal obligation ? I agree . I will certainly come on to what I be ask the Government to consider , but the hon . Gentleman be right to talk about social isolation . we have lose 14 bank in my constituency since 2015 . in 440 square mile , we have five bank remain . we have have a fall of 74 % . across the county of Dorset , which include the major conurbation of Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole , we have have a decrease of 68 % overall , with 101 branch close and only 48 remain in the whole of the county . eight parliamentary constituency be serve by just 48 bank . my constituent Deborah Jones make a good point in response to a recent announcement by Lloyds that it be close its branch in Blandford Forum , a market town in my constituency with a large village hinterland . with the exception of Nationwide , it now have no proper , traditional high street branch . the hon . Member mention Nationwide . my understanding be that 142 town in the UK do not have a bank , and many be leave only with a building society . it seem that the bank have exit while the building society have stay behind . I would appreciate his thought on what that say about the lack of community cohesion as a result of lose those bank . often we be lose post office at the same time . the hon . Lady be right . she allow I to pause to pay tribute to the Post Office and to member of the Association of Convenience Stores , which have step in to provide some level of service in those area where the bank have go . that bring I to one of my key ask of the bank , and the Minister as well . yet again , a rubric seem to be use to argue in favour of closure that be blind to whether it be an urban or a rural setting . that differential need to be take into account . will my hon . friend give way ? I will , but I just want to make the point that be well make by my constituent in her email . she be a customer of Lloyds in Blandford and she do online banking , but during the storm , her digital service be down . she need to do some important banking and have no way of do it . she ask how her 92 - year - old mother - in - law , who no long drive and do not use the internet or have a mobile phone , be to contact her bank . at the moment , she be take into Blandford every Wednesday for shopping and can pop into the bank . what will she do ? she be a very independent lady and not ready to hand over all her affair to a family member just because they have internet access . a number of organisation have draw attention to that issue , such as Age UK in 2023 . but before I get to that , I give way to my right hon . friend . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this important debate . in Leek in my constituency we be about to lose our last two bank . we will be leave with a building society with a cashpoint and the post office , yet Link have do a review suggest that we do not need a banking hub because there be sufficient branch 9 or 10 mile away . that do not take account of rurality . we be a market town with , as he rightly describe , a hub - and - speak model , and it simply be not possible for elderly people to get to those other bank branch that be not easily accessible and be not on bus route . do he agree that rurality and topography be incredibly important and should be consider when decide on banking hub ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . when a bank close in my constituency on an early occasion , I remember it tell I , " if customer need to talk to an actual person , they could use the branch in Poole . " I explain that that be right , but it would take two day out of the week , because those customer would have to get a bus to Poole , book a hotel , stay over and get the return bus the follow day . it do sound a little bit nonsensical . I be therefore grateful to my right hon . friend for underline the point that I be seek to make : there must be rural - proofing of the rubric for these decision in the first instance and a well understanding of the geography of our rural area as well as of the lack of public transport or other connectivity between the two place . it be easy — dare I say it — if one represent Ealing , where the Minister be from . there be plenty of bus and tube , and heaven know what else , that I have no doubt will take the people around Ealing . North Dorset do not have those thing , and nor do many of our rural area , but I just do not think that point be recognise by the bank . rise — rise — let I make a little progress and I will give way first to my hon . friend and then to the hon . Gentleman . at the heart of everything this place do , we must think about social inclusion and try to deliver service that meet the need of a wide range of our population . accord to Age UK , four in 10 adult over the age of 65 do not bank online , and three quarter of those who be over 65 have express the very clear desire that they wish to bank in person . the over - 80 , people with disability and those on low income disproportionately want physical facility , and yet they be be deny they . as the Royal National Institute of Blind People point out , in my constituency alone there be , I think , 4 , 170 constituent who be either blind or partially sight . they be unable to conduct banking online . why be we exclude they from the personal management of their financial affair ? I congratulate my hon . friend on obtain this debate , which have attract a large number of colleague ; he have touch a nerve . may I enter a plea on behalf of coastal town such as Harwich , which suffer exactly the same difficulty as somewhere like Blandford Forum ? in Harwich , the tsb have close down and the Halifax have close down , and that be affect business in the town . business need a banking hub . the Government have really get to come up with a solution , and a single hub represent all these financial institution must be able to provide some kind of efficiency . I very much look forward to hear my hon . friend ' s proposal . I be grateful to my hon . friend . his constituency , and indeed a lot of our coastal community , will have that profile of constituent that be old and more settled , and they will want to see thing deliver in the way that they be use to . that do not mean that they shun change completely , but they do have a legitimate expectation . let I take the House briefly through the timeline narrative of justification , and then I will give way to the hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) . you and I , Madam Deputy Speaker , as part of that great Tory intake of 2015 — those be the day ; it be nearly 10 year — will remember be tell that there would never be a town without a bank . will my hon . friend give way on that point ? let I just finish this point . that be the first promise , but it seem to disappear quite quickly . then the Post Office come in , and then there seem to be an over - reliance on build society . I notice that nationwide — I think it be nationwide ; I could be wrong — be say in its television advertisement that it pledge not to close a branch before 2028 , but it be under exactly the same cost and other pressure as its high street competitor . then we be tell that the answer to the maiden ' s prayer be go to be the banking hub , but there have be quite a lot of disappointment surround that . I suggest to the Minister that that be in part to do with the erroneous conflation of access to cash and access to banking service . Link have assess , perfectly properly , that in Blandford there be atm at the local Tesco , at the local Morrison ' s and at Nationwide , but just try ask an ATM to amend or set up a standing order or direct debit . a small businessman or businesswoman who want to extend their line of credit or have a question mark over something can not ask an ATM those question . say that there be access to cash , as important as that is , be far too blunt an instrument when try to assess the impact of these closure . North Dorset be quite far away from the north - east , but many of the issue the hon . Gentleman be talk about be issue that I be encounter in my constituency as well . the rural side of my constituency in East Cleveland contain many village and town with high deprivation and high rurality , and I be endeavour to get a banking hub in one of those town that have lose access to bank over many year . do he agree that deprivation need to be include as a metric alongside rurality ? I agree absolutely . a more sensitive and refined definition of the hub - and - speak model be also need . if we look at the resident catchment of a market town , we can construct a compelling argument that a proposal for a hub do not stack up , but we must add in the thousand of people who live in the village that look to it and be magnetise to it , and who will spend more money in those business , and the business themselves — not just individual — who use those business . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? let I give way to my hon . friend from Surrey and then I will give way to the hon . Lady . I would not like to claim that I be the Member of Parliament for the whole of Surrey . my Hampshire resident would not be pleased about that . just last Friday , the Barclays bank in Farnham close , leave the whole of my constituency of 101 , 000 people with just one bank , Santander , and one building society , nationwide . we be lucky enough to have a banking hub in Haslemere , and we be go to get another one in Whitehill and Bordon — Liphook do not have one — but give that there be only 100 banking hub across the country and that the Government say they be go to put forward 350 , do my hon . friend agree that the Government be go to have to turbocharge those banking hub , not just for access to cash , but more especially , as he mention , for proper banking service for resident in rural constituency ? I agree entirely with my hon . friend who represent Surrey and part of Hampshire . I would be happy for the Minister to write to I on this point if it be easy , but it strike I that there be scope for a little bit of wiggle room with regard to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 . the Act do not give the Financial Conduct Authority power to reflect on and assess wide banking service . the Minister ' s party , when in opposition , be very keen that it should do so . when my party be in government , for some unknown reason we resist amendment to that effect , and Labour , then in opposition , do not push they to a Division . I just think that there be too gape a lacuna in all of this , in that it be only access to cash that be assess , and not access to banking service . will my hon . friend give way ? let I give way to the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , then I will give way to my hon . friend . the hon . Gentleman be make an excellent speech outline the issue . in North Shropshire , four of my five market town have lose all their bank and only two of they will get a banking hub . do he agree that we need to look at a much wide area to make those banking hub work , because people who work in small hamlet and village without access to public transport simply can not access one that be maybe 20 mile away ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . again , I hope that any of the bank or regulator who may listen in or read the report will understand that this be not an issue that divide by party ; it affect constituent across the country irrespective of which party represent they in this place . the key point be to have a proper assessment of rurality and the differential of live in a rural area compare with an urban area . I commend the Government for their support for hub , but they need to be more physical and robust in drive they forward . it be almost as if the bank be mark their own homework as to whether the argument in favour of a hub stack up . as Sarah Coles of Hargreaves Lansdown comment a year or so ago : " the closure of bank branch be a vicious circle . the more that close , the more people move online " . of course , by definition , the more people move online , the more that almost hollow out the argument to justify create a hub . I understand that initially the bank be slightly reticent , just as the mobile phone operator be about share mast — that somehow client would be pinch and all the rest of it — but the hub be a shared facility jointly finance by the bank . those bank need to remember that they be still in business principally due to the good will of the british taxpayer and the Exchequer during the financial crash of 2008 , who keep our banking sector afloat . they owe a little bit of payback , as a number of my constituent have be keen to point out . the hub seem to work and fill that gap ; but as I say , mark one ' s own homework and set the rubric to decide whether a hub will work be not right . the Treasury could take a more engaged and proactive leadership role on the matter . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important and timely debate . I certainly spend a lot of my recess look at banking hub , especially in a town call Ellon in my constituency , which have recently lose its last bank . Ellon be a large town of over 7 , 000 people , and if the surround village be include , it be get up towards 11 , 000 people . however , it do not qualify for a banking hub . Link have not give its permission to have a banking hub , say that there be not enough business in the town . it do not take into account , for example , the farming business , and the rural nature of the area , as we have touch on , be not take into account in the criterion set out by Link . I be glad that my hon . Friend mention the importance of " rural - proof " the condition that Link look at to deliver a banking hub . I hope that this debate and the Minister ' s response will put some pressure on Link to look more holistically at the rural environment when it come to consider hub , because place like Ellon need a banking hub . I be grateful to my hon . friend , because again she enhance and underline the argument that I have be deploy , and for which colleague across the House have be kind enough to add their support . I suppose my annoyance be that the people who write the policy , whether they be the regulator or those in the bank boardroom , do not know what live in a rural area be like . if they be in the Square Mile , they be not part of a rural community . they may have a getaway weekend retreat that they dash off to in their personalised number - plate Land Rover or Range Rover , in which they take their food down from Waitrose , before come back to London on the Sunday , but that be not live in a rural area . that be not run a business in a rural area . rise — I give way to the hon . member for North Northumberland , which really be a rural area . I thank the hon . member for secure the debate . he mention the Square Mile there . in my constituency of North Northumberland — the third large in England — there be eight branch in 2 , 100 square kilometre . that have go down by 64 % since 2015 . I want to highlight a point raise elsewhere in the debate . banking hub be important and , like other member , I be push for they in my constituency ; but again , the role of the Post Office in those banking service be key . we have to fight together as a community to secure Wooler post office . I must give credit to Glendale Gateway Trust for secure that . do the hon . Member agree that post office be absolutely vital and part of the solution to this problem ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . in many respect — [ interruption . ] I be begin to get paranoid ; I hear voice . he be absolutely right to make the point that he do . I pay tribute to how the Post Office have step up . very often , in provide that sort of transactional bank service , it have support the continuance of rural post office , which can often be marginal and fragile business themselves . again , I think it an easy crutch to lean on to say , " well , of course , the post office do this . " we can all applaud what post office do , but customer can not use they to talk to someone from their bank to discuss their overdraft , loan , mortgage , business credit card maximum or whatever it may happen to be . I say to the Minister that we want our local business and small and medium enterprise to flourish — small , micro and family - own business be very much the hallmark of a rural economy — and they have the great need , on a more regular basis , for that relationship with their bank . then , the bank know the nature of the business and its long - term viability , and they can build that relationship . will the hon . member give way a second time ? for a second time , of course . I be grateful to he for give way a second time . he be make an important point . one of the thing that I have always find interesting be that when a bank have close in North East Fife , it offer to deliver not an access - to - cash service but some kind of pop - up banking advice service in the constituency . that suggest to I that bank know very well that give banking service advice be important . instead of do it as a sop for a number of month before give up , they need to do it on a more regular and permanent basis . the hon . Lady be again absolutely right . surely it make good commercial sense for high street bank , as we use to call they — increasingly , they be not particularly high street bank — to be able to tout their ware to exist or potential customer . that be how to generate business : by have a presence . a hub make a very good presence for they all , but they seem to move at the speed of the slow , and if one be not particularly convince , the whole thing sort of seem to fall down . I know that the Government be try to do more on that , but I think they could do even more to turbocharge it . Falmouth be to have a banking hub . we be lose our last bank ; Lloyds be go at the end of the year . the interesting thing about that be that the banking hub will be open 9 to 5 , five day a week — and potentially even more — whereas the bank be very slowly cut their opening hour after covid , and it be hard to find a bank outside school hour . that of course do not help rural business , which could not get there in time . the hon . Lady be right . the cynic might suggest that the opening hour be set in order to try to deliberately reduce footfall — possibly . that might be hugely cynical , and if it be , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will plead guilty as charge . will my hon . friend indulge I a second time ? who could refuse ? my hon . friend be so very generous to indulge I a second time during his excellent speech . I be strike by the impact on charity . as any trustee of a charity will know , trustee quite regularly have to prove their identity at the bank that the charity choose to bank with . when it be simply not possible for trustee to get to a branch of the bank to prove their identity , the impact on rural charity will be devastating . I admire my right hon . friend ' s perseverance in ever try to change the signatory on a charity bank account . People have die of boredom and exasperation try to do it . a 60 - year - old have to turn up with their great grandparent , their first cat and everything else to prove who they be . the fact that the bank have know they as a private customer for year seem to pass it by . I hope I have make my point to the Minister , but let I rehearse they very briefly in bullet point form . one concern the rubric to defend a bank closure . the assessment of access to cash need a rural dimension , and there need to be a much more granular understanding of the hub - and - speak geography of a rural economy , which be very different from an urban one . we need to move away pretty quickly from merely assess as satisfactory access to cash as define by access to an ATM . we need to turbocharge the delivery of hub and bring pressure to bear on the bank , and there be a variety to do that . it can be carrot and stick , through tax and other policy , to try to nudge they to move at a fast pace . I hope , however , that the Government will take the lead on social inclusion for our rural area , reflect the fact that they have far more small , independent shop and business , and that the population be disproportionately old and / or retire and deal with disability , infirmity , frailty and so on . those thing should be take into account , and I remain to be convince that they be . I think an opportunity exist to amend the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 to give the FCA great power to look at wide banking service , not just cash . our rural community struggle . our economy be fragile , and wage be usually low than in urban counterpart . another bank closure be not just another bank closure in a rural market town . although I welcome banking hub , I be increasingly concerned that bank see they as an excuse to accelerate the closure of core service . do the hon . Gentleman agree that pressure need to be apply , first and foremost , to the bank to keep branch open on the high street , and that banking hub should remain as an infill as oppose to be see as the solution ? that be the danger when we , as a collective , talk so frequently about banking hub . the hon . Gentleman make an interesting point . I think the trend have be pretty clear , and the goalpost have move . from late 2008 or 2009 through to about 2015 or 2016 , I think the Government could and should have be much tough and more exact , but we be where we be . I take his point and I understand it , but let we not let the delivery of the good be sacrifice in pursuit of the excellent , which seem unattainable . I think the trend in what the bank be do be pretty well set , and it be probably irreversible . all sort of thing play into that . what I think be arrestable be the attitude of , " we will pull out even if we be the last branch open , and somebody else will pick up the slack " — principally the Post Office — or " we expect our customer to travel great distance to find a bank that be open and can help they . " that may require a number of visit in the case of something like an overdraft . that be where the idea of a hub come in . I understand that we be due to have our first hub in Dorset at some point this year — in Sherborne , in the constituency of the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) — but North Dorset need one as well . I will certainly be campaign for one in Blandford . I would value the support of the Treasury Bench to emphasise to the bank that they have a duty of care to their customer , and they can not just cut they adrift and say , " make your own way . find an alternative . beat a path to another branch . it be terribly inconvenient for you , but that be what we be tell you to do , because we have no social responsibility at all . " for the sake of our rural community , economy and business , for charity and the farming community , and for a host of other people who want that personal interaction because they do not have access to the internet , or do not want to use online banking or an app and so on , there should be a bank teller , as we use to call they , from a bank , in a hub at set time , to help their customer . by so do they will not damage our rural and market town economy as much as many of we fear , and as many hon . member have attest to in this short debate . I commend the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) for secure this debate . he have ensure that the view and concern of his constituent have be hear by Ministers this evening , and he have set out the particular dynamic of the role of banking hub in rural community . the fact that he receive so many intervention from other hon . member underscore how important this issue be to constituent across the country , and I thank he for secure this important debate . it might be helpful if I outline some of the context around this issue . in recent year , people across the UK have reap the benefit of the transformation of the UK ' s banking sector , particularly the enhance accessibility and convenience afford by remote banking . for example , in 2017 40 % of UK adult regularly use a bank branch , but by 2022 only 21 % of UK adult do so , and almost nine in 10 bank online or use a mobile app . notably , that include 65 % of the over - 75 . however , the Government recognise that those change have present considerable challenge for other . bank branch closure can have a particular impact on rural community give the distance to alternative — indeed , we hear example of that from the hon . member for North Dorset , and other hon . member who intervene to highlight specific case and to draw the House ' s attention to the challenge face their constituent . I assure hon . member , and the people they represent , that this Government understand the importance of face - to - face banking , and banking access , to local community and high street . our objective be to ensure that people and business have access to banking service , support local community and local economic growth . work on that be well under way , and we be work closely with bank to open 350 banking hub by the end of this Parliament . my right hon . friend the Chancellor mark the opening of the 100th banking hub in December , and more than 200 hub have be announce in total . the hon . member for North Dorset refer to 14 bank close , and I refer to 11 closing . when it come to the criterion for agree where those bank hub will be , will the Minister reassure I that those constituent who have lose the most bank will be those who get more banking hub when the opportunity come through ? the hon . Gentleman highlight how this issue affect community right across the UK , and in a moment I will turn to the criterion by which the location of banking hub be decide — hon . member have raise that important issue , and put on record their concern and feeling about it . banking hub offer counter service provide by post office staff , which allow personal and business customer of more than 30 bank and build society to withdraw and deposit cash , deposit cheque , pay bill and check their balance . they also , crucially , contain room where customer can see community banker from their bank to carry out wide banking service , such as register a bereavement or help with change a PIN . as the hon . member for North Dorset point out , bank hub offer more than just access to cash — that be an important point regard why such hub can bring so much to an area that have otherwise lose its local bank . community banking hub can clearly contribute a great deal to local area where exist bank have close , and decision over the opening of a hub be guide by the Financial Conduct Authority ' s regulation . in response to the question from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , it may be helpful for I to briefly outline how the FCA ' s process work . when a bank announce a closure , Link , the operator of the UK ' s large ATM network , conduct an impartial assessment of a community ' s access to cash need . Link consider criterion such as population size , the number of small business and level of vulnerability , as well as the distance to the near branch , and the cost and time take to get there via public transport . should Link recommend a banking hub , Cash Access UK , a not - for - profit entity fund by major UK bank , will implement it . crucially , a bank branch can not close until any recommend service be in place . additionally , individual , include member of Parliament , can directly request an access to cash review via the Link website . in collaboration with industry , the Government remain committed to advance the roll - out of these hub . it be worth point out that customer have alternative option for access everyday banking service . notably , 99 % of personal and 95 % of business banking customer can conduct their banking , include take out and deposit cash , at over 11 , 500 Post Office branch nationwide . the Post Office , as several hon . member have mention , have a duty to serve rural community , with the Department for Business and Trade require that 95 % of the total rural population across the UK be within three mile of a Post Office . therefore , where community might be too small for a banking hub , as may be the case for some of the rural community we be focus on this evening , individual and business can still access essential service at their local Post Office . have the people who have develop these regulation consider that three mile be a very long way for those who do not drive or have access to a car , or where there be no bus service ? that be certainly the case for large number of people in North Shropshire and , I be sure , the other rural community mention during the debate . People have set up their life to be able to access the service that be available , but if those service be take away and put somewhere else , they be unlikely to be able to get to that location , which be really problematic . will the Minister consider reassess the criterion , so that banking hub be place where bank be previously locate so that people can still access they ? the hon . member be correct that people need to be able to get to banking hub , and I will address that point later in my speech . more broadly , this Government be commit to improve the quality of life for people live and work in rural area , so that rural community and business can realise their full potential . a prosperous rural economy will be underpin by improvement in rural connectivity , as the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) point out , and access to a diverse range of service . in the autumn Budget of 2024 , the Government therefore announce funding of over £ 500 million next year to deliver digital infrastructure upgrade through Project Gigabit and the share rural network . that investment will drive roll - out of broadband and 4 g connectivity to support access to good internet in rural area across the UK . we have also confirm investment of over £ 1 billion to support and improve bus service and keep fare affordable . in recognition of the fact that each community have individual need , we have introduce the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) bill to put power over local bus service back in the hand of local leader . every region in England , include the rural community at the heart of this debate , will benefit . take together , these investment will help improve access to banking service , whether digital or in - person . more broadly , they will help to deliver economic growth more evenly across the country , help rural area to thrive . in closing , on behalf of the Economic Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , I again thank the hon . member for North Dorset for his continued work in highlight this important topic . I assure he and other hon . member that this Government be steadfast in their commitment to support rural community in their access to banking service , and I thank he again for raise his constituent ' concern in the House tonight . question put and agree to . House adjourn .