Oral Answers to Questions Scotland the Secretary of State be ask — Economic Growth what step he have take with Cabinet colleague to help support economic growth in Scotland . what step he have take with Cabinet colleague to help support economic growth in Scotland . the Scotland Office be support the White Ribbon Scotland campaign , which ask people to sign a pledge never to commit , condone or remain silent about violence against woman . I have sign it , as have the Under - Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Midlothian ( Kirsty McNeill ) , and I encourage Scottish Members from across the House to come to Dover House foyer and sign the pledge themselves . this Government have a mission to halve violence against woman and girl over the next decade . I be sure that the whole House support that . economic growth be our no . 1 mission in this Government . we announce a historic Budget for Scotland that choose investment over decline and an end to austerity . on top of a record settlement , the UK Government be invest nearly £ 1 . 4 billion into local growth project in Scotland , create the national wealth fund to support our new industrial strategy and drive the transition to clean energy via great British Energy , which be headquarter in Aberdeen . the first Labour Budget in 14 year deliver £ 4 . 9 billion for Scotland in Barnett consequential — the big settlement since devolution , put an end to austerity . on top of that , it confirm £ 20 million for Kilmarnock in my constituency — I thank the Secretary of State for ensure that that funding be deliver , despite the £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance leave by the Tories . do my right hon . friend agree that the last Tory Government make promise to Scotland that they have no intention of keeping ? I thank my hon . friend not only for that question but for the tenacity with which she have back Kilmarnock to get more funding for her local area in the Budget . it be an absolute disgrace that the previous Government make promise to community such as Kilmarnock about fund that they never have an intention of keeping . this Government step in and fund those project , choose investment over decline and will deliver growth and high living standard . the irony be that the Scottish National party vote against the large funding settlement in the history of devolution yesterday , but will spend it today . I recently visit Vector Photonics in my constituency , an optical and photonic centre of excellence and a successful spin - out from Glasgow University . what role do the Secretary of State believe there be for start - up and spin - out tech company in Scotland ' s economic growth ? I wish Vector Photonics well . support start - up and spin - out tech company and the world - lead scottish university that often incubate they be an important part of this Government ' s steadfast commitment to economic growth . it be privilege to see at first hand the importance of these spin - out during my recent visit to Malaysia and Singapore , when I discuss this with the scottish university present in those country and representative from the government and business . scottish university punch well above their weight internationally — something we should nurture and be very proud of . with your indulgence , Mr Speaker , I wish Peter MacMahon well as he step down as scottish political editor of ITV Border . Peter have provide outstanding coverage of not just scottish question in this Parliament but scottish politic more generally to my constituent and those across the south of Scotland . I be sure the Secretary of State will welcome , as I do , the fact that the life of Torness nuclear power station have be extend . that be good for energy security and for the scottish economy . but give that energy be a reserved matter , what more can he do to bring new nuclear development to Scotland ? I join the right hon . gentleman in his tribute to Peter MacMahon as he step down as the political editor of ITV in the Borders region . he and I share something closely : we both have good face for radio , but it be always nice to appear with Peter MacMahon on television . this Government be commit to clean power by 2030 , and of course , nuclear be part of that mix . the Secretary of State will recognise that the rise in national insurance contribution will have a clear impact on economic growth , whether in Scotland or anywhere else in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . representative from the food sector tell I that food price will increase by between 15 % and 20 % . that will impact the ordinary man and woman in the street . what impact do the Minister think the rise in national insurance contribution will have on economic growth ? economic growth be the no . 1 mission of this Government , as the hon . Gentleman know . when the Chancellor come to the Dispatch Box to deliver her Budget , she start on minus £ 22 billion — that black hole leave for we by the previous Government . we choose investment over decline and we choose to end austerity , so tough decision have to be make . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Secretary of State have say before and he have say again today that one of his top priority for the Scotland Office be growth . to grow , the Government need confidence from business . let we see how that be go : the verdict from scottish business to his government ' s Budget be in . offshore Energies UK say that " this be a difficult day for the sector . " the Scottish Hospitality Group have say : " today ' s announcement be a blow to business across the country " . the Scotch Whisky Association say that the increase in spirit duty be a " hammer blow " . the National Farmers Union Scotland have say that the decision will cause " huge difficulty " and act as a barrier to those want to get into farming . give those response , if not from retail , oil and gas , hospitality , food and drink or financial service , from which sector do he think this mythical growth will come ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place as the new shadow Secretary of State for Scotland and as a shadow Energy Minister — he have something in common with the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , the leader of the SNP in this House , who also aspire to have two job . unlike the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , I have actually run my own business , so I know that run a business need stability , credibility and confidence . the previous Government crash the economy , leave it in tatter , and leave business confidence at a record low . we be invest for the future , and business back that . I would take the right hon . Gentleman ' s response more seriously if we do not all see , and indeed have just hear , how damage his Government ' s action be for the scottish economy — national insurance increase and punitive tax rise on our most successful industry , put at risk the future of family farm and the rural economy . as Secretary of State , he would rather make performative gesture such as refuse to cross a picket line outside his Department than meet Scotland ' s business leader . as people , local authority and business await the Scottish Government ' s budget later today , do he agree that when it come to economic incompetence , Scotland really do have , in his government and in the proven ineptitude of the SNP , the very bad of all world ? I will be correct if I be wrong , but I think the hon . Gentleman back former Prime Minister Liz Truss , who , when she be Prime Minister , crash the economy and leave a £ 22 billion black hole — [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman shake his head and say that he do not , but he walk through the Lobby with she when she do those thing in her Budget . he do back former Prime Minister Liz Truss . we will take no lecture from the Opposition on how to run the economy or back business . of course , his party leave the high tax burden on work people in 70 year — another inheritance that this Government will have to try to resolve . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be sure that , like the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) and myself , the Secretary of State for Scotland be watch with bated breath for the late Scottish Budget . after 17 year of incompetence , people be look for change in Scotland , and the Labour party be promise it . will the Secretary of State follow the initiative of his scottish leader , Anas Sarwar , in say he will reinstate the winter fuel allowance and make representation to the Prime Minister to reconsider other policy , such as the national insurance change , which be create instability and uncertainty for the scottish economy ? I have a lot of respect for the hon . Lady , but this be another instance where the opposition party in this Chamber want all the benefit of the Budget , but they do not want to be able to pay for it . we have announce the large settlement for Scotland in devolution ' s history : £ 47 . 7 billion , which be £ 4 . 9 billion extra . the Chancellor deliver £ 4 . 9 billion extra in Barnett consequential alone from this Dispatch Box during the Budget — the SNP vote against it , but will spend it today . support for Veterans what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help support veteran in Scotland . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help support veteran in Scotland . this Government be fully commit to deliver for veteran , and I pay tribute to they and their family for the sacrifice they make during their service , as well as their value contribution to our society after they leave . the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , be lead work across Government , and with the Scottish Government , to ensure veteran and their family can access all the support they need . there be significant variability in the provision of veteran service across the nation . what step be the Secretary of State taking , alongside his Cabinet colleague , to ensure parity of service across the nation , and in particular in Scotland ? the Minister for Veterans and People be lead this work . the Prime Minister recently make an announcement on give veteran a social housing exemption , which , I can confirm , will bring England in line with Scotland , where veteran be already exempt from the local connection requirement to access social housing . we be create a level playing field across the nation to support veteran , as I mention in my first answer . since 1921 , the Royal British Legion Scotland have support veteran and their family through education , remembrance and direct support . this weekend , in my constituency in Keighley , the town council and community group be unveil a memorial to the fall of the first world war , with a time capsule place under the cenotaph to be open in 100 year . do the Minister agree that event such as these , which bring together the whole community , be of vital importance for our veteran — not only in Keighley , but in Scotland and across the wide United Kingdom ? I join the hon . gentleman in pay tribute to the volunteer who often run these event . I also draw the House ' s attention to the work of the War Memorials Trust , which be one of the many unsung organisation that do incredible work across this country to maintain war memorial so that we all may remember . across this House , we have many veteran and those who have serve ; I pay tribute to they all , and in particular to the 13 member on the Government Benches who be veteran or reservist . last week , I have the honour of attend the steel - cut ceremony of HMS Sheffield at BAE Govan in my constituency , add to a long list in the tradition of build high - quality defence industry vessel on the Clyde . what assurance can the Minister give I that defence procurement and skill will continue to be develop on the Clyde ? I can give my hon . friend the firmest of assurance that we will continue to prioritise shipbuilding on the Clyde , and indeed defence job across Scotland . Living Standards what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help improve living standard in Scotland . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help improve living standard in Scotland . our economic growth mission will raise living standard in Scotland . our new deal for work people will disproportionately benefit scot . new protection such as guarantee hour will help shift worker with up to £ 600 a year . we be also deliver an annual pay rise of £ 1 , 400 for hundred of thousand of full - time worker in Scotland , and we have commit to the triple lock , which mean an extra £ 470 for pensioner next year . last week , we pay the first instalment to 7 , 000 former scottish miner with their full pension . we will improve living standard through well public service and pay drive by economic growth . do the Secretary of State agree that community benefit fund from wind farm contribute to improve living standard for community ? will he join I in praise the work of the nine community council group in Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock as a model of the fair distribution of fund to support local apprenticeship and improve living standard across the Cumnock and Doon Valley area ? I congratulate not only the nine community council in my hon . friend ' s area on their initiative , but community council up and down the country that do so much work on our behalf to ensure that the community benefit fund , derive from local wind farm , make a tangible difference to local people . I congratulate she on stand up consistently for her community . our mission be to become a clean energy superpower by 2030 , and our community will be at the heart of that . community must benefit from host national infrastructure for clean power . that be why right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero be develop guidance on community benefit , which will be publish in due course . some 100 , 000 scot be on zero - hour contract , with no guarantee of secure hour . labour ' s Employment Rights Bill will address that . do the Secretary of State agree that 100 , 000 scot be in insecure work be a damn indictment of the state the Tories leave our economy in and show that we need a new direction in Holyrood ? Mr Speaker , you will not be surprised to hear that I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . [ interruption . ] absolutely shocked ! the Government inherit not just a fiscal crisis from the previous Government , but an industrial one too . we need more high - quality job in Scotland . between our industrial strategy , our plan to get Scotland work and the employment right legislation , we will help to deliver that . do not forget that the SNP Government say that zero - hour contract be a " positive destination " for work . our plan to make work pay will have a big positive benefit in Scotland than in the rest of the UK . that be the difference in have Scottish Labour mps on the Government Benches . I join the Secretary of State for Scotland in welcome the shadow Secretary of State for Scotland to his place . I congratulate he on his appointment . it do make it difficult sometimes to tell the two of they apart , that be say , especially on day like today . today , the Scottish Government will continue to protect the most vulnerable in society from the excess of Westminster cut . instead of Tory cut , it will be labour cut to winter fuel payment . do the Secretary of State agree with the cut to the winter fuel allowance ? Mr Speaker , I be sorry for such a short response to the hon . Gentleman , but there be 4 . 9 billion reason why that question be rubbish . I have to say I be not surprised . there be huge confusion in the Labour party about the winter fuel allowance . the Scottish Government be do something about it ; the UK Government be not . the Secretary of State do not even know the number of pensioner who would be affect by the winter fuel cut . labour be now distance itself from Labour . vote labour to stop Labour — be that the message his party be send out , or should voter just vote for the party that be actually do something about it ? I think what the hon . Gentleman be tend to forget be that the winter fuel payment in Scotland be devolve . it be the SNP Scottish Government who decide to mean - test it as well . if it be not for the £ 4 . 9 billion extra deliver by our Labour Chancellor at this Dispatch Box to end austerity , which the Scottish Government will spend today , they would not be able to make any decision whatsoever . Town Centre Regeneration what step he be take to support the regeneration of scottish town centre . I commend the hon . Lady for her work with the Chancellor to help to deliver a record Budget settlement for Scotland , the large Scottish Government Budget settlement in the history of devolution . it be now up to the Scottish Government to ensure that our town feel the benefit of it : there can be no more excuse from the Scottish National party . the Budget also confirm nearly £ 1 . 4 billion of funding for local growth project , and we be deliver growth deal in all part of Scotland , many of which be improve town centre and other community asset . Hamilton be a brilliant place in which to live and work , but the board - up shop in Quarry Street tell a story of their own . what can this Government do to support business across Hamilton and Clyde Valley , and across Scotland , which have suffer so badly under the chaos and neglect of two government , Conservative and SNP ? my hon . friend be entirely correct , and I commend she for stand up for her town . in England this Labour Government have already deliver low business rate for leisure , hospitality and retail business , which can help high street , and I be sure that every Scottish MP want to see that policy replicate in Scotland . as we be discuss brilliant town , it be timely to mention brilliant retail worker too , especially at this time of year . I be support the Christmas campaign organise by the Scottish Retail Consortium and the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers to encourage everyone to respect our shop worker at this particularly busy time of year . for far too long Ullapool , in my constituency , do not have a post office , which cause great inconvenience to local people . recently , however , Tesco step into the breach , and we now have a highly successful post office in a branch in the middle of Ullapool . may I recommend this approach to regenerate town centre to the Ministers ? we be delighted to receive representation of all kind on how to improve our town centre . we know that they have suffer neglect for far too long . I hope that all scottish mps will have be lobby for the kind of support for our leisure , hospitality and retail sector that this Government have already give south of the border . Transport Connectivity what step he be take to improve transport connectivity between Scotland and England . may I first pay tribute to the hon . Gentleman , my predecessor ? I know that he will continue to represent his constituent assiduously from the Back Benches . both the Secretary of State and I will be work closely with the Department for Transport and the Scottish Government to ensure that cross - border connectivity remain a top priority for this Government . extend the Borders railway line to Hawick and Newcastleton and then on to Carlisle will boost job , help the local economy and improve social mobility . the funding for the feasibility study be agree by the last Conservative Government with the SNP Administration in Edinburgh , but the new Labour Government seem to have push this into the railway siding . will the Minister ensure that the funding for the feasibility study be release as soon as possible ? the UK Government be fully commit to the Borderlands growth deal . it will deliver economic growth for the south of Scotland and beyond , which be one of our key mission . the Scotland Office continue to work with the Department for Transport , the Scottish Government and Borderlands partner on the next stage of business case development for the Tweedbank - Carlisle corridor , and on feasibility option for the extension of the Borders railway line . unfortunately , it be ultimately up to Transport Scotland and the Scottish Government to follow through on the delivery of this important project . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I echo the Minister ' s word about her predecessor — and indeed my own predecessor as shadow Secretary of State — and the work that he have do ? one of the last Government ' s decision of which I be most proud be the halving of air passenger duty , which lead to cheap flight and increase route across the UK . however , with airline already cut back on route as a result of this Government ' s decision to hike APD , people who do not live within a few hour of London on the train , such as those in Aberdeen , face high fare and few option for travel . how can the Government credibly claim to support well transport connectivity across the United Kingdom when those live outside the central belt — I know that Labour member need to be remind that it exist — be be punish ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , we face a climate emergency and , indeed , an economic emergency of his Government ' s own making . we be face in our first few month in government with a £ 22 billion black hole , with Treasury reserve spend three time over . we have take tough choice to try to deal with the economic inheritance that we receive . Autumn Budget : discussion with Scottish Government what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on the autumn Budget 2024 . what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on the autumn Budget 2024 . we have reset the relationship with the Scottish Government , and I have meet the Deputy First Minister numerous time to discuss the autumn Budget and other issue . between the moment when my right hon . friend the Chancellor stand up and the moment when she sit down , Scotland be well off to the tune of £ 4 . 9 billion in Barnett consequential alone — again , money that the SNP vote against , but will spend today . I encourage the Scottish Government to use that money to strengthen frontline service , bring down NHS waiting time and lift attainment in our school . there can be no more excuse . we end austerity , and it be time that they follow . I thank my right hon . friend for his answer . a thrive retail , hospitality and leisure sector be critical to brand Scotland . follow the welcome decision in the Budget to ensure a 40 % rate relief for RHL business in England , what guarantee , if any , have my right hon . Friend have from the Scottish Government that the extra Barnett consequential link to non - domestic rate will be pass on in today ' s Scottish Budget ? do he agree that any failure to do so would be deeply damaging to the sector ? I thank my hon . friend for his question ; he be absolutely correct . the UK Budget choose investment over decline , include investment directly in my hon . friend ' s constituency as part of the £ 200 million town fund , as well as the big Budget settlement in the history of devolution . he be also right to say that our hospitality business need the rate relief more than ever . the Scottish Government should use their budget to deliver growth and investment to help our high street , and pass on the relief should be the bare minimum . we have deliver the big Budget settlement for the Scottish Government in the history of devolution , with , as the House have hear today , more than £ 4 . 9 billion of extra funding that can go towards public service . do the Secretary of State agree that there be no more excuse for the SNP , and that scot expect and deserve delivery and improvement of our public service ? of course , I could not agree more . it be not just the £ 4 . 9 billion , but all the other investment that the UK Government make outside the Barnett consequential . the Labour Government have deliver billion of pound more for school and hospital in Scotland . it be more money than ever before , but the SNP MPs vote against it . they vote to deny Holyrood its big ever Budget settlement by vote against the Finance Bill last week , but of course they will happily spend it in their Budget today . they also vote against Great British Energy , which will be base in the SNP leader ' s own constituency . give what we have read about the SNP ' s selection process , I guess the SNP mp be keener to send themselves to Holyrood than billion of pound of extra funding . I be sure that pensioner in the Secretary of State ' s constituency be as relieve as those in Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber that the Scottish Government ' s Budget will introduce a pension - age winter heating payment for all scottish pensioner . the SNP Government be do the right thing by scottish pensioner . will he join I in urge the Labour Government here in Westminster to do the right thing by pensioner in England and Wales and give they back their winter fuel allowance as well ? what the hon . Gentleman have just prove be that the winter fuel payment in Scotland be actually devolve . one of the consequence of the Budget be to remove £ 5 million of regeneration funding for Perth city centre . we get practically nothing from the levelling - up fund , save for that paltry £ 5 million , which the Secretary of State be take away . just what be it that the UK Government have against the city of Perth ? no project have be cancel . the Perth deal be under consideration by the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and the Treasury . it have not be cancel ; it have merely be pause . the hon . Gentleman should speak to his colleague in the Scottish Government , who have £ 4 . 9 billion extra in Barnett consequential to spend today . perhaps he could even have a chat with some of his colleague sit next to he , who seem happy in Holyrood than they be here . Employer National Insurance : Hospices what discussion he have have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the potential impact of propose change to employer national insurance contribution on hospice in Scotland . I know there be consensus right across this House on the enormous value of the hospice sector and the extraordinary work that it do — work that , sadly , have be undervalue for far too long . support for additional employer national insurance contribution will be allocate to Departments , with the Barnett formula apply in the usual way for the devolved government . the rise do not begin until April , and we will set out further detail on the allocation of funding in due course . there be 45 hospice in Scotland — I can not be certain of that figure , because so many of they be in dire financial circumstance . I think of Roxburghe House in Aberdeen , which provide service to my constituent and those of other mp in this Chamber . another organisation that provide vital hospice care be the Marie Curie charity , which provide service in Edinburgh and Glasgow . it also provide hospice - at - home care . the charity be face a bill close to £ 3 million as a result of decision make by this Government . what do the Minister have to say about the help that can be provide to Marie Curie and other organisation ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , the pressure on hospice funding long predate the Budget and relate to the decline in real - term fund from the Scottish Government . I note that nearly 5 , 000 member of the public have write to the Scottish Government recently to support call from the scottish hospice leadership for fair funding . those call might be answer this afternoon when the SNP Government will have an extra £ 5 billion to spend . this be secure by Scottish Labour MPs but vote against by SNP MPs . it will be spend this afternoon by SNP Ministers . make it make sense ! Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 4 December . order . what be those two member play at ? that be absolutely disgraceful . we have start pmq . either come in early or at least wait . please start read the room . it be a pleasure to welcome his highness the Amir of the state of Qatar to the UK . I look forward to discussion this afternoon on how we be strengthen our relationship and boost trade and investment , include an announcement today of a £ 1 billion investment in our new clean energy partnership . Sunday mark World Aids Day , and we stand with all those we have lose and those live with HIV today . we will seek to end new case of HIV in England by 2030 . I also note that we be join in the Gallery today by Mandy Damari , the mother of Emily , a british citizen still be hold hostage in Gaza . I have meet Mandy a number of time , and in my view what she be go through be nothing short of torture . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House I shall have further such meeting later today . I would like to concur with the comment the Prime Minister have just make . North Devon district hospital be the most remote hospital in mainland England . its intensive care unit have only six bed , it be almost 50 year old , and it serve a population of 165 , 000 people . can the Prime Minister assure my constituent that their hospital will receive the urgent funding that be need under the new hospital programme , so that they will not face a more than two - hour drive to the near trauma unit ? the new hospital programme that we inherit be emblematic of the failure of the previous Government : make promise with no plan to deliver on they . we be commit to delivery , include the North Devon hospital . we be review the programme to place it on a sustainable footing , and the Health Secretary will set out further detail of the new delivery soon . in the meantime , we continue to support trust to develop their scheme . I welcome the swift and decisive action this Government be take to secure our border after the Conservatives lose control . in particular , I welcome the world - first deal strike with Iraq last week to tackle smuggling gang . do the Prime Minister agree that international co - operation , shared intelligence and joint law enforcement be the good way to end the vile smuggling trade ? I thank my hon . friend . she be a superb champion for her constituent , and she be absolutely right . the previous Government leave a broken asylum system . we have put a plan in place : the Border Security Command , back by £ 150 million ; 100 more National Crime Agency officer ; and we be introduce counter - terror - style power . my hon . friend be right to say that our new international co - ordination include the landmark Iraq agreement . the hard graft be already begin to pay off , because 9 , 400 people who have no right to be here have be return . that be a 30 % increase on the number of last year . the Conservatives promise to get the flight off the ground . we have get they off the ground . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I pay tribute to Mandy Damari and her family for the strength they have show . we on this side of the House , and I be sure the whole House , continue to seek the speedy release of Emily Damari and the other hostage . the Prime Minister talk about immigration , so it be probably a good time to remind he that he be the one write letter ask we not to deport foreign criminal . he and his party vote against every single measure we put in place to try to limit immigration . the question today be what have be on the lip of all Labour mps , include , I believe , the Health Secretary yesterday . the Prime Minister knowingly appoint a convict fraudster to be his Transport Secretary . what be he think ? the previous Transport Secretary be right to resign when further information come forward . what a marked contrast to the behaviour of the last 14 year . the Leader of the Opposition talk about immigration . there be record level of immigration under the previous Government , with net migration of nearly 1 million , and she be the cheerleader . she be the one urge the removal of the cap on work visa . she thank the previous Home Secretary for the work that be do . she champion it , she advocate it — record level of immigration . he be obfuscate , but I be go to keep he on the topic . he owe the House an explanation . he say that the former Transport Secretary be ask to resign only after further information come to light . what be that further information ? I be not go to disclose private conversation . further information come to light , and the Transport Secretary resign . what a marked contrast . while the right hon . Lady be obsess with Westminster issue , we be get on with fix the mess and fix the foundation , with that £ 22 billion black hole , our prison burst and , as we find out last week , net migration of nearly 1 million because of the Tory open border policy . I be not ask about migration ; I be ask about the former Transport Secretary . he never answer any question , and it look like he do not ask his Transport Secretary any question either . the truth be that he appoint a person convict of fraud to the Cabinet , and the first thing she do be bung hundred of million of pound in pay rise to her trade union friend . be this not a fraud on the british people ? no . she say she be not talk about immigration , and I be not surprised . I advise she not to talk about the economy or immigration for another five year . he can try to change the topic as much as he like , but the public be watch . he owe they an explanation . the country need conviction politician , not politician with conviction . now , on to an even big fraud : the Budget . last week , the Prime Minister fail to repeat the Chancellor ' s pledge of no more borrowing and no more taxis . it be obvious that they be come back for more . in his manifesto , he commit to make Britain the fast - grow economy in the G7 . do he stand by his own pledge ? I gently remind the right hon . Lady that two of her predecessor have conviction for break the covid rule . I also invite she to look at this morning ' s OECD report , which have upgrade growth for next year and the year after , put we on target to be the fast - grow major economy in Europe in the next two year . she should welcome that . I have see the OECD report , and what it say be that they will be come back for more taxis . the whole House will have hear he fail to repeat his own pledge . he can not even repeat the pledge he make just a few week ago . we be here to stop he damage the economy , and that be why — [ interruption . ] order . I want to hear the question . they be laugh the same way they all laugh during the Budget , when they talk about raise national insurance . they have no idea what people out there be deal with . that be why , yesterday , we vote against his damaging job tax . even former supporter such as the chef Tom Kerridge , who endorse Labour at the election , say that the Budget be " catastrophic . " he build a real business employ young people , unlike this Cabinet of trade union stooge , cv embellisher and an actual fraudster . none of they have ever run a business . why will the Prime Minister not listen to business who be say his Budget be catastrophic ? I think the scripted joke be over , but we have another one and then lecture about the economy from the conservative party that break the economy , send mortgage through the roof and leave a £ 22 billion black hole . the right hon . Lady talk about national insurance . she complain about the rise in national insurance week after week , but then two week ago she say that she would not reverse it . she sign trade deal that have farmer protest in Whitehall , but now she pretend that she be their champion . she campaign to remove the cap on migrant worker visa , but now she pretend she be furious about the open border policy of the last government . the fact be that the Prime Minister have discard his own Labour leadership promise : he have drop the five mission he say would define his government ; he have ditch his pledge to make Britain the fast - grow economy in the G7 — we leave office with the UK as the fast - grow economy in the G7 — and business be say he have damage the economy with his Budget . tomorrow he be go to have an emergency reset , just five month into his premiership , but why should anyone believe a word he say ? the only relaunch on the Conservative Benches be the leadership bid of the right hon . Lady ' s rival . she obviously have not read the OECD report publish this morning : the fast growth in the next two year of any major economy in Europe — we be proud of that . opposition Members should never be allow to forget the damage they do to our country . they use Britain like some sort of mad scientist ' s experiment : open border , unfunded tax cut , a neglect health service . and now all the madness be still come out , but they say they should be back in office . they have not listen , they have not learn , and they certainly have not change . there be only one party that be drive this country forward , and that be this Labour Government . today it be Question 3 but , who know , next week I could be no . 1 in the chart , as the first MP this year to bring out a Christmas single . will the Prime Minister join I in thank my musical collaborator , the hugely talented Mal Pope , and everyone involve with this year ' s " everyone deserve " hamper campaign , which will deliver festive food to 1 , 500 home across five constituency in south Wales ? like our song say , " there ' s a reason for the season and everyone deserve a Christmas . " I thank my hon . friend for her Christmas single ; there be obviously go to be some rivalry in the race for No . 1 by Christmas — I will not be join that particular race . I thank she and Mal Pope for their campaigning . I remember join she a few summer ago in the work involve the hamper , which be much need by her constituent . I know how much it mean to they . Christmas be a time to think of other , and I pay tribute to she and all those support those in need . this government will always support the most vulnerable in our society . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I , for one , will be download the song by the hon . member for Neath and Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) , and I join the Prime Minister in his delight about it . I also join he in support for Mandy Damari , and our joint hope that we will see Emily and other hostage release as soon as possible . the Prime Minister have rightly speak about the need to restore and rebuild the public ' s trust in british politic . we believe a crucial part of that be reform our electoral system to make it fair and more proportional , and so do a majority of the british public . this House vote yesterday in favour of a Bill for electoral reform put forward by my hon . friend the Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) . will the Prime Minister make Government time available so we can consider that Bill about electoral reform and restore the public ' s trust in our politic ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for reference Emily . it be important that we all remember she and the awful torture that her mother be go through , as be the case for all the other hostage . it be hard to imagine what it must be like for anybody with friend or family who be still be hold hostage after all this time . proportional representation be not our policy and we will not be make time for it . I will just gently say to the right hon . Gentleman that he do not do too badly under the system as it be . I be disappoint in that reply and hope that the Prime Minister will reflect on Labour ' s policy . move on to another press subject , more than 3 million people have be stick on NHS waiting list for more than 18 week . that be probably the bad , most appalling legacy of the last Conservative Government and it need to be fix . do the Prime Minister accept that we will only get waiting list down , and keep they down , if it be easy for everyone to see a gp when they need it ? when he publish his milestone tomorrow , will he include a guarantee with a timetable so that people will be able to see a gp within at least seven day , or 24 hour if it be urgent ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to draw attention to the record of the last government on the NHS : record waiting list and record low confidence in the NHS . in addition to the economy and immigration , they have well not be talk about that for the last five year either . we will be drive that down . we have already begin that work to make sure that we get those waiting list down , and yes , of course , that include make sure there be well access to GPs and other measure that need to be take . that be a central drive mission of this Government . give that a significant number of member of this place be , regardless of class , woman of a certain age , do the Prime Minister agree that when a woman of a certain age — or indeed any woman , of any age and from any background — say that they have experience sexual harassment or inappropriate behaviour , they should be listen to and support and the perpetrator deal with ? I certainly agree with that , and I think everybody across the House would . my hon . friend be right , because one of the great barrier that woman face when come forward to report unacceptable behaviour in the workplace be have confidence that they will be take seriously . that require all of we to put in place mechanism and arrangement to make that possible . everybody should be treat with dignity and respect , and I be proud of the fact that our Employment Rights Bill will strengthen protection from sexual harassment at work . Friday the 13th be a date associate with bad thing happen . next Friday , the European Union ' s general product safety regulation will apply in Northern Ireland , create more cost and bureaucracy for English , Scottish and Welsh company that want to do business in Northern Ireland and Northern Ireland consumer buy from they . many business have already stop supply Northern Ireland . haulage company be unsure of what be require of they . online sale platform be divide on the advice they give . a previous Prime Minister promise Northern Ireland business that if they be ask to complete additional paperwork , they should phone he and he would " direct they to throw that form in the bin . " what direct , tangible advice can the Prime Minister give to those business that want to continue supply Northern Ireland ? that be a serious issue and the Government be work closely with business to ensure that they be ready for the change that the hon . Gentleman have identify . we publish more guidance yesterday , as he know , to support they far . we will be keep a close eye on the issue to help business trade freely across the whole of the United Kingdom . in Stoke - on - Trent and Kidsgrove we be proud of our beautiful historic building . however , many of they lie dormant and blight our proud town . will the Prime Minister outline what step the Government be take to bring historic building back into use , and will he make time to visit my constituency to see for himself our untapped potential ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue and I will certainly consider his kind invitation . we will invest in heritage building , restore pride and ensure that they serve the need of local community . the National Lottery Heritage Fund have award Stoke - on - trent £ 250 , 000 to help preserve the city ' s heritage . Historic England be also fund emergency repair at the iconic Wedgewood Institute and support re - form Heritage — whose office , I think , be base in my hon . friend ' s constituency — to employ staff dedicate to deliver heritage project . today be the Scottish Budget , which contain provision to reinstate the winter fuel payment for all scottish pensioner — something that the Prime Minister famously take away from nearly all UK pensioner , support by Scottish Labour Members of Parliament . but apparently Scottish Labour be now in favour of the winter fuel payment , so what be his advice to Labour msp ? be it to vote for the Budget , to ensure that scottish pensioner get that single fuel payment , or be to stick with his view and vote that Budget down ? my advice to my team be to ensure that the SNP be absolutely clear that we have give the big settlement to Scotland this year in our Budget . the Scottish Government now have the power and the resource . they have no more excuse for their failure to deliver . a year ago today , this House defeat the then Government over the contaminated blood scandal compensation scheme . it be welcome that the present Government have set aside £ 11 . 8 billion for that compensation scheme , but as victim die every week , there be concern about the pace of payment , and the fact that rule be be change behind close door in Whitehall without explanation , contradict some of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation . do my right hon . friend agree that next week ' s meeting schedule with the campaign group represent the victim must represent the start of those infect and affect be involve in a process that they fight so hard for , and for so long , and that too many die and fail to see ? we be committed to act on the finding of the infected blood inquiry , and ensure swift resolution and compensate in full . that be why we announce £ 11 . 8 billion to compensate those who wait far too long for justice . I will happily make sure that my hon . friend get a meeting with the Paymaster General to discuss the issue that he have raise . every day , pensioner in my Leicester South constituency be email I with one word : " frightened . " Susan , who have pulmonary fibrosis , write : " during winter I rarely go out as it ' s too cold for my lung . I need to keep warm and the heating on . the winter fuel payment be really helpful . I want mp to know not all pensioner be millionaire ( or receive gift from millionaire ) , nor do we all get the high rate of pension " . Susan be frightened that she will not be able to keep her house warm this winter , and she be not alone . do the Prime Minister realise how frightening it be for the 8 , 100 pensioner in my constituency who have lose their winter fuel payment ? as the winter month start to bite , will he come to Leicester to explain to Susan why he think this policy be not frightening ? as the hon . member know , the no . 1 job of this Government be to get our finance back in order after the mess that the last Government make , include leave a £ 22 billion black hole . we have to make tough choice . the opposition say that they want the benefit , but can not say how they be go to pay for they . we want to make sure that the most vulnerable pensioner get the pension credit that they be entitle to . we be drive that up , and because we be stabilise the economy we can commit to the triple lock . that mean a £ 460 uplift in the pension next year , so every pensioner will be well off under a Labour Government . the Middlewich eastern bypass will support the delivery of nearly 2 , 000 new home , 6 , 500 job and 1 . 5 million square foot of employment land . the previous Government , have first promise to fund it , drag their foot , put job and investment at risk . we be approach the season of good will , so can the Prime Minister give my constituent an early Christmas present and offer some certainty about this vital infrastructure project ? we be commit to support driver across the country , include by freeze fuel duty and invest £ 1 . 6 billion to maintain our road . that be £ 500 million more than in the previous year . I know that my hon . friend ' s constituent have wait year for certainty on this scheme . the project be currently go through a Government assessment process , and I will make sure that he get a meeting with the road Minister to discuss it . the major gp practice group in my constituency have write to I , detail their precarious finance . they be consider their option as they plan for the year ahead , include redundancy , hand back their contract or bankruptcy , and they have stop recruit GPs , result in few patient appointment . the Health Secretary have promise an increase funding allocation but have yet to say when we will know how much it will be . will the Prime Minister release the funding information and meet I and the GPs to hear at first hand about the pressure they be face ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise this . the Darzi report , which we commission , make it clear that the NHS be break by the previous Government , and that be why we provide £ 22 billion of additional funding in the Budget this year to start the work of fix our NHS . we do obviously value the vital work of GPs and , as he know , we consult every year with the sector about the service they provide and the money they be entitle to in return , and we will set that out in the usual way . Hollie Gazzard be murder by her boyfriend outside her workplace in Gloucester 10 year ago . since then , her family have establish the Hollie Gazzard Trust , which educate young people on domestic abuse and stalking , and keep woman safe with its Hollie Guard app . will the Prime Minister join I in pay tribute to Hollie ' s family and the work of the Hollie Gazzard Trust , and will he update the House on the step the Government be take to tackle violence against woman and girl ? a decade on , I be sure the thought of the whole House remain with Hollie ' s family and friend . I join my hon . friend in commend the vital work of the Hollie Gazzard Trust . in relation to the step we be take , we have a mission to halve the level of violence against woman and girl within a decade . that be really tough to do — nobody have ever commit to that before . I invite everybody across the House in join we in that . that will include , among the step we be take , place domestic abuse expert in 999 control room , to ensure that abuse be pick up early ; launch a pilot of new domestic abuse protection order ; develop a national framework to track and target high - harm offender ; and strengthen stalk prevention order . we will take other measure to make good on that commitment . a WASPI — Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign — woman die every 13 minute . that be two woman since the Prime Minister take to the Dispatch Box today , and it be 111 woman every day , and nearly 17 , 000 since he take office . how many more WASPI woman have to die before the Government take action to give they the financial redress and justice that they be due ? we be move at pace on all relevant issue . we pass the Budget to provide the baseline for what we need , and we will continue to do so . local council in my constituency be face significant financial pressure on special educational need and disability provision . in Wokingham borough , for example , the SEND incidence be twice the national average , yet historically the level of funding have not meet the level of need , and that have leave family and child wait too long for help . the previous Government ' s safety valve programme be only a stick plaster , so I welcome this Government ' s announcement today of additional SEND funding in mainstream school . what more can the Government do to make SEND funding sustainable ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this — I think this be the fifth or sixth time that SEND have be raise at Prime Minister ' s question . we inherit a system neglect to the point of crisis by the last government , and so we will deliver the change that be desperately need . that mean increase funding to the core school budget by £ 2 . 3 billion , which include almost £ 1 billion more on high need budget . today we be announce investment of £ 740 million to create SEN unit in mainstream school which deliver specialist support , and I be very pleased to take that forward . member across this House be deeply concerned that the Post Office be consider close more than 100 branch across our community . More than 3 , 000 people have sign a petition oppose the closure of Bexhill post office . do the Prime Minister agree that the Government must ensure that we protect vital post office service for all our constituent ? I recognise the campaigning of many , include the hon . Gentleman , on local service that their constituent rely on . the Post Office be require to maintain a network of 11 , 500 branch and to ensure that 99 % of the UK population live within 3 mile of a post office . decision about individual branch be for the Post Office to take , follow consultation with local community , but I be happy to ensure that he get a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss his particular case . in my constituency it be full steam ahead to 2025 , when our town celebrate the 200 - year anniversary of the railway with a nine - month festival . we be proud of our industrial contribution , but many in my area have concern about the future of our rail industry . what assurance can the PM offer that he will get our railway back on track ? we be deliver on our commitment to bring railway back under public ownership , put passenger first . today , we have announce that South Western Railway service will be the first to transfer into public ownership next year , so that we can turn the page on decade of delay , fragmentation and failure . Veteran Anne Puckridge be in the Gallery , and I urge the Prime Minister to meet she to talk about her frozen pension . yesterday , the report that Scottish Labour mp be very " upset " . apparently , that upset be cause by their scottish leader ' s diktat that they now have to support the very winter fuel payment that they vote against in this place . as the Prime Minister comfort his upset mps , will he remind they that the only people with the right to be upset be the 900 , 000 scottish pensioner who be leave in the cold by labour ' s cut ? I work very closely with Scottish Labour in a harmonious way . we run a fantastic campaign early this year , which be why the hon . Lady be sit on the Benches at the back , not the Benches at the front . I echo the word of member across the House about Mandy Damari , who I also meet this week , and who be from Beckenham . yesterday mark International Day of Persons with Disabilities , and I be proud to be one of the disabled mps in this House . as a sixth - former , I become one of the young people in Britain to have a hip replacement , and I rely on a blue badge . datum release yesterday show that blue badge theft have more than quadruple in the past 10 year . will the Prime Minister back my campaign to tackle blue badge theft and ensure that million of disabled people can work , socialise and live an independent life ? I thank my hon . friend for be a powerful voice for some of the most vulnerable in our society . theft of a blue badge be appal , deprive people of their independence and ability to travel with confidence . it have a real human impact every single time . that be why we be work closely with local authority to help they tackle fraud and misuse , and I will make sure that my hon . friend have a meeting with the relevant Minister to examine what more can be do . follow on from the question ask by the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) , in the Gallery today be Anne Puckridge , a world war two veteran and an intense campaigner . she have fly over 5 , 000 mile from Canada to meet the Prime Minister to discuss frozen pension , a policy that be deny she and half a million brit who live abroad an increase in their pension . I be sure Anne will not mind I say that she will be 100 year old in a couple of day ' time . will the Prime Minister reconsider his decision , and give Anne the good birthday present ever and meet she to discuss this issue ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise this issue . I think he will well know and understand that our position be a continuation of the position under the last Government . do the Prime Minister share my concern at a report by Audit Scotland , which have find that the Scottish Government have no clear plan for the NHS in Scotland ? as a Scottish Labour MP , I be delighted that this Government be provide £ 4 . 9 billion extra for public service in Scotland . be it not time for SNP Ministers to get a grip and do well for patient in my constituency , who face some of the long waiting time for surgery in Scotland ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue , because waiting list in Scotland be appal . that be why we make the argument that , now that the Scottish Government have the money and the resource , there be no more excuse for poor delivery . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I seek your advice on yesterday ' s debate about a job tax on work people who be not work people — it depend on the definition of " work people . " the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury claim that the Office for Budget Responsibility state there be a cover - up by the previous Government . in column 203 of Hansard , we see the word use by the Minister : he say that the OBR use the word " cover - up " not once but twice . I have since check with the OBR . it have not say this ; I believe it be a creative use of word to suit a political narrative . could you advise I on how I could bring the Minister to the House to correct the record ? if no one on the Government Front Bench want to , I will deal with this . first , I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of the point of order . I understand that he have notify the Exchequer Secretary that he intend to refer to this matter in the Chamber , and I thank he for do that . the Chair be not responsible for what minister say in the Chamber ; that have historically be the case . however , he certainly have put the record straight in his view , and I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have note his remark , and will reflect on they . let I put it that way . public Body Ethnicity Data ( Inclusion of jewish and Sikh Categories ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to provide that , where a public body collect datum about ethnicity for the purpose of deliver public service , it must include specific " Sikh " and " jewish " category as option for a person ' s ethnic group ; and for connected purpose . Jews and Sikhs be in the unique position of be consider both ethnic and religious group under the Equality Act 2010 . Sikhs and Jews have be legally recognise as ethnic group for over 40 year , since the Mandla v . Dowell Lee case in 1983 . the Bill would address a fundamental absurdity in the fight against discrimination and inequality , which be that we have not collect ethnicity datum on Sikhs and Jews since law on racial discrimination be first introduce nearly 60 year ago . the Women and Equalities Committee be tell in February 2018 that the Government ' s race disparity audit have identify around 340 dataset across Government , but find no datum on Sikhs . the only datum collect on Sikhs and Jews in more recent year be religious datum . however , the quality of datum collect by public body on religion , as oppose to ethnicity , be poor , patchy and incomplete . religion datum be never use by public body to make decision for the purpose of deliver public service . this make both Jews and Sikhs invisible to policymaker , ignore the inequality and discrimination that both group face . that be why a specific jewish and Sikh ethnic category be need , and that be what this Bill will create . this be a campaign to end the discrimination that both community face . I campaign for a Sikh and jewish ethnicity tick box to be include in the 2021 census , because we know that for over 30 year , public body have be instruct to use the census ' s ethnic group question to design and deliver service in compliance with equality legislation . give that we be talk about protect characteristic , we would expect public body to be instruct to routinely collect information on Sikhs and Jews , but they be not . the then Minister with responsibility for equality , the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , write this to I last year : " public body and decision - maker who think that their decision may affect discrimination , harassment , or victimisation of Sikhs … should ensure that their compliance with the duty include consideration of Sikh ethnicity . " however , they do not , because people incorrectly argue , and assume , that datum collect on religion be a suitable substitute . those people do not understand exist practice . religion datum be rarely collect to a good standard . it exclude non - practise Sikhs and Jews , and it be not use by public body to monitor and reduce inequality or provide public service . the latter be key to this argument , because Sikhs and Jews be miss from whole swathe of public datum — on education , housing , crime , health , criminal justice , the public sector workforce and the ethnicity pay gap . the Bill would allow public body to start systematically collect datum on Sikhs and Jews to address the discrimination and inequality that they face , which be especially relevant as the Government have make a commitment to require ethnicity pay gap reporting . in present this Bill , I have the support of a wide range of community organisation , include the Sikh Council , 112 UK gurdwara and organisation , the Board of Deputies of British Jews , the Antisemitism Policy Trust and the Community Security Trust . I would like to provide the House with a few example of why this Bill be so important . the pandemic shine a harsh light on the inequality between different ethnic group . many expert in public health now accept that we be too slow to recognise that some ethnic group be die at a far high rate than other . the Office for National Statistics belatedly start analyse covid - relate death datum by religious group where datum be available , a short - term exercise that have since be discontinue . it find that Sikhs die disproportionately from covid even after adjust for region , population density , area deprivation , household composition , socioeconomic status and a range of other economic indicator . not only that , but it show that Sikhs be affect at a very different rate from other predominantly south asian group , mean that analysis use the exist ethnic minority category would fail to capture any of these inequality . the Board of Deputies of British Jews have also recognise these argument . british Jews die at almost twice the rate of the rest of the population , as there be a high prevalence of certain genetic condition among jewish people — for example , of breast cancer in ashkenazi jewish woman . collect well datum will help public service to profile and respond to the community well . to address health inequality , we need to learn from the pandemic , and we need to collect accurate datum to ensure well outcome for both these community , base on evidence . to give just one example that highlight the absurdity of this system , NHS blood and Transplant do not collect datum on Sikh organ donor or Sikhs require an organ transplant , despite the fact that for more than a decade , there have be a policy of encourage more Sikhs to become donor . NHS blood and Transplant do not gather the single most important datum point that would allow we to improve sign - up rate among this under - represent group . it be shocking . as Amanda Bowman , vice - president of the Board of Deputies of British Jews , write last year : " imagine you ' re sit in a hospital waiting room and have be ask to fill out a form which , among other question , ask for your ethnicity … so which box do I tick ? " as David Baddiel , the author of " Jews Don ' t Count " , have say : " it be othere and alienate " that Jews do not have a distinct ethnic box to reflect their race . since 7 October , the british jewish community have face an appalling rise in antisemitic hate attack . while the Home Office collect datum on religiously motivate antisemitic hate crime , it do not do so on racially aggravate antisemitism . that be despite instance of racial hate crime outnumbering instance of religiously aggravate hate crime by 10 to one . there be a serious risk that jewish hate crime be be undercounte by the Home Office because it do not have its own jewish ethnic category . in the first half of this year , the Community Security Trust find that the majority of antisemitic incident that it record consist of " anti - jewish discourse " link the victim " to Israel , Palestine , the Hamas terror attack or the subsequent war . " accord to Crown Prosecution Service prosecution guidance , hate target someone ' s real or perceive nationality or national origin , such as a link to Israel , would indicate a racially , not religiously , aggravate offence . the same go for Sikhs , as be document in the all - party group on british Sikhs report on anti - sikh hate . sikh be the most visible minority in Britain , yet we do not collect datum on racist anti - sikh hate . the last government ' s hate crime action plan effectively ignore Sikh hate , or the need to define anti - sikh hate . Herein lie the fundamental problem with focus on datum relate to religion , rather than ethnicity , when it come to Sikhs and Jews . religion be not a mandatory field in crime reporting standard that the Home Office set for police force , apart from in religiously aggravate hate crime case . however , police force be require to record ethnicity , or use ethnic appearance code that relate to census category that do not include Sikhs and Jews , despite their recognition in the Equality Act 2010 . his Majesty ' s inspectorate of constabulary and fire and rescue service have produce at least 30 report since 2017 criticise police force for the poor recording of datum on the ethnicity of victim of crime . let I give a final example . in October , the chief executive of the UK jewish film festival warn of the " erasure of british - jewish culture from national cultural life " by art body , which be of course largely publicly fund . Benjamin Till , a composer who have be nominate for a British Academy of Film and Television Arts award , tell the jewish Chronicle that Arts Council England " doesn ' t allow jewish people to identify as anything other than a religion " . he insist that Arts Council England " must accept that Jewishness be a cultural , and … an ethnic identity . " as the all - party group on british Sikhs and the Board of Deputies of british Jews have warn , even on its own merit , use religious question to capture datum on our community will increasingly become irrelevant . the percentage of Sikhs and Jews who identify with their ethnic group but do not practise their religion be grow . as Britain become increasingly secular , we be fail to recognise the other way in which british Sikhs and Jews face discrimination . ethnicity datum can capture that in way that religion datum do not . as the Board of Deputies of British Jews have say : " we be concerned that until this situation be rectify , many jewish citizen will not feel fully count . " a former cabinet member for public health and protection on Sandwell council say that Sikhs and Jews be forget when it come to the design of service because there be no ethnicity datum on Jews and Sikhs to inform those decision . in the rare case where we do have some datum , it expose glare inequality . in 2018 , 5 . 3 % of death of homeless people in London be of Sikhs , who be 1 . 3 % of London ' s general population ; and 27 % of Sikhs in the UK report that someone in their family have an alcohol addiction . good quality datum save life . in the past few year , the Office for National Statistics have come to acknowledge the need to ensure that the ethnicity standard reflect the diversity of the UK population . that surely mean it be time to address the injustice face Sikh and jewish people . whatever the future of ethnicity datum collection , we must routinely be include in our own right . if we consider our legal status as ethnic group , we should be include . if we consider the size of our population , we should be include . if we consider our contribution to Great Britain and society , we should be include . if we consider the specific form of discrimination and the inequality we face , we should be include . our community be ask for fairness and justice and to be count as ethnic group , give that we have be recognise as such in law for more than 40 year . as David Baddiel have argue , " identify antisemitism as religious intolerance , rather than racism , downgrade its importance , which be what lead to Jews not count . " the same go for Sikhs , and it be not just a rhetorical point ; it be literally the case that regard Sikhs and Jews as a religious category mean we be not count . we be not count when we fill in a form in an NHS waiting room , we be not count in the census and local council do not count we in the datum they use to monitor and deliver service . it be high time that change , so I urge member across the House to allow this Bill to progress today . it be high time that public body end this injustice , and as legislator we must put right this wrong and support they in do that . question put and agree to . order , that Preet Kaur Gill , Ben Coleman , Jas Athwal , Jon Pearce , David Pinto - Duschinsky , Joani Reid and Alex Sobel present the Bill . Preet Kaur Gill accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 142 ) . opposition Day - 4th Allotted DayOpposition Day Farming and Inheritance Tax I inform the House that I have select amendment ( a ) in the name of the Prime Minister . I beg to move , that this House regret that the Government have undo its promise to farmer , and be seek to punish they with Inheritance Tax bill of hundred of thousand , or even million , of pound by cut Agricultural Property Relief and Business Property Relief ; far regret that the Government have provide conflict information on the number of farm that will be affect , and have not conduct an impact assessment of this approach ; note that figure from the National Farmers ' Union suggest that some three quarter of farm will be affect ; further note that farmer tend to be asset - rich but cash - poor and that figure from the Country Land and Business Association suggest the average arable farm will have to sell 20 % of its land to pay the Inheritance Tax bill that this policy will cause ; note that the Central Association of Agricultural Valuers anticipate that this will affect 75 , 000 owner of farming business over a generation ; note also that this land be not guarantee to be use for food production if sell ; and call on the Government not to impose the cut to Agricultural Property Relief and Business Property Relief set out in the Budget that will lead to the end of family farming as it have be know for many generation in the UK . this Government have drive farmer to despair . the hike in national insurance , the acceleration of delinked payment , the fertiliser tax , the double cab tax , the stalling of capital grant , the scrapping of the rural service delivery grant and the slowing down of application to farming scheme be all conspire against our rural economy and the survival of british farm . yet the Government have add a death tax to that : the family farm tax , which be see family across the United Kingdom worry about whether they will be able to hand on their farm to their child , as generation before they have do . in the 36 day since Labour ' s Budget , the Chancellor , the Secretary of State and Ministers have try to justify their family farm tax , which will break up family farm , by claim that only 500 farm will be affect each year . awkwardly , the figure use by the Chancellor be contradict by figure produce by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . the left hand do not know what the far - left hand be do . when the figure be query by the National Farmers Union , the Country Land and Business Association , the Tenant Farmers Association , farmer across the United Kingdom and we Conservatives , Ministers tell we all rather patronisingly that we do not understand and that farmer should seek professional advice . well , farmer have seek professional advice , which have reveal just how badly wrong the non - economist Chancellor have get her number . will the shadow Minister give way ? in a moment . since the Budget , the Central Association of Agricultural Valuers have analyse the family farm tax and apply tax law and the reality of modern - day farming to it . its analysis have reveal that up to 75 , 000 individual owner of farming business could be affect over the come generation , even before inflation , which be the equivalent of five time the Government ' s figure of 500 farm affect in 2026 - 27 . how could they have get this so wrong ? it be because this city - dwell Chancellor , Secretary of State and Exchequer Secretary do not understand modern farming or the countryside that they have overlook a major area of tax policy and forget to consider thousand of farmer . as the Exchequer Secretary have confirm , the Government forget to include one of the three route to the relief in their calculation . they have not include business property relief - only claim in their figure , which mean that as many as 14 , 000 tenant farmer who can not claim agricultural property relief because they do not own the land on which they farm be absent from their calculation . what be bad be that minister do not know how many farmer be affect by that . the city - dwell Chancellor and Secretary of State have also forget about the farmer who in year go by follow professional advice and transfer their farm into company or partnership . those farmer will claim only BPR , so they have be leave out of the calculation . again , minister do not know how many farmer be in that position . will the right hon . member give way ? I will in a minute . I be tell by adviser that some farmer choose to use BPR only because it be easy in probate . guess what ? yet again , minister do not know how many farm be in that position , and they have not be include . I will give way first to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and then to the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) . I have so much more to say . I commend the shadow Minister for bring forward the debate . the collective decision to have this debate in the House be one that my farmer and constituent very much support . professional legal advice seek through the Ulster Farmers Union — I must declare an interest as a member of the union — indicate that somewhere in the region of 65 % of small farmer and family farm in Northern Ireland will be affect . when it come to understand that , have Labour really get no idea what be go on ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for intervene . the evidence be build again and again against the assurance that the Chancellor , the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the Exchequer Secretary and the farming Minister have give the House . frankly , the farmer outside deserve well , and so do we as member of Parliament . I will give way to the hon . Lady and then carry on with the calculation that the Government have get so wrong . the right hon . member leave a trail of destruction across the Government . she be the Health Secretary who break the NHS , the Prisons Minister who run out of prison place and the Treasury Minister who crash the economy — no wonder her constituency majority crash from 28 , 000 to 5 , 000 . [ interruption . ] do she not think it be time to apologise and for once to support the Government , who be bring back stability to the british economy and farmer ’ profitability ? order . I know that member be jeer about reading . I know that when I come to the House it be a rule that you should not read , but both side be do it . remember that . rise — on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I have a point of order — from the shadow Minister ' s good friend , of course . this point of order be spontaneous , unlike that intervention . [ interruption . ] I be Mr Spontaneity . Mr Speaker , you be entirely right that many right hon . and hon . member read their speech almost verbatim , but surely it be just rude and discourteous to the House for the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) to read a supposedly spontaneous intervention as if it have just come into her mind . she manage to find a typewriter and a printer in order to write down two page of intervention . as I expect , spontaneity do not make it a point of order . as the first female Prime Minister say , if they be go after you personally , it mean you be win the argument . let I help the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby with the second set of calculation that her Chancellor have get so wrong , because the Chancellor ' s cockeyed accounting extend to the claim that farmer will be able to transfer £ 3 million tax - free . that be wrong . only a few in a specific set of circumstance will be able to claim that magic figure . [ interruption . ] there be jeer from Government Members , but that amount be not available to widow , it be not available to people who be single and it be not available to people who own a farm with another relative . labour ' s magic £ 3 million figure assume that the surviving spouse live some sort of monastic existence where they have no personal effect to pass on to their love one . as farmer from Sussex have ask , why be widow ' family be target ? a family write to I about their mother , who be a widow . they have calculate that they face an additional £ 200 , 000 tax bill from Labour because their father die before the Budget and so do not know to transfer his allowance . we know that some Labour Members of Parliament have concern . the hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) , who represent over 500 farm — I do not know whether he be in his place — have ask for assurance on the accuracy of figure use by the Government . give the demolition of the Chancellor ' s figure by the CAAV and many other , will he vote for the family farm in his constituency or will he toe the party line ? the CAAV ' s concern about the figure be peddle by the Government be share by the Institute for Fiscal Studies , CBI Economics and even the Office for Budget Responsibility . but it be not just about the number : Labour member need to understand the emotional toll of this terrible tax . it be the worry , the distress and the sense of betrayal feel by family that should stop ambitious labour mp in their track before they parrot without question the figure give to they by their Ministers . rise — I will give way to the hon . Lady . I hope that she do not fall into the category that I just describe . the right hon . Lady talk about the figure . do she accept that her Government ' s record be one of leave £ 300 million of the farming budget unspent in the Treasury coffer , not help farmer ? I thank the hon . Lady sincerely for raise that point , because she have — perhaps unwittingly — identify a contradiction in DEFRA ' s own claim . it talk about a £ 300 million underspend , but last week it be cancel the very capital grant that farmer around the country have be invest in , say that it have run out of money . well , it can not be both . perhaps that be yet another example of the cockeyed accounting of the Chancellor and the Environment Secretary . do my right hon . friend agree that what be quite frightening about this policy be that perhaps the Government know exactly what they be do , and that , a bit like " Animal Farm " , they think everything should be collectivise ? my right hon . friend , who have a wonderful way with word , ask a question that many member of rural community up and down the United Kingdom be ask themselves . in fact , when the Prime Minister do regional medium a couple of week ago , Sean Dunderdale , the wonderful presenter on BBC Radio Lincolnshire , ask he what he have get against the people of Lincolnshire . I might ask : what have this Labour Government get against the countryside ? rise — I will give way to my right hon . friend and neighbour and then I will make some progress . as my right hon . friend have say , the word " betrayal " be fitting because , long before the election , pledge be give , by both the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister , that these change would not be make . order . the right hon . member be a very experienced Member of this House , and he know that he be mean to address the Chair , not the Front Bench . Mr Speaker , I know that you , as a man of integrity and honour , will be as disappointed as I be that the Government should promise one thing and then do the exact opposite . it be a great pleasure to have the right hon . Gentleman not just as a friend but as my Lincolnshire neighbour . he have put his finger on the point — genuinely , it be the next paragraph in my speech . some Labour mp must be haunt by the phrasing from the Secretary of State during the general election campaign — because I suspect that they repeat it up and down the market town and village in their constituency — when he describe fear that Labour would impose this family farm tax as " desperate nonsense " . labour candidate will have repeat that line and assure the farming family in their constituency that Labour would never treat rural community in that way , yet within week the Chancellor be plan to do exactly that . since then , family across the country have be try to work out how to pick up the piece after Labour ' s family farm tax bomb . they will not forget . a farmer from Derbyshire email I this week to say : " our hard work and investment as a family have be wipe away in the stroke of a pen . " they go on to say : " my 60 year old husband have a bleed on the brain in June and thankfully have make a full recovery but I ' ve never see he so stressed . he doesn ' t know what to do " . hon . member represent seat in Derbyshire may wish to reflect on how they will respond to that . a farmer from Northumberland have write to I as follow : " we have to talk about which one of my parent be go to die first , in front of they . " he say that Labour be " destroy people ' s live with this policy . many of we be worried about the mental state of many within agriculture and be concerned that it may be the final straw for some . " in fairness , the hon . member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) , who be in his place , have voice concern about whether his Government be listen to ordinary people about this . will he vote for his farmer or will he toe the party line ? as a farmer ' s wife , I understand the emotional impact that my right hon . friend set out so clearly . this be about not only the farmer who will be affect but all the farmer who know that they might be affect . this be a tax on tragedy , and no one know if it will befall they . my hon . friend and Lincolnshire neighbour set out exactly the personal impact of the tax . I know how Treasury Ministers look at spreadsheet and those terribly impressive pack of information from civil servant . [ interruption . ] I remind Government Members that this be deeply serious ; it be not a joke . I also know that Chancellor after Chancellor have look at the figure and come to the conclusion that this be a political decision . the current Chancellor have get it wrong . the shadow Secretary of State make an important point about the health and wellbeing of our farmer . as operation waiting time be almost three time high when she be Health Secretary than they be in 2010 , do she not welcome the investment that this Government be put into our NHS ? [ interruption . ] do not worry ; I will deal with that . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the important issue of mental health in farm across the national health service . I be proud to work , as a Member of Parliament and as Secretary of State for Health , to massively increase investment in mental health service . if he be a rural MP , I be sure that he will know how isolated farmer can be and the pressure on their emotion at the good of time — they have the weather , disease and crop cycle to contend with . this pressure merely add to that , as we have already hear from farmer who have contact I . I also gently remind the hon . Gentleman that the family farm tax — or tax on tragedy , as my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) call it so bleakly — will raise £ 500 million in 2026 - 27 . accord to the King ' s Fund , that be equivalent to about a day ' s worth of service in the NHS in England . it will not be quite the game changer that some in the hon . Gentleman ' s party believe it to be . what about the family in the south - west whose beloved father die a decade ago in tragic circumstance , leave three young child who be now in their teen ? the mother have run the farm and bring up their child in the midst of their grief . she have now be diagnose with a life - threaten illness at the age of 50 . two of the child want to carry on the farm when they reach 18 but , should the unthinkable happen and they lose their mum , they will be saddle with Labour ' s family farm tax of £ 700 , 000 . what empathetic and meaningful response do the Secretary of State , who be not in his place — where be he ? — or the Treasury Minister have for that family ? they will be watch and listen . we take the unusual step of give lot of notice to Labour mp that we would debate labour ' s family farm tax today . we do that because we want to give Labour mps in rural seat time to reflect and consider whether they can continue to support this vindictive tax . for example , a Welsh landowner tell I that he will have to sell six tenant farm to pay labour ' s family farm tax . that be six farming family — who we on the Opposition Benches would describe as work people — who will lose their business , their family home and their child ' s farming future . those six farming family have be forget by this Government . the hon . member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) have call on the Treasury to produce its modelling on the impact on family farm . will the Treasury do that , at the Back Bencher ' s request ? how will he vote today ? the hon . member for South East Cornwall ( Anna Gelderd ) meet farmer early this month and claim that she would take their concern back to Westminster . will she raise those today and vote against this tax ? I have consult widely with farming community and farmer in my constituency . I have not be able to identify a single farmer who feel that there be anything good in this policy whatsoever . do my right hon . friend know whether there be a single Labour Member of Parliament represent a rural community who genuinely believe that they will be vote in their constituent ' interest tonight ? I sincerely thank my right hon . friend for set out clearly the choice ahead of member across the House . we on the Opposition Benches know who we be stand up for . we back our farmer . we understand how difficult farming be as a way of life . it will be for individual member of Parliament to decide how they vote . the right hon . Lady talk about choice and back farmer . the current Leader of the Opposition do a trade deal with Australia and New Zealand that sell farmer down the river . be that her version of back british farmer ? I be pretty sure that the hon . Gentleman have his fact wrong about the then Trade Secretary . the conservative party be in favour of trade deal , but we want trade deal that well support our farming industry . [ interruption . ] before Labour member start shout at I , he will know that the fear and concern about those trade deal have not come to fruition . what be more , we as conservative be proud of the fact that we would not enter trade deal that require the flooding to these shore of chlorinate chicken or hormone - treat beef . I also gently remind the hon . Gentleman that , as a Back Bencher , talk about foreign territory give the context of the debate about the Chagos island be a bit brave . we do not have much trade with the Chagos island . my right hon . friend be right to highlight the devastating effect of this policy and to highlight the incredible rounding - up exercise on the Treasury account book of the contribution that it will make to NHS expenditure . with the Labour party have a serious foothold in rural constituency for the first time since 1945 , do she not find this rather inept politic , which be perhaps not surprising from such a London - centric Front Bench ? the policy show a wilful ignorance of rural life and a deliberate attempt not to understand the pressure and be , in essence , sell those rural Labour mp down the river . I thank my hon . friend for that point . there be some interesting polling come out today , which I will deal with . of course , Mr Speaker , I very much accept your point about trade , but we be genuinely concerned about the national security implication of the Chagos island deal . I can assure the right hon . Lady that so be I . very much so , Mr Speaker . I will give way to the hon . member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) . be he go to speak up for his farmer ? I commend the right hon . Lady ' s commitment to honesty . she talk about give Labour Members advance sight of the Opposition day motion , but when do the Labour Whips Office receive the title of the Opposition day debate ? may I invite she to correct the record perhaps ? I be so sorry — in fairness , the hon . Gentleman be obviously speak to farmer in his constituency on Sunday . do I hear that there be a protest go on in his constituency at the moment ? in any event , I actually make the announcement on national television on Sunday ; perhaps he be not watch . farmer at home will be wonder what on earth we be argue over . one word that the right hon . Lady have not mention be Brexit — the great Tory disaster of the last Parliament . how much do she estimate that Brexit cost farmer and the rural community ? the hon . Gentleman and I , unusually , can join force on this matter . while I be go to resist the temptation to revisit Brexit , what I will do be point he to paragraph 4 . 11 of the CAAV report — order . you be face totally the wrong way — I can not pick up anything . please turn around . my apology , Mr Speaker . I be remind of paragraph 4 . 11 of the CAAV report , which set out the peculiar legal problem pose by the family farm tax in the context of scottish farming tenant . it be incredibly complicated , but that be a real concern , and I trust that the SNP will be explore it alongside Conservative Members of Parliament . in conclusion , before ambitious Back Benchers , or , indeed , the Exchequer Secretary , get to their foot and accuse these farmer , and we , of scaremongere — something they have be happy to do in the past — they should think on , discover some humility and compassion , and ask why ten of thousand of decent , hard - work and sensible people across the United Kingdom know that the Chancellor have get it so wrong . polling by the Country Land and Business Association today show what the public think : they do not think farmer should be whack with the family farm tax . they think that Labour have break its promise to end countryside decline ; they think the Government should be cut taxis on rural business ; and 70 % be not confident that the Labour Government can deliver growth to rural community . I say to every hon . member on the Government Benches : do the right thing and stand up for our farmer , who be the good in the world and whose produce be renowne globally . they feed we , and now they need we . Labour MPs need to join we and axe the family farm tax . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " House " to the end of the question and add : " thank farmer for their immense contribution to the UK economy and the nation ' s food security ; welcome the Government ' s commitment of £ 5 billion to the farming budget over the next two year , the big budget for sustainable food production and nature recovery in UK history ; acknowledge that the Government be have to make difficult decision to protect farm and farmer in the context of the £ 22 billion fiscal blackhole leave by the previous Government ; recognise that the Government be seek to target Agricultural Property Relief and Business Property Relief to make they fair whilst also fix the public service that everyone rely on ; and note that under the change announce in the Budget around three quarter of claim for Agricultural Property Relief , include those that also claim Business Property Relief , be expect to not pay more Inheritance Tax . " I welcome the chance to open the debate on behalf of the Government . the Government ' s commitment to farmer be steadfast . as our amendment make clear , farmer make an immense contribution to the UK economy and to the nation ' s food security . we recognise and respect the crucial contribution that farmer make to our country ' s way of life . we must also recognise , however , the state of our public service and the mess in which we find the public finance when we come into power . there be no way we could have leave thing as they be . unlike the Conservatives , there be never any question of Labour ignore the £ 22 billion black hole that we uncover in the public finance . we have to bring the previous Administration ' s fiscal irresponsibility to an end . we have to ensure that our country live within its mean . we have to get public service back on their foot while meet our tough new fiscal rule , which end borrow for day - to - day spending . that be what we , as a responsible government , have to do . that be why , at the autumn Budget , the Chancellor set out a number of difficult but necessary decision on tax , welfare and spending . these decision be to restore economic stability , fix the public finance and rebuild our public service . one of the decision we take be to reform agricultural and business property relief . we choose to do so in a way that maintain significant tax relief for family farm , while fix the public finance as fairly as possible . the hon . Gentleman will want to explain this , Mr Speaker . the Government have argue that only 27 % of farm will be affect by this measure , while the National Farmers Union say it be 75 % . will he at least give we an indication from the Dispatch Box , perhaps support by a note in the Library of the House , show the modelling that contradict the NFU ' s figure ? I point the right hon . gentleman to the letter the Chancellor recently send to the Treasury Committee , which set out some of these figure in detail . some of the confusion that he and other hon . member have encounter might come from the fact that there be different set of datum . the set of datum he may be refer to relate to the total value of farm across the country , but if we be think about inheritance tax claim , it be right to look at his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs claim datum on inheritance tax . look simply at the value of a farm do not tell we what the inheritance tax liability for that farm may be , give that we would have to look at the ownership structure — at who own what — and at any liability , and so on . that might be where some of the right hon . Gentleman ' s confusion be come from . at Treasury question yesterday , I raise with the hon . Gentleman the case of Upper Peppershill farm in Long Crendon , a small 380 - acre arable farm in my constituency , which the shadow Secretary of State and the Leader of the opposition visit a few week ago . the family have calculate that if they borrow the money to pay this new tax , it will take they 40 year to pay it back . what do the Minister say to the Seed family in Long Crendon about the tax bill they face ? it be not appropriate for I , as a Minister , to give specific tax advice to one family , but I will talk about the general principle behind our reform . in fact , I be about to begin set out some of the detail of our policy . on the general principle , be the Minister seriously say that all the tax adviser advise all the farmer across the country and all the land valuer , who be qualified in a way that he be not , be wrong , and that he be right ? what I be explain be that the datum for claim through HMRC , which show the claim make under agricultural property relief and business property relief , be the correct set of datum to work out future liability on that basis . that be what the projection that we have put out be base on . that be set out in the Chancellor ' s letter to the Treasury Committee that I mention . I urge the right hon . Gentleman and his colleague to review that letter to understand the datum I be talk about in more detail . rise — I would like to make a bit of progress to explain some of the detail behind our policy , which may answer some of the question that hon . member be jump to their foot to ask . we know that inheritance tax be always an emotive issue , and understandably so . it be a natural desire for people to want to pass on their asset to the people they love when they pass away . the standard single rate of inheritance tax have be 40 % since 1988 , and asset have generally long be entitle to nil - rate band , relief and exemption . a form of relief for agricultural property be introduce on estate duty in the Finance Act 1948 , mean that this duty be charge at 55 % of the rate that would normally have apply . a new agricultural property relief and a business property relief be create in the mid - 1970 with the introduction of the capital transfer tax . the rate of relief increase over time to a maximum of 50 % relief ; that maximum rate be then increase to 100 % in 1992 . this mean that agricultural landowner and farmer do not receive 100 % relief for almost all of the 20th century , and yet farm pass down between the generation . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . that be why the law be change to introduce 100 % relief . family farm be not be pass down because the value of land be increase . will he consider that before bring in these change ? to address the right hon . Gentleman ' s point , we recognise that agricultural and business property relief play an important role in support family farm , but the full unlimited exemption from inheritance tax have simply become unsustainable . the four most recent year - worth of datum make clear why . the data show that a very small number of agricultural property relief claimant , include those who claim business property relief too , benefit from a very significant amount of relief . in total , 47 % of the Exchequer cost of the relief go to the top 7 % of claim . to be clear what that mean , I will put it another way . for every 14 or so estate , the top one among they claim half the total relief . let I tell the Minister what concern I most . there have not be an impact assessment , but if the major driver for the Government , whether we accept it or not , be to raise some money from this source , why be other more effective mechanism not use , such as business roll - over relief , where a business could be sell in another context and roll over into buy the land , defer capital gain tax ? if that mechanism have be use , the money would have be take from much wealthy people who be not actually produce food in the first place . now , we be capture a massive proportion of small family farm completely unnecessarily , because due consideration of well alternative be not do by the Minister . I reassure the right hon . Gentleman , for whom I have a lot of respect personally , that we carefully consider how to calibrate the policy to ensure that significant relief from inheritance tax be still available to family farm , while at the same time fix the public finance in as fair a way as possible . I be very grateful to the Minister for give way . he have just refer to his analysis of four year of datum which lead he and the Government to this position . that be an incredible thing to ask the House to believe , because just a few month ago his right hon . friend the now Prime Minister and Secretary of State be specifically rule out these policy to audience of farmer and landowner . if the datum of four year ' standing tell he that this be the right policy , why be those now minister economical with the actualit é when they speak to the farmer themselves ? the datum we do not have before the general election be the £ 22 billion black hole that the hon . Gentleman ' s party leave in the public finance . he know that , because it be acknowledge by the Office for Budget Responsibility that the full information be not share with it . it have say that its forecast would have be " materially different " have it know that that be the case . we have have to take a number of difficult decision . this talk of datum remind I that over 12 , 000 farmer and agribusiness have go out of business since 2010 . will the Minister reassure I about what we be do to improve profitability in british farming ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the decimation of business during the Conservatives ' time in office . business across the economy need stability , public finance on a firm footing and investment in our public service . that be what business across the country need to invest for the future and grow . I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way . he be a Treasury Minister . may I suggest that some of the disparity between the Treasury figure and those of other reputable body represent agricultural interest be because of land value ? average value for ordinary land in the Cotswolds be now £ 15 , 000 an acre . will he accede to the request of my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , a former Chief Secretary to the Treasury , and publish an up - to - date impact assessment on how many farm this tax will affect ? a lot of datum have already be publish . I mention the Chancellor ' s letter to the Treasury Committee , and further detail on the impact will be publish alongside the draft legislation in the normal way . I suggest that the hon . Gentleman read the letter to the Select Committee . as he and the his right hon . friend will know , the impact be typically publish at the time of draft legislation . that be the normal process . indeed , it be the norm under the previous Government . rise — I will take one more intervention and then I will make progress . some of the correspondence I have receive on this issue talk about the fact that the measure inflate land value . do my hon . friend agree with that assessment , and what will the change do to help farmer across the country in that respect ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the fact that some of the feature of the current inheritance tax relief system mean that it be an attractive vehicle for tax planning to reduce inheritance tax liability . People who have wealth who have never be farmer and do not intend to become farmer have be use it as a way to avoid inheritance tax . in fact , reduce that should take some of the pressure out of agricultural land value and , I would hope , help to make a more sustainable farming sector in the future . it be important to get the fact right and to get the right number of farm in frame . the Minister must know that the CAAV have say that the Government estimate be down by a factor of five . accord to its impartial independent review , 75 , 000 farm will be in frame for this tax , not the figure the Minister be rely on . my response to the right hon . Gentleman be the same as that to the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) . I believe he be look at the datum for the total value of farm , rather than for inheritance tax claim . the two be different thing . for instance , a farm worth £ 5 million own in equal share by five individual would have no inheritance tax liability because of the way claim work . that be where I think some of the confusion have come from . there be different datum around the value of farm and around the value of inheritance tax claim . for the purpose of today ' s debate , it be the inheritance tax claim that be the right datum to focus on . on the point about fact , I be fascinate by the end of the shadow Secretary of State ' s contribution . she opine on whether Labour be stick to its promise to end the decline in the countryside . I wonder who be in government for the last 14 year while the countryside be decline . the Conservative Government sell out british farmer through trade deal and 12 , 000 farming business go out of business . do my hon . friend agree ? I very much agree with my hon . friend . he point out a repeat pattern of the opposition : their total refusal to take any responsibility for the damage they cause over the past 14 year . they may wish it never happen ; the british people disagree . rise — I be go to make some progress . I just set out some statistic that show how this tax relief be very concentrated in a small number of claim . in the context of the dire fiscal situation we inherit and the critical need to fix the public finance and get public service back on their foot , it can not be right to maintain such a significant level of relief for a very small number of claimant . that be why , from 6 April 2026 , the full 100 % relief from inheritance tax will be restrict to the first £ 1 million of combine agricultural and business property . above that amount , there will be an unlimited 50 % relief , so inheritance tax will be pay at a reduce effective rate of up to 20 % , rather than the standard 40 % . the new system , it should be note , remain more generous than in the past . as I mention , the rate of relief prior to 1992 be a maximum of 50 % on all agricultural and business asset , include the first £ 1 million . the relief we be provide will be on top of all the other exemption and nil - rate band that people can access for inheritance tax . take in combination , this mean that a couple with farmland will typically be able to pass on up to £ 3 million - worth of asset to their descendant without pay any inheritance tax . I thank the Minister for give way . the CAAV call the £ 3 million figure " unrealistic " and " unreasonable " . do he not agree ? the £ 3 million figure be what a typical couple could expect to pass on to their direct descendant use the various nil - rate band and inheritance tax relief . I would advise any specific family to get advice from an accountant or financial adviser . in term of the scale of relief , when we combine the inheritance tax relief to agricultural and business property relief , along with the nil - rate band , nil - rate residence band and the transferability between spouse , that be how we come to the figure of £ 3 million . give that he appear to be lead for the Government on this issue , rather than the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , can the Minister tell I how many farmer he have meet personally over the last three month ? he seem very confident about how this will affect they . the exact number , please , of the farmer you have meet personally over that period . order . the hon . Lady should ask how many farmer the Minister have meet , rather than how many I have meet . I have meet member of the National Farmers Union , represent the farming industry , a number of time since the Budget for detailed discussion . that have help we to understand the impact that this policy will have and to ask for their support in communicate how it will work . rise — I be go to make some progress . I be go to continue to explain how some of the other exemption within the inheritance tax system will benefit people affect by this policy . can the Minister confirm that in the case of farm worth several million pound , any mortgageable value be not include for the purpose of inheritance tax ? might that explain the discrepancy in some of the figure that be be bandy around , in which I believe mortgage have not be take into account ? that be an important point . look at the pure asset value of farm do not tell we what their inheritance tax liability might be . as my hon . friend rightly point out , any liability must be net off against the value of any estate , and the ownership structure — the various nil rate band , previous spousal transfer , gifting and so on — need to be consider . will the Minister give way ? no . I be go to make some progress . as my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) have point out , a range of exemption need to be take into account . full exemption for transfer between spouse and civil partner will continue to apply . any transfer to individual more than seven year before death , as gift , will continue to fall fully outside the scope of inheritance tax , and taper relief will apply in certain circumstance within that time . furthermore , any tax that be due in relation to these asset can be pay in instalment over 10 year , interest free . those payment term be more generous than in any other part of the tax system . as I have mention several time during the debate , these decision have be base on understanding that draw on datum from both DEFRA and HMRC . I note that there have be some confusion on the Opposition Benches , whether wilful or not , about what the data show . the hon . Gentleman have make an important point , but analysis will show that over a 10 - year period , 99 % of the profit from the average 350 - acre arable farm own by a couple will go back towards pay inheritance tax . that do not leave enough money for they either to invest or to live . I wonder how the hon . Gentleman think they can deal with that . I have confidence in the way in which we have calibrate the policy . as I say to the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , it have balance the need to retain significant , generous provision of inheritance tax relief for family farm with ensure that , at the same time , we fix the public finance in the fairest way possible . the hon . Gentleman be be very generous with his time . in view of the point that have just be make by my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , will he not consider , at the very least , look at some dispensation for farmer above a certain age , give the lack of time that they will have to plan for this intervention ? the truth be that someone who be near retirement age will be face with the prospect of 10 year of all their project profit be eat up by this tax , which will mean that the farm can not go to the next generation . the hon . Gentleman must surely look at some mitigation to deal with that reality for so many farmer who be concentrate in that old age group . we know that individual circumstance will vary . any individual who be concerned about their specific tax liability should obviously consult an accountant or financial adviser . we would not know , from a thumbnail sketch , whether that person have any inherit nil rate band , what their liability be , what decision they have make about gift , and so on . a huge number of factor will play into this , and it be right for individual to seek specific advice . thing that be say in this Chamber may be create undue anxiety , when people should be look into the detail . the Minister seem to be try to suggest that not much farmland will have to be sell off as a result of this policy . however , on 4 November , follow an urgent question , when I ask his colleague the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs , the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , how food security would be preserve if farm have to be break up and sell off possibly for development , he reply : " of course there be trade - off . there be a range of pressure on our land , in respect of housing , food , energy and so many other thing . that seem to constitute an acceptance that we will lose farming land , and people will be build on it instead . that be not how I interpret the comment , but I make no apology for the fact that we want to support farmer , as well as make our energy transition and building home for people across the country . we need to ensure that we be achieve all the goal that the people of this country elect we to achieve . I want to say more about datum , because several member have raise the subject . as I have explain a few time now , the DEFRA datum show the asset value of farm in England , but it be not possible to accurately infer a future inheritance tax liability from datum on farm asset value . any inheritance tax liability that farming asset may face will be affect by who the owner be , the nature of the ownership , how many owner there be , any borrowing that they have , and how they plan their affair . the Minister talk about datum . give the massive discrepancy involve , and the impact of this policy , if the datum show in 12 month and 24 month that the Government have get this catastrophically wrong , will they revisit the policy and do a u - turn ? when we approach policy in government we test they thoroughly and consider the detail and the datum , and we ensure that any conclusion we draw be base on the correct set of datum , which be part of the conversation that we be have today . I do not know whether it be due to mischief or misunderstanding , but there be a certain focus on the total value of farm rather than on inheritance tax liability . the datum on inheritance tax liability be the correct datum to look at when evaluate the impact that the policy may have . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make some progress . as I say early , a farm worth £ 5 million but own by five relative in equal share could have no inheritance tax liability . will the Minister give way ? I will give way to the Liz Truss cheerleader on the Back Benches . the CLA have point out that 46 % of farm be own by individual . the datum produce in the letter do not take that into account ; it concentrate on couple who will receive the relief . I note that the hon . Gentleman ' s grasp of economic be about as good as Liz Truss ' s be . as I have say , the importance of the claim datum be that it tell we what the inheritance tax liability will be . I understand that member be refer to many other source and set of datum , but when we be look at the impact of a change in inheritance tax relief , it be claim datum that tell we what that be likely to be . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make some progress . I have give way many time already . look at the HMRC datum , which relate to estate make claim for agricultural and business property relief , be the correct way to understand inheritance tax liability . that datum show that our reform be expect to result in up to 520 estate claim agricultural property relief , include those that also claim business property relief , pay some more inheritance tax in 2026 - 27 . let I put that in context . it mean that nearly three quarter of estate claim agricultural property relief , include those that also claim business property relief , will not pay any more tax as a result of these measure . as this change be introduce , we expect people to respond in a number of way to reduce their inheritance tax liability , and the costing by the Office for Budget Responsibility assume that that will be the case . People may change ownership structure , plan for their succession differently , and make great use of gift provision and insurance . I thank the Minister for give way ; he be be generous . he have mention claim for agricultural property relief and business property relief , but what about claim for business property relief alone ? have they be include in his figure ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . as we know , any farmer who be rent out land or farm it themselves will typically have an estate that include an element that be eligible for agricultural property relief . the figure I set out include those who claim for business property relief as well , and those figure be set out in the Chancellor ' s letter to the Treasury Committee . despite attempt by the Opposition to hijack this debate , I can honestly say — [ interruption . ] if they want to champion our agricultural community , they might have start around 14 year ago . the conversation that I have have with farmer in my constituency have be balance and productive in their scope , with an understanding of why the provision have be bring in . give that two third of the land buy in England in 2023 be buy by non - farmer , do the Minister agree that it be right that this government be take the opportunity to close what be essentially a tax loophole for non - farmer ? I thank my hon . friend very much for her intervention . it be tell that when she make such an important and sensible point , the opposition do not want to hear it and try to shout she down . as she rightly point out , our change to the relief will make buy land less attractive as a means of inheritance tax planning . this mean that land price be likely to become more affordable for farmer , thank to a reduction in tax - motivate investment in agricultural land . will the Minister give way ? I have give way already , so I be go to make some progress . the reform should be see in the context of the significant exist support for the farming industry in the wide tax system , include the exemption from business rate for agricultural land and building , the ongoing entitlement for vehicle and machinery use in agriculture to use rebated diesel and biofuel , and the exemption from the plastic packaging tax for the plastic film use to produce silage bale . on top of that , farmer be able to add together their profit from farm over two to five year and be taxable on the average of those profit , build flexibility into their tax arrangement for difficult year and unexpected challenge . do the Minister agree that in the Government ' s haste to target tax avoider such as Jeremy Clarkson and other , as have be mention , they have actually catch a lot of small and medium - sized farmer in their sight , in a completely irresponsible way ? although our policy should discourage the kind of tax planning to which I think the hon . Gentleman refer , the policy be broad than that . it be necessary to balance significant relief from inheritance tax on family farm with the need to fix the public finance , and that be the balanced decision that we have take with this policy . of course , the decision on this tax policy sit alongside the Government ' s wide decision at Budget 2024 . there be £ 5 billion over two year for farming and land management in England , which will help restore stability and confidence in the sector . that include the large ever budget direct at sustainable food production and nature recovery in our country ' s history . despite the difficult fiscal inheritance , £ 60 million of funding have also be prioritise for the farm recovery fund , to support farmer impact by severe wet weather over the last year . the Minister rightly mention the need for more sustainable land management , but be it not the case that the change to APR will actually undermine the sustainable land management initiative that farmer in Mid Sussex be try to deliver every day ? no , that be not the case . the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , who will be respond at the end of this debate , can set out more about what the Government be do to support farmer in their work on land management across the country . I back british farming ahead of the general election , and I back the farmer in my constituency . I be proud to sit on these Benches with a Labour Government who be back british farmer with an investment of £ 5 billion in the recent Budget . do my hon . friend agree that it be absolutely essential that we make sure that the money get into the pocket of our farmer ? my farmer complain about the delay that they experience when the conservative party be in power . my hon . friend be absolutely right to draw attention to the mismanagement under the previous government and to how important it be that , through the commitment we make in the Budget on the farming budget over the next two year , we support farmer across the country as evidence of our steadfast support . I recognise that the reform we be make to agricultural and business property relief will have an impact on some individual . I recognise that some of the large estate , particularly those worth over £ 3 million , may be affect by the change , but the reform to the relief will maintain significant level of relief from inheritance tax , at a total Exchequer cost of over £ 1 billion in the year that the reform take effect , before rise far . they offer support for family farm and business across the country . we could not justify leave the situation unchanged , with a full , unlimited tax relief benefit a very small number of estate by a very significant amount . do my hon . friend agree that perhaps unsurprisingly , give the name of their political party , Conservative member seek to preserve the status quo , which include the top 7 % of claimant — the wealthy — accounting for 40 % of the overall APR budget ? do he agree that the Conservatives need to set out how they would make the situation fair and provide a well deal for our agricultural sector ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to point out that the conservative party have no idea about how the country need to change , no idea about how to get the public finance back in order , and no idea about how to get public service back on their foot or how to deliver economic stability . farmer in my constituency tell I how much they be struggle to see a gp and to get public transport — the bus just be not there . the rural economy have be ruin by 14 year of Conservative Government . can the Minister reassure we that the necessary action that we be take in the Budget will get our public service work again for our farming and rural community ? order . intervention should relate to the debate in hand . I will not try your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I feel that my hon . friend ' s intervention relate to the debate in hand , as we have have to take a tough decision on taxation policy in order to fund our public service . those public service be , of course , enjoy by people across the country , include farmer and those in rural community . will the Minister give way on that point ? I will make some progress . as I be say , we could not justify leave the situation unchanged , with a full , unlimited tax relief benefit a very small number of estate by a very significant amount , give that there be such an urgent need to repair the public finance and to improve the hospital , school and road on which people across the country depend , include those in rural community . there be a lot of talk from the Opposition , who be get very excited by this debate , about farm , but we have to remember that farm rely on farm worker . in the name of accuracy , could my hon . friend put on the record a reminder of which opposition party , include the Lib Dems , vote for the abolition of the Agricultural Wages Board under the last government ? that actually drive down rural wage , and we should be talk about farm worker . be it not true to say that when the opposition refer to exemption , the only thing they want to talk about be exemption from their own record be under scrutiny ? my hon . friend make a powerful point about the record of the opposition party . in our budget , we make sure to protect the payslip of work people by not increase income tax , employee national insurance or vat . our approach to reform strike the right balance between provide significant tax relief for family farm and fix the public finance in a fair way . as such , I commend the Government ' s amendment to the motion before we today . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be my utter privilege to speak on behalf of my party and 1 , 500 farmer in Westmorland and Lonsdale . I represent people all the way from the Yorkshire dale and the North Pennines to the Lake District and the Cartmel peninsula . we be proud of our farmer not just because they feed we and care for our environment , but because they be the steward of our heritage . when UNESCO award the Lake District world heritage site status , it give as much credit to the farmer as it do to the glacier that form the landscape in which we live , which drive a tourism economy with more than 20 million visitor a year . we seriously value our farmer , and they need to hear that , because the tone of the debate — not just today , but over the last few month — have suggest that politician do not value farmer . however , word be cheap . I have no doubt about the hon . Gentleman ' s personal commitment , but do not the liberal Democrats have a credibility problem ? for all the rhetoric in this Chamber and outside , when they actually get their hand on power in local government , such as in Oxfordshire , they brutally attack their farmer by ban all meat and dairy ? that be nonsense . wherever Liberal Democrats be in control , we back and support our farmer and be proud to do so . talk be cheap , and most people in this House will at some time quite rightly have utter the sentiment that british farmer be the good in the world , without actually understand why . it be true that they really be the good in the world , and that be because the way in which our farming economy be structure be base on the family farm . family farming make a difference because it have close husbandry , high environmental standard , high welfare standard and well quality produce . it be not an accident that british farming be the good in the world . do the hon . Gentleman think that the difficulty with the Labour party be that it just do not understand farmer , because they do not fit neatly into its clumsy definition of what a work person be ? these be people who work 12 hour a day , outside in the tough environment , and who work into their old age , but they do not get into the Labour club . there be something in that , and I will come to that in a moment when I talk about poverty in our countryside , when it just do not look the way people in urban community think it ought to look . there be no doubt that family farm be under attack , but this do not start on 4 July , and I want to go through why we have end up where we be now . the botched transition from the old farm payment scheme to the new one be the principal source of hardship among our farmer . let we start with the fact that the environmental land management scheme — ELMS — budget see a £ 350 million underspend under the last government , and that be not an accident . it be blindingly obvious that that be go to happen . one hill farmer I speak to just last month tell I that , as a consequence of the transition , he will lose £ 40 , 000 a year in basic payment . to replace it , he will gain £ 14 , 000 under the sustainable farming incentive . by the way , it cost he £ 6 , 000 to go through a land agent in order to get in in the first place . the hon . Gentleman be make a profoundly important point . not for the first time he be speak as a liberal Democrat , but also in a way that belie the fact that he be a liberal Democrat , because he be genuinely committed to the countryside . he have make a point about family farm ; the important thing about they be not only the argument that he have already advance , but the sense that they represent a continuum — an investment for the future . the reason this policy be so detrimental be because it impact on that sense that farmer be invest now for generation to come . I be go to get to that , but the right hon . Gentleman will have to tolerate I accurately pin blame on his side before I do so . we be tell by the last government that they would maintain the amount of funding that we use to spend when we be in the European Union . in England , that be £ 2 . 4 billion . in one sense , and one sense only , they kind of keep that promise because it be £ 2 . 4 billion throughout that five year . however , they do not spend it , because they phase out the old scheme very rapidly , cause a great hardship , particularly to small family farm , and they bring in the new scheme far too slowly and make it very difficult for people to get into they . by the way , the people who be able to get into the new scheme be the big farmer . they be the landowner who have land agent to help they get into the scheme . so the large landowner with the big estate manage to get into those scheme . they be all right , broadly speak . it be the small family farm — the farmer who own their own farm and the tenant — who have struggle . it be also worth bear in mind that there have be a little bit of inflation since 2019 . the cost of run a farm have go through the roof when it come to feed , energy , fuel and all sort of input cost . so the fact that we be at just £ 2 . 4 billion now , as we be five and a bit year ago , be absolute nonsense . it be important also to recognise that the grant that be available under the last government , and now , be in reality often only available to those who have the cash flow to be able to get they in the first place . if land price be to go down , as have be describe by the Minister — I be not sure I believe that — and a farmer have borrow heavily from the bank , the bank might look at the value of their asset and could possibly call in the loan , which would put the farmer out of business right away . I have hear that from land agent in my own constituency , and my hon . friend make a really interesting point . we obviously do not know what will happen unless and until it happen , but that could be exactly what happen , in which case there would be no money to invest in business and people would end up not be able to pay back their loan . also , the Government would not make anything like the amount of money that they think they be go to , so whatever the outcome , it be bad news for farmer and also for the Exchequer . it be also worth bear in mind where the money that the last Government spend have go . it have go on landscape recovery and other scheme mostly take up by very , very large estate , where either small farmer get nothing or tenant farmer have to do exactly be they be tell . in my part of the world , we have see something akin to lakeland clearance over the last three or four year as a result of all this . so let we not forget that before 4 July , the farming economy be under enormous threat and in enormous danger , either by accident or design , due to the failure of the previous Government , and the Conservatives need to take that on the chin . the hon . Gentleman mention tenant farmer , and I know that he will have some in his constituency , as I do in mine in Shipley . nationwide , a third of all farmland be manage by tenant farmer . last month , the Department announce the appointment of a new commissioner for the tenant farming sector in England , which I hope that the hon . Gentleman will welcome . do he agree that the last Government be operate much more in the interest of large landowner than of tenant farmer ? the hon . Lady make a good reference to the outcome of the Rock review , which take place under the last government , although they take too long to put those thing into practice . I be pleased that this Government have say that they will implement the recommendation of the Rock review . Baroness Rock deserve enormous thank and praise from all of we for her work defend tenant farmer , and the fact that she have not be replace be very regrettable . we be talk today about farming and the consequence of the inheritance tax issue . it would have make so much more sense , give the impact on tenant , if the commissioner and their framework have be put in place before this policy be bring into practice . this feel like put it the wrong way around . rise — I be go to crack on now and not take any more intervention because , with help from member on either side , I have already take up nine minute of this place ' s time . I want to give the House a final run - through of some of the consequence of the terrible failure of the Conservative Government on farming . in the last five year alone , livestock farm income have drop by 41 % . year on year , there have be a drop in sheep number of over 4 % , and a 6 % annual drop in the number of dairy farm . we lose 440 dairy farm last year alone . so that be where we be , and that be before we get into trade deal or the attack on rural service , healthcare and dentistry . I be also go to quickly make a reference to Brexit because , without a doubt , our leave the European Union and the terrible deal that the Conservative Government sign we up to have have the big impact of all on agriculture . Madam Deputy Speaker , you would think that the new Labour Government have a massive open goal in front of they , give what they inherit from the Conservatives . they have a massive open goal , with no goalkeeper between the post , but somehow the ball end up in row z . I find it almost impossible to countenance how they have manage to fluff that opportunity . I want to talk about two people in my constituency who give I a really useful insight into the family farm tax in the last couple of day . both of they give I four separate case study . the first be a land adviser who talk to I about four farm . their story be about shrink business as a result of the family farm tax , and about the potential reduction in the value of land , which would mean that they would not be able to invest in their business and there would not be the tax yield that the Government be bank on . another , a local accountant , give I four anonymise case study of local family farm in my community . of those family farm , only one be earn above the minimum wage , and three be earn significantly below the minimum wage . in those four case , two would have to sell part of their farm and two would have to sell their entire farm to pay the inheritance tax . the next question be : who would those farm be sell to ? the hon . member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) speak a moment or two ago about the proportion of farmland be sell into private hand , into private equity and so on . farm will go into those hand even more — as if a neighbouring farmer be go to buy that land when they be in the same predicament . we be see hard - work farmer , on less than the minimum wage , have to sell off their land to private equity . be that a very labour thing to do ? the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) speak about Labour not get the work class in the countryside , and this be a perfect example . it be not too late for Labour to learn . it seem clear that , as with the winter fuel allowance change , the Government have miss their target here . as my hon . friend rightly say , it seem obvious that large landowner will have the way and mean to avoid this tax . do he agree that there should be some form of work farm test ? yes , and the Government should have be think about these thing . we hear from the Minister that lot of planning and diligence go into this before it come out of the Chancellor ' s mouth on Budget day , but it do not feel like it , because there be a whole range of issue that could have be consider in advance . there be something that will do more immediate harm to farming than even the inheritance tax change , and that be the Government ' s decision to summarily reduce basic payment by 76 % in a single year . this will have a direct impact , in particular , on tenant farmer who rely on that money and will end up miss their rent payment . we will see eviction as a consequence . the Government have trumpet the £ 5 billion over two year , which my basic math tell I be £ 2 . 5 billion a year . I be always careful , or nervous , about make confident prediction , particularly in this place , but my confident prediction be that they will not spend that budget . if the basic payment be cut by 76 % without the new scheme be up and run to replace they , the Government will not spend that money . by underspend , this Government will end up in the same mess as the last one . I have huge respect for the hon . Gentleman , my constituency neighbour , but I have a question . I think the hon . member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) suggest a work farm tax , and it be not clear to I whether the hon . Gentleman accept or reject that suggestion . we have hear Liberal Democrats talk in recent week about land taxis and wealth taxis as alternative to raise the revenue to fund their many , many spending commitment . could the hon . Gentleman clarify that point ? to clarify my response to my hon . friend the Member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) , the Government could have look at a work farm exemption so that these people will never have to pay this inheritance tax . who know , the Government might consider put people who be not active farmer under the HMRC microscope instead . that would be far preferable to what we have . Grant payment be a significant issue . with the cut to basic payment and the Government ' s failure to be as quick as they should have be on the new payment , I be pretty confident that we will see an underspend from this government , just as we do from the last one . in recent day we have see the Government ' s decision to pause capital grant payment , which will be a huge blow to our farmer . the area that will end up be cut or pause include : hedge , wall and fencing ; countryside stewardship grant to allow nature - friendly farming ; work to prevent pollution of waterway ; slurry storage ; cover yard to clean up our river ; peatland restoration ; carbon storage ; and be the cornerstone of natural flood management . my constituent Matthew , who farm in Eden valley , explain yesterday that he have just finish instal 10 , 000 metre of fencing for a nature - friendly farming project . the pause in the grant funding mean that he will not be able to buy any hedge plant to finish the work , and nor will he get the mid - tier countryside stewardship annual payment . he say : " some say it could be pause until June … this be a business - break issue . " on top of that , the high - level payment have not increase since I enter this House in 2005 . it be £ 40 per hectare for moorland restoration in 2005 , and it be £ 40 per hectare today . that be a brutal attack on hill farmer and those who farm our common land . again , some of the sustainable farming incentive option on common land be good , and they should be applaud because do more for nature be a good thing , but the SFI moorland option be currently close to all common land because of technical issue online . we can see those consequence very clearly . among all this , farmer be struggle , often with their mental health . the isolation that people feel when their family have farm a valley for generation and they might be the one who end up lose the family farm be utterly devastating . however , farmer just crack on with the job , so our job be to be their voice . farming be a glorious vocation . farmer work to protect our town and village from flooding , to promote biodiversity , to back the tourism economy , to tackle climate change , to underpin landscape heritage and to produce our food . the fundamental failure of both the last government and this one be that they have bring together agricultural policy that actively disincentivise the production of food . that be criminal , and it be foolish . the first thing the liberal Democrats would put right be a food strategy and an additional £ 1 billion a year for elm to back our family farmer . it be time we listen to farmer such as Liz and Matthew Staley from near Kirkby Stephen , and their son Luke and Lewis . I regularly talk to Liz , and she say : " there be so much anguish out there for farmer . " on the new scheme , she say : " they aren ' t work and there isn ' t that crossover just yet … they ' re just make it hard to make a living . " I want to encourage people on all side , especially in government , to listen to Liz . it be the vocation of farmer to save our planet and to feed our country . the least we can do be give they the value and the future they deserve . rise — this debate be already oversubscribed . to point out a simple fact , if you be not here for the shadow Minister ' s open speech , you will not be call . that be basic etiquette . I represent Ribble Valley in Lancashire , one of the most beautiful constituency in the country and one of the most rural . there be 820 farm on my patch , include 121 dairy farm . I single out dairy farmer as probably the most passionate and dedicated farmer I have encounter . the problem with this motion be that it ignore the wide context of what be happen in our rural economy , and I will briefly talk about how remarkable those rural community be . not only be our farmer vital to our food security , but they often do the intangible work that we do not see on a local authority balance sheet , include grit and clear small road that council can not get to in winter , and maintain all those beautiful countryside walking route that we all enjoy for much - need rest . there be endless example of how farmer be the good example of the community spirit that we be rightly so proud of in this country . I will share a quick story about a farm company in my constituency call Butlers farmhouse cheese . butler produce the famous Blacksticks blue cheese and , I believe , be the second large producer of cheese in the UK . last year it suffer a devastating fire that completely destroy its packing and logistic hub . remarkably , the company rebuild a whole building in a few week by use all of its supplier network , and that be base on the faith and goodwill that farm community engender . butler be able to retain the 95 staff it have , as well as support job in 20 to 30 local supplier . these be the kind of farm we be support , and we must ensure that our strategy work for they in the long term . butler be a fourth - generation farm that would not be back on its foot today without the relationship and trust that be so embed in our rural community . I be excited for what Westminster can do , and be do , for farmer . we can provide clarity on the mission . one of the good thing about this new Labour Government be our focus on overall mission for this country , to be able to be clear to farmer and farming community about exactly what this Labour Government plan to achieve over this decade of national renewal , with a clear ask for farmer on how they can contribute to that mission and how they can benefit . I hear about the need for such clarity time and again while campaign . for year , farmer lack clarity under the conservative party , and they desperately need it . I fully recognise how much the hon . Lady want to serve her new constituent , and I hope she be right . do she recognise how difficult it will be for farmer in her constituency , as it will be in mine , to pay the inheritance tax ? land value be very high and the abstract capital value can be in the ten of thousand , but the income that an acre of land generate can be in the hundred , so there be an enormous disjunct between the value of the land in the abstract , as far as his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs be organise , and the actual money that the farm will generate . how do she think that farmer in her constituency be go to pay the inheritance tax ? I will come on to opportunity to increase the prosperity of farmer , which should be our mission . the second opportunity for farmer be around procurement and trade , and use the Government ' s own purchasing power to back british produce , so that 50 % of food bring into hospital , Army basis and prison be locally produce . we can protect farmer from be undercut by low welfare and low standard in trade deal , and we be seek a new veterinary agreement with the EU to get our export move . I want to touch on devolution and its ability to empower local understanding . anyone who live in a rural community know that part of its strength be a deep generational knowledge of the land and local area . nowhere be that more evident than in generational farming . indeed , it be that knowledge , pass down through generation and train into child from the time they can walk , that ensure some of the efficiency that keep our farm go . I be a huge advocate for devolution , especially for area such as Lancashire , where Ribble Valley be locate , that include vast rural area , because it bring democracy and understanding close to community . that be a huge issue that the Government be progress at pace in order to do right by rural community . I be grateful to all the farmer who have be have open conversation with I about how past and future policy have and could affect they . any new Government will take some time to unpick how relationship have work in the past , and how they might want to change they . I come to Westminster as someone who be passionate about local leadership and devolution , and there be much that this government can do to help farmer by take decision . the hon . Lady be make an eloquent speech about farming and the importance of farmer to our community ; they undertake role such as grit the road and cut our hedge , as well as feed the nation we live in . she talk about devolution . do she agree that the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs of Northern Ireland have say that one third of farmer will be impact by the agricultural property tax , with 75 % of our dairy farmer be the hard hit ? the policy be not work . stop the family farm tax grab . if the hon . Lady will allow I , I will come to how we can help the farmer who will be affect by the measure . to finish my point about devolution , as an MP in an area with huge extent of rural economy , it be critical to I that devolution reflect our rural area as much as our metropolitan one . I look forward to see how the upcoming devolution White Paper address that challenge . town and parish council really understand our rural community and can play a big role in local democracy . the hon . Lady be make an interesting speech , and I be grateful for it . she be right that we should import less food and use government procurement to help with that , and she be right about the inter - generational quality of family farm . will she acknowledge that , in deliver the kind of food security that her speech imply , we can not have the most productive farmland eat up by large - scale solar development and housing ? we need to protect our grade 1 , 2 and 3 land for the very reason she give , because that allow we to deliver the food security that she and I both want . as the Minister point out , many farm will not be affect by the measure and it will not have the impact that Opposition member be lead people to believe . we have an opportunity to support our farmer , as I touch on in my response to the hon . member for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) . I have sit down with farmer in my community and work through the issue . they have take their own tax advice . for example , there be a farm in my constituency that be worth around £ 3 . 6 million , so it will be liable for around £ 12 , 000 a year in inheritance tax over 10 year . however , if we be able to increase that farmer ' s profit by £ 20 , 000 a year , by reduce energy price , increase british - supply procurement so that 50 % of public sector food come from those farm , and provide a well health service that ensure all member of the family can be strong and well to work , that be the opportunity . yes , we need to make our tax structure work well — that be fix the foundation — but the real aim and prize be increase the opportunity for farmer , so that they have the stability , investment and real sense of purpose and mission that allow they not just to survive , but to thrive . on that point , will the hon . Lady give way ? I be sorry , but I will not . I speak early about the strength and efficiency in family farming . from everything that I have see and hear from farmer so far , it be clear that while value embed way of work and learning be important , there be also much appetite for innovation and do thing well . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not , as I want to make progress . just look at how farmer have lead the way in restore biodiversity and be diversify into all sort of new business venture . the industry be not scared of change or opportunity , but much of it rely on and be drive by what Government determine be important through subsidy and trade agreement . after 14 year of uncertainty about what Government want from farmer , we must and will do well . our farm be the lifeblood of this country , along with nurse , teacher , and , yes , train driver . I know that farmer in my constituency of Ribble Valley be ready to do their bit to tackle the dire situation in which we find this country . I do not know a group more ready to pull up their sleeve and muck in than that lot . we , as a Government , be meet that energy and have a similar level of ambition , vision and commitment . we be look at how these pillar of our community can work with we to achieve what we all strive for : great prosperity for every person in this country . on that point , will the hon . Lady give way ? I be sorry , but I will not . the motion table by the Conservatives today be not clear or specific on what they would do differently to fix the economy . that , along with the continual lack of clarity and consistency on rural and farming policy when they be in power , suggest that they never have a vision of how they would support these community well . it be easy to criticise ; it be far hard to come up with a long - term vision and do the hard graft to make it a reality . I will be vote with the Government today , but not because we do not need to push for more understanding of rural community in Westminster . generally in the UK , we need a well understanding of the role that farm and rural community play in our culture and potential prosperity , across all party and among those who work for we . I be vote with the Government today because we can well push for that change with a Labour Government , as part of a wide plan to improve thing for everyone — a plan that be truly ambitious for this country and make the brave call to take the hard , unpopular decision now , so that in 10 year something have actually get well for everyone . I would far rather have that than a Government who go for popular headline today , but to find that in 10 year ' time we be still face the same challenge that we always do , and that they be get bad . I have a lot of faith that tomorrow , and over coming month , this Labour Government will set out an exceptionally clear and visionary plan for what our rural economy mean to Britain . we will respect they and make the most of they by provide long - term stability and a clear route for farmer to contribute to our national mission , and to benefit from they . anyone who have wait 14 year for a Labour Government to come in and start to tackle the fact that a quarter of our child be live in poverty know that get the result they want take time and hard work . we have be in desperate need of grown - up to tackle what be come down the line . I trust this Labour Government to do that and I will work hard with they to get it right . finally , I pay tribute to all the incredible farmer across Ribble Valley for continue the conversation with I , so that we can build the strong possible vision for farming and the rural economy in the UK . I declare my interest as a work farmer and a charter surveyor . when I drive through my constituency , I be always remind that farmer be the most underrated and essential worker in the rural Cotswolds and many other rural area . many have work the land for generation , and I think in particular of my constituent , Nigel — I will avoid his surname to avoid press intrusion — who be still farm at the age of 93 . this Government forget that farming be not a hobby . it be farmer who wake up at the crack of dawn to ensure that the rest of the population have food on their table , who clear the road when tree fall on they or they be block by snow , and who plant tree and wild flower to ensure that our biodiversity be protect for future generation . the hard - work farming community be deal a massive blow by this Labour Government ' s Budget in October . as my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) on the Front Bench say , this be about not only the IHT change , but the national insurance contribution , the change in minimum wage , the tax on fertiliser and an up to 211 % tax hike for double cab pick - up . all those extra cost take money out of a business . I know that the Chancellor and the Prime Minister have both state from the Dispatch Box that the IHT change will not affect the vast majority of farm , and the Treasury have forecast that only 27 % of all farm will be affect . however , as the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs know , DEFRA ' s own forecast suggest that two third of farm will be affect by this destructive policy , and the National Farmers Union have recently publish an analysis of the 27 % figure , which find that it " materially underestimate the true proportion " , with around 75 % of commercial farm to be affect . that be due to the Treasury use figure that be base on the 2021 - 22 agricultural property relief datum , which be not representative of the current situation . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? we have already have an exchange in intervention , so I ask the hon . gentleman to first let I say this about land price . I disagree with the point about land price be inflate . we can not buck the market . it be not the policy that inflate land price ; it be people come in from outside agriculture who be put up the price . the NFU say that farm may be affect by the policy — that be the language that it use — take no account of estate planning or any other mitigation that people might use . as the Secretary of State say , people take action in the event of change . the NFU have ignore that in quote its statistic . if the hon . Gentleman will just listen to my speech and the example that I be about to give with an open mind , he might change his mind . the Treasury do not include in its figure the impact of business property relief claim ; that also fit under the same £ 1 million ceiling . accord to the NFU , 40 % of farmer also claim BPR on machinery and livestock , which make the £ 1 million ceiling even more restrictive . as show in an early exchange , the Government have fail to complete a proper impact assessment of the change to APR and BPR on the rural economy . the hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) might be interested to hear that the CLA modelling have show that the change will lead to 5 % of rural business close , with up to 190 , 000 job lose from the rural economy , some in very remote area , and it will be difficult to replace they . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I do not want to give way to too many people , but I will to the hon . Gentleman . the hon . gentleman mention 5 % of agricultural business be at risk . be it not true that under the last government , between 2019 and 2024 , there be an 8 % reduction in agricultural business in his constituency of North Cotswolds , thank to the policy of his party when they be in government ? that be over a much long period , but these change will take effect much quick . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that once the tax start to bite , those job will be lose quite quickly . to put that into perspective , the OBR have predict that only £ 590 million a year be due to be raise from this destructive policy . this Budget give the Department for Work and Pensions a whopping £ 275 . 8 billion a year . the revenue raise from this tax would be a mere 0 . 2 % of that total amount . over the past few week , I have have countless email from worried farmer about their future , and I be lucky enough to meet some of they when they come up to London to protest recently . they vary in age from their late 20 to their early 90 , and it be a valuable meeting . many have never protest in their life , but they have choose to use their voice now when their livelihood be under threat . again , to avoid press intrusion , I want to cite the case of David and his young son , whose farm in the North Cotswolds have 265 acre , a suckler herd of 200 and a small flock of pedigree poll Dorset sheep . they have a range of modern and traditional building and have already diversify those . when they include their house , they estimate that their business be worth £ 5 . 5 million . David would be entitle to about £ 1 . 5 million in relief , and after the 50 % relief from inheritance tax , with an effective rate that the Exchequer Secretary go through , that would leave he with a taxable amount of £ 800 , 000 on his death . the Minister might like to listen to this : that farmer only earn in total , on average , about £ 40 , 000 a year . how on earth be he expect to pay the tax and live on that £ 40 , 000 ? he will not . the farmer will have to sell up and the farm will not be available to future generation . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? it be the last time . would the Tories not have a lot more credibility on this issue if they own up to the disaster that be Brexit ? it open we up to cheap import , increase cost for farmer and put up barrier and obstacle to trading . would they not have much more credibility in attack the Government on this if they admit that that be an absolute disaster for farming community ? if the hon . Gentleman want to call an Adjournment debate on Brexit , he be entitle to do so . I be talk about the serious issue of how this farmer and many other up and down the country will be able to afford the tax — they will not . I understand that the Government have suggest that farmer should be forward - plan and gift their farm to their child now , which would mean that they could avoid the tax in future . however , for many farmer , that be not an option . I will take another constituent of mine , who farm near Fosse Way . he be still work on his farm at 93 . he do not retire at 65 like many of we , but have keep work the long , hard day , as he do during the second world war , to ensure that we have enough food on our table . he have spend year plan to ensure that his grandchild could inherit and take over the farming business . instead , under this Government , his plan have go completely out of the window , because he will have to live until he be 101 if he be to avoid the tax altogether . the only option face many farmer across the country be to sell off their land and stop farm . those farmer have work the land for generation . their child will have see their parent take over and will have expect to take over when they can , but now face a future of uncertainty . the Government fail to answer the question of what kind of person will buy the land when it go on the market . it will not be the one who have farm the land all their life . it will likely be foreign investor and hedge fund manager . they will not have generation of knowledge of how to work the land and will likely take prime arable land out of production , as they could possibly make more money from alternative . when I work on the previous Public Accounts Committee — I urge the Minister to listen and to pledge that he will do this — I manage to obtain a commitment from the last government that the food security index would be publish in Parliament every year . will the Minister give that pledge so we can continue do that ? that way we can see what effect the tax , the selling off of farm and take land out of production be have and whether our food production be drop . I end with a plea to the Government to go back to the drawing board . I understand that a technical tax consultation on the change be due to be publish early in 2025 . I urge the Government to use this time to talk to farmer and professional across the country and find a way that will ensure that farmer such as Nigel do not lose their life ' s work to the taxman . some obvious alleviation and change to APR and BPR would be to raise the threshold , so that more small farm owner and rental farmer would be exempt , and to have a long transition period . that will help farmer like 93 - year - old Nigel . however , the good outcome would be to reverse the policy altogether . farming be under threat . I do not want to see the fabric of our countryside destroy for future generation . rise — at some point , speak limit will be introduce , so please think about edit your speech . before then , I call Andrew Pakes . that be quick than I expect , Madam Deputy Speaker , so thank you . it be a privilege to speak in the debate . nothing go to the heart of the health , wellbeing and prosperity of a nation more than be able to feed and look after ourselves . Britain ' s farmer and our farming workforce be part of the essential infrastructure that keep this country go . I be proud to represent a constituency with such a rich food and farming heritage . farming be in our dna . I pay tribute to our farmer and farming workforce . when we talk about any other industry , we recognise the skilled worker that deliver for Britain : the steelworker , the miner , the nurse and the doctor . we should start every debate on food and farm with the same recognition for farmer . food security begin with the incredible work of our farmer , and I thank they . we talk about people go the extra mile to look out for each other and care for our community ; farmer do that every day . this should therefore be a welcome debate on the future of farming . it should mention farming profitability and allow the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) to talk about agri - technology and how we increase profitability . I hope that he do so shortly . instead , what do we get ? it be political opportunism from a party that should know well . I be proud to be part of the large contingent of rural Labour mps in Britain ' s history . Labour Members be elect to protect and support our rural community , and we will do just that . after 14 year , it be a bit rich of Conservative Members now to claim that they be back Britain ' s farmer . I entirely endorse what the hon . Gentleman , my constituency neighbour , say about recognise and celebrate the work of farmer , and indeed farm worker , but do he understand — I be sure that most conservative Members understand this well — that asset and income be entirely different thing ? farmer ' asset be our landscape . their wealth be our common wealth — something that the Government have seemingly fail to appreciate by impose a tax on farmer that confuse their ability to make a living with the asset that be essential for they to feed the nation . I thank the right hon . member for be a champion in this House of skill and trade union , which be sadly too rarely champion by Conservative Members . I recognise his point on our common wealth and the work that go into look after and protect our land , but I also recognise the impact of the last government on land and our farming community . let we look at the Conservatives ' record : 14 year of run down the DEFRA budget ; a decade of austerity , which become a decade of insecurity ; a Brexit turkey half - cooked ; flood funding cut ; trade deal that sell out british farmer ; a farming budget £ 300 million underspent . if Conservative member want to discuss food security and the future of our rural community , bring it on . the conservative party see more than 12 , 000 farmer and agribusiness force out of business since 2010 . Farming have the low profitability of any sector in the economy . conservative abolish the Agricultural Wages Board and see rural wage stagnate , as do many Liberal Democrat colleague , who vote in the same Lobby . now the Conservatives be defend the status quo when it come to big business , big landowner and rise land price . at the start of this debate , I think that they be literally the last people on earth defend the status quo , but some of they seem to be talk about accept some kind of policy , while those on the Front Bench seem to be say that there should be no change whatsoever , so the merry - go - round continue . the Opposition want all the spending but none of the responsibility . we talk about change . we know the change that this country vote for in our rural and farm community . People vote for change because public service be break , with rural school crumble , NHS waiting list soar , and rural GPs and NHS dentist hard to find . the Government be rightly focus on the cost of live crisis and improve access to GPs in our rural community . what be the opposition focus on ? they be defend a tax break for estate worth up to £ 3 million while attack a pay rise for the low pay worker in our rural community . that say everything that we need to know about today ' s Tory party . as a fellow Cambridgeshire MP , will the hon . member give we some example of farm in his constituency that support the measure ? I certainly recognise from door - knock in rural community and talk to rural worker that food poverty have go up in my constituency . People have find it hard to get a bus to go and work on a farm , and people work on farm be struggle with the result of Liz Truss ' s mini - Budget , which crash our economy . the reality of the debate that we should be have be that profitability for british farmer go back a generation , not to 4 July . that be why the Government be pledge to put £ 5 billion into the farming budget and be commit to work with farmer and the sector to get that money into productive food production . it be why we will use the heft of public procurement to buy british farming produce . food security go to the heart of the challenge face our country . fix our public service go to the heart of rebuild our rural community . if the House want to do both , it will start by reject the Opposition motion . rise — after the next contribution I will impose a time limit of five minute on speech . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . I remind the House of my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) , who be a fellow member of the Select Committee , and the hon . member for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) . they both , in their own way , make an important contribution to the debate by give a bit more context to it . I will vote for the motion in the name of the Leader of the Opposition , not because it be the most elegant piece of draft that I have see in 23 year in the House , but because there be nothing in it with which I really disagree . it do feel , though , like a bit of a miss opportunity to move the debate onwards . I say that not as any real criticism , because it be a response to a Government measure in the Budget , which be also a bit of a miss opportunity . it be worth take a minute or two to pause and reflect on how thing might have be do differently . we could have go through the process that multiple government and Departments have go through over the year by start with a Green Paper or a White Paper , and look at the way in which inheritance tax have work , and some of the unintended consequence that it have generate . we have all hear of the super - rich buy up land and inflate the price as some sort of tax avoidance measure . I have not meet a single work farmer who want to defend that , so there be a real opportunity to do thing differently . we could have build a consensus about the proper value of land , and about some stuff that be not really be speak about in this debate . I speak as a former solicitor . thankfully , I never do any executory practice , but some of those who be still in practice and with whom I be in contact tell I candidly that , because there be 100 % relief on agricultural land , they do not really give a great deal of thought to the valuation that go into the application for confirmation . that be bind to have have an impact on the figure on which the Government rely . have we do thing in a proper and reflective way , we would have be able to build consensus on value and threshold , for example , and do thing very differently . I welcome the contribution of my former ministerial colleague . have the tax be levy on exactly the people he describe — the super - rich , and non - work farmer — few would have complain , but it have be set at the wrong level . that be why I ask for detailed modelling to be make available to the House . I think I just say more or less exactly that . a debate of the sort that I be talk about would have allow for a wide debate about farming finance . we have have 70 year of very direct Government intervention in the agricultural economy through farm subsidy . take a step back , critical though those farm subsidy be , their net effect have ultimately be to keep farmer poor . there be now such an enormous mismatch between the capital value of the asset be farm and the derisory return on they . DEFRA tell we that there be a 0 . 5 % return on capital . farmer in my constituency tell I that a £ 3 million farm will give they an income of about £ 25 , 000 a year . that be pretty much in line with defra ' s figure . we hear about farmer work into their 80 . it be a slightly patronising and very romantic view of doughty farmer work on into their 80 because they be seize with a sense of vocation . there absolutely be a sense of vocation among farmer , but let we not forget that a lot of they work into their 70 and 80 because they have be run business that have have no spare money to put into a pension so that they can look after themselves in their old age . the right hon . Gentleman make an important point about just how little farmer earn , and yet they be consistently be describe by Labour Members as asset - rich . should farmer not fall into their definition of work people , and therefore Labour should be on their side rather than what they be do to they ? " work people " hardly do justice to farmer . some of my young constituent tell I they be work for return of about £ 6 an hour . there be a reason I choose not to become a farmer at 16 and why I think law be a more attractive career opportunity to pursue , but I bow to no one in my admiration for those who make that choice . of course , there be the question of those who have make their estate planning decision on the basis of apr be available . other have point to that , but it be absolutely critical , and it go beyond estate planning . I wonder how many farmer over the year decide in a divorce settlement to take the farm as their part of the capital , because they have a familial and emotional connection to the land , and be now find that what look like an equitable settlement a few year ago risk be much more inequitable . the particular opportunity I fear we have miss be that in relation to tenant farmer . the Tenant Farmers Association come up with an excellent proposal , which would reward landlord who grant lease in excess of 10 year with exemption from inheritance tax liability . that would be good for the very people who everybody on both side of the House say they want to help : the small family farmer . there be multiple reason why people might buy up agricultural land . I do not know anybody who take an agricultural tenancy thinking that it will make they a member of the super - rich as a result . the idea that be be moot of a clawback — something on which we could see a bit of a sensible discussion and a consensus between the front Benches — or the idea of a suspend inheritance tax liability which would crystallise only at the point of the land sale after the death of the owner , would both work to keep land in active food production . the irony of the way in which the Government have structure the measure be that , by allow a 50 % relief on farmland above £ 1 million , the purchase of agricultural land will probably remain an attractive proposition for the super - rich . we have reach a point in the debate where we need to broaden it out beyond just inheritance tax , and look at the wide question of farming finance and ask ourselves how we can build a consensus that put farming and food production at the heart of the countryside , where it truly belong . now , with a speak limit of five minute , I call Matt Bishop . my constituency be a very rural one with 751 farm . it be an extremely important issue to my constituent and I . I hear their concern and deeply empathise with their worry and fear . while it be a difficult decision for the Government to introduce an inheritance tax , it be one that be unfortunately necessary . I welcome the opportunity from the opposition to debate the matter , largely because it allow we the time to discuss the reason why inheritance tax have to be introduce . there be a crucial need to understand the unique challenge face by rural community and the immense value they add to society . farmer across the country , and most definitely in my constituency , be not just farmer ; they help in a number of different situation , include recently with the flood in the Forest of Dean . they be vital to all of we in the community . however , the economic turmoil of the past 14 year have leave the Government with the difficult task of balance the need of the british people with the economic reality of run the country . the failure of the previous Government to secure a Brexit deal that protect the interest of farmer leave many in a vulnerable position , struggle with increase cost , trade barrier and uncertainty . this government ' s new deal for farm aim to safeguard farmer ’ interest , and we will do all we can to support they . we be use the Government ' s purchase power to ensure that 50 % of food consume in hospital , army basis and prison be from british farmer , put more money in their pocket . we be introduce grid reform , allow farmer to plug their renewable energy into the national grid . we be also seek a new veterinary agreement with the EU to ensure that our friend on the continent can enjoy the incredible produce that Britain have to offer . this government be actively work to improve the life of farmer in a way that will benefit the agricultural sector and the broad economy . will the hon . member accept that the change to inheritance tax damage the economic reality in the UK because farmer will be disincentivise from invest in their land and increase its productivity ? although I empathise with the hon . member ' s comment , that be not exactly what I hear from the farmer in my constituency , which I will get on to shortly . the impact of Brexit , include trade barrier , labour shortage and disruption in supply chain , have undeniably place significant pressure on our farmer . it be somewhat ironic that the opposition choose to complain about this Government ' s action when it be their failure that create this mess . the NFU even criticise defra as recently as September for significant underspending amount to £ 358 million over the past three year . my constituent and , more importantly today , farmer in the Forest of Dean have feel the impact of the challenge first hand . small business and family be all face tough time , and the opposition must acknowledge the broad context . the new initiative that the Government be introduce , from the support for british farmer to green energy reform , be vital step forward , and I do not underestimate the difficulty that lie ahead for all of we . there be no quick fix for the challenge we face , and I fully recognise the pain and frustration feel by those who be struggle , especially in rural area such as mine . but the Government ' s focus be on long - term growth , sustainability and provide the tool that our farmer need to thrive . it be inaccurate to say , as have be raise , that no farmer agree with this policy ; some farmer agree with it . they want well service , and they be happy to accept that reform need to take place . some might be surprised to hear that I agree with the Leader of the Opposition ' s recent comment to the medium remind we of the profound impact of the rise cost of live on individual across the UK and farmer . she be correct that the impact be feel deeply and intensely by all in the country , include my constituent and farmer in the Forest of Dean , but let we not forget one important factor : it be under the previous Conservative Government that the cost of living crisis begin for farmer . it be under this government that it will end . the Government have make many claim about this policy that be not credible , but I wish to address only four . first , they outrageously claim that they would not do it . the Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Streatham and Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , say last year : " we have no intention of change APR . " he say that give the situation that farmer be in , a government can not possibly go to people and demand more taxis . I be sorry he be not here today to hear his own word . secondly , the Government claim the change be unavoidable as they desperately need the £ 500 million they claim that it will raise . the £ 500 million that they give to farm overseas and the £ 9 billion that they be all too happy to hand over to public sector union say otherwise . thirdly , the Government claim that these people be rich . that completely misunderstand agriculture and the countryside . a farm be not an asset on a balance sheet . our farmer be steward of their land , hold it for the next generation and the generation after that . it be not the fault of farmer — especially those in place such as my constituency in Kent , with its astronomical house price — that their land be so valuable in a way that do not at all reflect their farm ' s profitability . be the hon . member , like I , slightly irate when she hear UK Government Ministers talk about how the term of the propose agricultural property relief be much more favourable than the rate that other people have to pay ? inherit the family farm be not like inherit your mother ' s house . you do not liquidate the asset and then live the high life ; you just get on with the job that you be do the day before and the day before that . there be no enrichment involve , make the Government ' s policy utterly baseless . I could not agree more with the hon . Gentleman . my farmer tell I that these inheritance tax bill will take decade of profit to pay off , so they will keep do the job that they be do yesterday , but with a fraction of the cash that they have before — which be not a lot to begin with . finally , I want to address the idea that farmer can simply give farm away and live another seven year . it be incredible that the Government should introduce a tax in one breath and encourage people to avoid it in the next , and it make a mockery of the whole policy . if it be true , then the tax will not raise any money for the Government , but instead increase bureaucracy and advisory fee for farmer . mostly , though , for many people , it be not an option or it will not work . People have not be give enough time to plan for these change . my constituent Ross grow hop in Tenterden . as he watch the Budget , his father , who be in his 70 , be suffer from sepsis and fight for his life in hospital . especially in farming , our most dangerous industry , people can not guarantee that they will live another seven year after have hand over the farm . another of my constituent be in remission , have recently recover from cancer . if the cancer return , it be likely to be terminal . this constituent be in their early 50 . be the Government seriously suggest that my constituent should hand over , not just the farm , but the home that they live in to their teenage child ? many of my farmer live in their farmhouse and be plan to work the rest of their day . they do not have pension ; they do not have plan that would allow they to spend the last decade of their life — of course , it may be much more — no long farm the land that they have farm for the whole of their life up until this point . finally , to raise a point that seem to have be almost entirely ignore , do this will incur eye - water capital gain tax bill . for some of my farmer , it will mean hundred of year ' worth of land revaluation that they similarly can not afford to pay . be the hon . Lady aware that the capital gain tax start from the moment of a person decease , not from when they buy that land ? what I have be tell by my farmer , base on the tax advice that they have be give , be that the bill — and not just the inheritance tax on decade of profit — will be completely unaffordable . farming be hard . it be not like any other industry : it be a culture and a way of life . it be lonely , revenue be uncertain , profit be tiny and cash be tight . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not , as I be come to the end of my speech . it be absurd and shameful that this government , look to fund their union pay rise and vanity energy project , be put this pressure on those who do the back - break work of grow our food . farmer already have appal problem with mental health and suicide : the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution tell we that a third of farmer may be depressed and half may be suffer from anxiety . one of my farmer say that his father be now keep up at night by the thought that he will leave his child a crippling debt that will make their life financially impossible . another tell I that his father say that he just hope that he die before the change come in . this policy be illogical , inconsistent , dishonest and wrong . to misquote Brian Clough , I would not say that my constituency be the most beautiful in the country , but it be certainly in the top one . we have generation of farmer to thank for that beauty — those who protect the land and nurture nature long before the Peak District be designate Britain ' s first national park . if I think for one second that these change to agricultural property relief threaten future generation of farmer in my constituency , I would not vote for they , but I do not . last month , I spend a very enjoyable afternoon score the senior young farmer at Radnor young farmer club . these be really admirable young people who spend their afternoon and evening look after youngster , often those as young as 10 , and try to encourage they into farming . be the hon . Gentleman not concerned about the message that this change send to our young farmer ? no . the message from this Government be that we be commit to farming , and to make it profitable and sustainable . that have to be the message that we send out to those young farmer . there be no doubt that farmer in my constituency have be struggle terribly for the past 14 year , work seven day a week , 12 hour a day , for very little reward . the last Government promise they the earth , but leave they in the sheep dip . after all the Brexit promise , what they get be the Leader of the opposition sell they out in trade deal with New Zealand and Australia . Boris Johnson promise farmer that subsidy would stay at 100 % , but then the Government phase out the basic farm payment . the Opposition ' s incompetence see farmer miss out on £ 358 million that could have be in their back pocket when they desperately need it , and then come Liz Truss . her mini - Budget and all those unfunded tax cut — a point that I will return to — crash the economy , cause interest rate to rise and drive many farmer to the brink . over 12 , 000 farmer and agricultural business be lose under the last government , so we will not take any lecture from the Opposition about the farming industry . the hon . Gentleman have 428 farm in his constituency . how many of those farmer will thank he for support the Government today ? I live in one of the rural village and speak to the farmer in my village all the time . the fact be that those farmer vote for I because they be so let down by the last Government . rise — I will not take any more intervention at the moment . before the Budget , I sit down with farmer in my constituency . they want to talk about two thing . first , they be concern about the effect of the change to APR on family farm . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will not . secondly , they be concern about cut to the farming budget . the Chancellor deliver £ 5 billion for the farming budget , the large ever investment in sustainable food production and nature recovery , and she deliver in term of protect family farm in my constituency . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will not give way at this stage . let we be clear : only 4 % of estate in this country pay inheritance tax . as we have repeatedly hear , these change will mean that a couple will be able to leave £ 3 million - worth of estate to their child without pay a penny in inheritance tax . to put that in context , if a couple own a £ 3 million mansion , they would be pay £ 940 , 000 in inheritance tax . rise — I will not give way at this stage . those estate over the threshold will have a 50 % reduction in the amount they pay . we have already hear that the seven - year rule will continue to apply , so farming family will be able to make plan for the future . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? sorry , I will not give way at this stage . this debate have , however , shine an important light on one issue , which I be grateful to the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for raise : the fact that our farmer be work day in , day out , for very little profit . the question be how we support they to be profitable again . energy bill be one of the big cost farm business face . this government will help bring down those cost through GB Energy and by introduce grid reform to allow farmer to plug renewable into the national grid . we must protect they from be undercut by foreign import . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be sorry , but I will not . we must create a great marketplace for farming business by use the Government ' s purchase power to ensure that 50 % of the food buy for our hospital , prison and army basis be produce by local farmer . here be the most important point : we have to provide farming business with economic stability . the Leader of the Opposition have already fail to learn the lesson of the Liz Truss Budget , with £ 6 . 7 billion of unfunded tax cut already announce in a matter of week . the Opposition need to tell we how they be go to pay for that . what be they go to cut ? be they go to cut the farming budget — be we go to lose the £ 5 billion from the farming budget ? — or be they go to borrow and put we right back in the position we be in with Liz Truss , with interest rate rise and farm go out of business ? I will not be vote for the Opposition motion ; I will be support farmer in my constituency and provide the economic stability they need . I share the frustration of my right hon . friend shadow Secretary of State that the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs can not be with we today . I want to offer he some sympathy , because I do not believe that either he or the farming Minister cook up this terrible plan . it be thrust on they by the Treasury because , as have be say before , the Treasury know the price of everything and the value of nothing . it clearly do not know the value of a family farm or the value of our farmer to this country . the purpose of this policy , as be outline by the Chancellor in her Budget statement , be to stop wealthy individual avoid inheritance tax , but to protect family farm . as my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) say , the CLA have highlight that the average 300 - acre arable farm own by a couple would have to spend 99 % of its yearly profit over a decade to afford an inheritance tax bill . more starkly , a single farmer with 200 acre would have to pay 136 % of their yearly profit to cover the bill . clearly , that be unaffordable . a real - life example be send to I by a constituent . he be a farmer whose elderly father be still alive but no long work , and whose son be at a local agricultural college and hope one day to follow in his footstep . such an inheritance tax bill make his farm unviable and put his son ' s future in doubt . his father be distraught . he say to his wife that morning , " what be the point of even go to work ? " I have have correspondence from an agricultural accountant in my constituency who say that , since the Budget , his job have change from be an accountant to be a counsellor as more and more farmer contact he with serious concern about their mental health , because of the fear that have be introduce by this policy and the fact that their child be now tell they that they do not want to go into the family farm . my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . farming be a lonely existence at time , and farmer have traditionally suffer from mental health difficulty . this policy be make thing far bad , and for small family farm it really be devastating . as other in the House have say , tenant have not be take into account in any of this . the impact of business property relief be far great than any of we have discuss so far , because it do not just relate to farm . it relate to any unquoted business , which could be a local haulier , an abattoir or a feed merchant . all of these — the tapestry of our agricultural economy — be impact by these measure . it really be a devastating attack on our way of life . if we take the Treasury ' s figure , which show that £ 500 million will be take each year by these taxis , that be £ 500 million that will no long be spend in the rural economy . for example , a farmer who want to expand his livestock herd need to build a new shed , and that mean pay a planning consultant , a construction firm , a mechanic and an electrician . it mean a great feed bill for his new livestock , and he have to buy the livestock . all of those thing be part of the wide economy . it be not just the farmer who will be hit by this policy ; it be everyone in rural community . the Secretary of State tell we at the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee that it will all be fine because farm , under his tutelage , will become more profitable . the only way to make farm profitable that quickly be by greatly increase food price . if we be to go down the route of food inflation and of inflation more widely , then fine , but the Government be go to have to explain that to consumer in the supermarket . do my hon . friend agree that , as part of Labour Members ' total failure to understand the countryside , they probably do not get that farmer be one of the very few sector that have to buy retail but sell wholesale ? my hon . friend be absolutely correct . farmer be of course price taker , not price setter , and they have always be under great pressure from the retail chain to keep their price to a minimum , so that we can all enjoy cheap food . that be a fact of life , and a very difficult challenge . my colleague on the Select Committee have great expertise on the farming industry . he will therefore know that , for the last 14 year , the record of his party in government have be one of failure for our farming industry , with 12 , 000 farm close since 2010 and energy bill skyrocket because the conservative party fail to invest in energy independence , hit our farmer and reduce profitability . we be go to have to agree to disagree on that point . frankly , this be a policy dream up by the Treasury on a spreadsheet . there have be no impact assessment , and there be no understanding of its impact on rural community . this be not just an assault on farmer ; it be an attack on the entire agricultural economy . the end result will be less british food , reduce british food security and few british job . will the Minister please give our farmer some hope this Christmas , and look at this again ? I must admit that , as a new member and a novice when it come to the fine detail of parliamentary procedure , I be surprised that we be debate this issue in this way today . as the opposition know , the agricultural property relief measure announce in the Budget be not include in the Budget vote last month . they also know that the measure will be include in a future Finance Bill alongside other measure that will be subject to the technical consultation in the new year . this decision be simply not be make today , despite the disingenuous social medium post that imply otherwise . this detail matter to I , because I have spend the last few week speak to farmer in Penrith and Solway to try to understand the full impact of the inheritance tax proposal , know that I have month leave to engage with DEFRA and the Treasury and to seek important amendment . let I be clear : if today be the real vote , I would vote against the Government ' s plan . I be no rebel — I be a moderate — but during the election , I read what I think be assurance from my party that we have no plan to introduce change to APR . on that basis , I reassure farmer in my constituency that we would not , and now I simply be not prepared to break my word . I be tell that there be no Labour MP in the country with as many farm as I have in Penrith and Solway , and I hope my colleague will understand my feeling on this . today , however , we be debate a frankly irrelevant motion from the Conservatives . the motion fail to acknowledge how they fail to deliver for my farmer , how they fail to deliver on trade deal after Brexit , and how they set budget for new rural payment scheme , but could not make the scheme accessible . they make manifesto commitment for the public sector to buy British that never materialise , and they fail to spend flood prevention money that be desperately need by my farmer on the Solway plain . they fail to deliver reform of inheritance tax rule that farmer know be be abuse by non - farmer at their expense . I simply will not walk into a Lobby with people who talk a good game on farming but do not deliver . their motion start with the word , " that this House regret " , yet 14 year of failure do not even get a whisper . I listen to the Member ' s speech very closely . paragraph 20 . 13 of " Erskine May " state : " formerly , the House strictly observe a rule against anticipation " . that be design to restrict debate on a subject to the type of proceeding deem to be the most effective . as the word " formerly " suggest , the rule be no long strictly observe and have not be for many year . the principal provision in the Budget relate to agricultural property relief be not contain in the Finance Bill currently before the House , so the question of anticipation do not arise . in any case , I be firmly of the view that any absolute rule should not prevent member , whether act individually or as party , from hold the Government to account . I hope that that satisfy the Member ; it be not a point for he to respond to right now . I rise to join conservative colleague in call on the Labour Government to stop this farm tax . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) and to have hear what he say about those false promise before the general election . perhaps he , too , want his government to think again about what they be do . the other week , thousand of farmer take the extraordinary step of come to Westminster to protest against this misguided policy . unfortunately , the Government have put their head in the sand and be pursue this policy . I hope this debate will make they think again and make they listen . I give the Exchequer Secretary 10 out of 10 for appear in the Chamber today , even though he be a junior Minister at the Treasury — he certainly pull the short straw by be put on the Front Bench today . I ask Ministers not just to come here , but to listen to what be be say and to really listen to the need of our farming community . we have hear a lot today about what british farmer do — they be steward of the land , guardian of our food security and the backbone of the rural economy — yet the Government show a fundamental lack of understanding of how their policy will affect the industry . they be push ahead with it , even though it jeopardise not just farmer ’ livelihood but the very future of our countryside . the number speak for themselves . while the Government claim that only 27 % of farm will be affect , the National Farmers Union have warn that 75 % of family farm will be affect . if I be in government and I see the discrepancy between those number , I would go back to the drawing board , check the figure and ask why those discrepancy be there , not dig in deeply . I think the curse of this Labour Government and what they will be remember for be their distinct lack of grasp of detail and of how the economy work , rural and otherwise . [ interruption . ] yes , this Budget have be a disaster of a Budget . my right hon . friend be make excellent point . do she agree that there be not only a lack of grasp of detail , but an astounding sense of arrogance — an inability to listen to those who know what they be do , the farmer , and who have the experience and the expertise ? there be just a blank inexplicable unwillingness by this government to listen to the voice of expertise and of experience . I thank my hon . friend for bring that point to the House . this debate allow those on the Labour Benches to say , " actually , let ' s go back to the drawing board . let ' s look at this discrepancy in the number . " for all their talk of growth — I return to the Budget — this Government ' s policy be deliver the exact opposite of growth , with the change to employer national insurance contribution and the change to right from day one . they be talk down the economy and crush growth in the economy , with the forecast be revise to be low than it be . even if the government do not want to hear this from I , and even if they do not want to hear it from the farmer , I want they to hear it from a labour - support tax expert , Dan Neidle . he have eventually come to the conclusion that Labour ' s farm tax be a dog ' s dinner of a policy . originally , Dan have criticise what he see as " over - the - top coverage " of the impact these tax change would have , but he say that on close inspection he have reverse his decision , remark that these Budget change would hit " farmer too hard and tax avoider too lightly . " he argue that the policy need to change . Dan Neidle have say that the Treasury should raise the inheritance tax cap dramatically to around £ 20 million so " only the large and most sophisticated farm business become subject to IHT " . those on the Labour Benches might not want to listen to I , but I hope they will listen to one of their own tax expert . a moment ago , we hear talk from the liberal Democrat Benches of a family farm tax and land taxis . it now seem that the right hon . Lady be suggest we take up Dan Neidle ' s suggestion . will she confirm whether that be the case ? it would be good if member listen to what I say . I say it be not too late for Labour to reverse this policy ; even their own tax adviser be say , on close inspection , it need to be reverse . that be what I be ask those on the Government Benches to do . we have hear today that farmer be asset - rich , but in reality they be cash poor , and that be the crux of the matter before we today . in the time I have leave , I will mention a couple of farmer from my constituency . a seventh - generation farmer tell I she be hope to pass her farm on to the eighth generation , but that now do not seem possible because if they have to sell a proportion of the land , which they will , that will make the whole farm be unviable . another farmer of mine , Richard Shepherd , a few year ago build a state - of - the - art cow cubicle shed for their dairy herd , a piece of modern technology he believe would prepare the farm for the challenge of the 21st century , invest in method to produce high - quality , affordable and nutritious food — the type of innovation this country will come to rely on for food security in the future . however , now , with this change from the Labour Government , he will owe between £ 600 , 000 and over £ 1 million in inheritance tax . he have say that , " like any other business , we need confidence to invest in our farm . that ' s what we want to do : we want to grow our farm , invest in it , and this will destroy this . " Richard Barnett , an accountant who work with many farmer in my constituency , have warn of two immediate consequence of these propose change . first , there will be an increase in the number of individual seek to acquire farmland up to £ 1 million to mitigate inheritance tax , result in a reduction in the amount of tax that the Treasury can expect to generate from this policy , as well as an increase in land price . secondly , he expect a consequence of these change to be that the financial industry will enter the land market with individual invest up to £ 1 million in farmland , acquire it and then we will see farmland be lose — order . I call Callum Anderson . I associate myself with the excellent speech by my hon . friend the Members for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) , for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) and for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) , who be all absolutely right to say that this Government be commit to stand shoulder to shoulder with british farmer and ensure their voice be hear and their future be secure . nowhere be this more vital than in Buckinghamshire , where farming be not just an industry , but an integral part of our local identity . it support our economy , shape our landscape and be weave into the fabric of our community . since I be elect in July I have engage closely with farmer across north Buckinghamshire , and I have be grateful to meet local agricultural and rural business in my constituency such as Boycott farm in Stowe and Hogshaw farm and wildlife park ; I thank they for welcome I to their world . these visit have reinforce my commitment to represent their interest and address the challenge they face . I have be strike this afternoon as I listen to speech from across the House by the inability of the Conservatives to confront and defend their own record in office . time and again , the previous Government fail to stand up for Buckinghamshire farmer . as have be say , they fail to spend £ 358 million of the UK ' s agricultural budget , and that money should have go straight into the pocket of Buckinghamshire farmer . instead , the Conservatives leave it on the table , not because it be not need , but because they could not be bother to make sure that their policy to replace the basic payment scheme be complete on time . that be their attitude when in office . the gap and the unanswered question in the scheme leave many farmer in my constituency in limbo , undermine their confidence and threaten their livelihood . when in government , the opposition fail again when they negotiate trade deal with Australia and New Zealand , remove most tariff on beef and lamb . even the Conservative Cabinet Member responsible for negotiate the deal say it be a bad one . these deal have open the floodgate to import that threaten to undercut our domestic producer , leave british farmer struggle to compete against low - welfare and low - cost alternative . our farmer deserve well . that be why this Government be determined to do thing differently . we have commit , as other have say , £ 5 billion to the farming budget over the next two year . that be the large investment in sustainable food production in our history , because we know that food security be national security . in the come year alone , £ 2 . 4 billion will go directly to support british farmer , ensure that they can thrive in a rapidly change and uncertain world . will the hon . member give way ? I would be happy to be there not too little time . these investment be about more than money . they represent a vision for a resilient and sustainable future . on the inheritance tax point , the Government ' s approach be balanced and fair . will the hon . member give way ? I will not on this occasion . just last night , the former Conservative Chancellor Lord Clarke agree with our approach , say that he be team Chancellor . he say it be " a strange exemption … which be why so many rich people buy agricultural land " . he be not wrong . as other have say , in 2021 - 22 , the top 7 % of wealthy claimant account for 40 % of the total value of APR , at a cost of £ 219 million to the taxpayer , as my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) say . the majority of claimant will not be affect . couple inherit farm can still pass up to £ 3 million tax - free , and any additional asset will be tax at half the standard rate , with payment spread over 10 year . this government be deliver a new deal — a square deal — for farmer , include measure to ensure that british produce be prioritise in Government procurement , that farmer be not undercut by low - welfare import and that energy cost be reduce through innovative solution . our farmer deserve a Government who listen , support and invest in they , and this Government be commit to do just that . I rise to speak on behalf of Mid Norfolk , a rural , agricultural , food - process constituency that be reel from this surprise and savage attack that be not in the labour manifesto . I have no direct interest in farming , but I be the child of a farming family — my stepbrother run that business . I work on farm from the age of 15 to 21 . I be go to go into farm management , and I think I still have a place at Harper Adams agricultural college if this career do not work out . my first job be with the NFU , work here in Parliament . I be a director of Elsoms Seeds and I be proud as a Minister to lead the agritech industrial strategy . I be chair of the all - party parliamentary group on science and technology in agriculture . this be a hugely important strategic industry to the UK . it be key to our food security — now , gratifyingly , a Government priority — and it be completely key to the world ' s ability to feed 9 billion mouth . we be a great agricultural research and technology economy , and the world be hungry for our innovation . agriculture be also completely key to net zero . agriculture and transport be the two dirty industry , and agriculture be move more quickly than any , pioneer regenerative system of agriculture and carbon - capture system . those innovation be be drive by a new generation of young UK farmer , who be different from the post - war generation . they take their responsibility to the broad planet and regenerative agriculture seriously . at the same time as agriculture be a key strategic industry , farmer look after our countryside and keep our rural economy healthy . all of those be achieve in the most extraordinary way , in an industry not dominate by big company . this industry be make up of million of small business . moreover , they exist in the most extraordinary business climate . they operate on incredibly expensive asset — the land — which they never seek to monetise , as colleague have point out , in an industry in which their cost be fix . they invest in all their cost up front and wait hopefully for a price for their product , which be subject to the vagary of the weather and of climate change . Most business people look at that business model would say , " that be not a business I want to be in . " why do our family farmer do it ? they do it because it be a way of life and because it be deeply embed in the value of their family , their countryside and their community . it be about stewardship , and it make it all the more remarkable that this Government have decide to attack that very bit of the agricultural economy . what be the aim of this policy ? what be the impact of this policy ? how should this House and those mp who understand the rural economy respond ? if the Government have say , " our aim be to close the loophole of land asset speculator enjoy the legitimate family tax relief that the Conservatives put in place in 1984 , " I probably would have support they . if they have say , " we want to stop international hedge fund enjoy a tax relief design to protect family farm , " I suspect many of we would have support they . if they have say , " we want to support new entrant to the industry to promote diversified , regenerative agriculture , to increase investment and to promote the vibrant rural economy , " I probably would have support they . that , however , be not the aim of this policy . the truth be that we do not know its aim , because the policy be never in the Government ' s manifesto and it be not from DEFRA . it be a Treasury policy that have be land on unwitte Ministers , who be now have to carry the can . we know it be anti - small business , anti - family business and anti the rural economy . the former labour adviser , John McTernan , let the cat out of the bag . he say that Labour have wait a long time to seek revenge for the Tory attack on the miner , and it be go to attack the farming community now — [ interruption . ] that be exactly what he say . the impact of the policy be clear ; we only have to read the CLA and NFU briefing . I have meet Gavin Lane , Phil and Sophie Ellis , Oliver Munday and Nigel Stangroom . Most of our average family farm will have to pay tax bill of £ 400 , 000 , £ 500 , 000 or £ 600 , 000 . where will they get the money , when the business do not generate the profit to pay those bill ? they will all have to sell land , but who will buy it ? it will not be their neighbour , because they will be sell land , too . I fear that this policy be design in the Treasury with the support of bit of the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero and DEFRA . the people hang over Mid Norfolk wait to buy the land be the big solar developer and the big mass housing developer . will the hon . member give way ? I will not , as time be short and colleague want to speak . this policy be a prescription for the industrialisation of the countryside , cook up in the Treasury in the summer when nobody be look . it will lead to family farm be break up and sell , farm investment fall and young farmer leave , with a major economic impact and tertiary impact in my part of the world . those industry that support farming be already see the effect . the response of rural mps should be to move fast behind the hon . member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) and make it clear to the Treasury that it need to adjust the mechanism , change the threshold and change this policy , unless Labour want to be the party of rural devastation . it be always a privilege to speak on behalf of my constituency , which be the large in England and one of the most rural . I start by pay tribute to the farmer I have engage with , both as a labour candidate — I have my selection meeting at a Hexham farmer market — and since I have be elect , whether in London , on their individual farm , through the NFU or otherwise . have have genuinely balance and informative conversation about they , and I have share the outcome of those conversation with Ministers and through the appropriate channel . what really strike I be that this be an unserious motion bring by an unserious party ; one that fail to understand the countryside and fail to understand why it lose seat that it have hold — in the case of Hexham , for 100 year . the conservative party undermine the confidence of young people to remain in the community where they grow up , and it cry foul at any attempt to provide housing in my local community . I spend this morning meeting with Hexham Community Partnership to talk about the appalling overcrowding in Hexham and the need for genuinely affordable housing . the problem be have a devastating effect , force people out of the town they grow up in . the Conservatives have oversight of that in my part of the world for 100 year . they need to look in the mirror and genuinely consider why rural community turn against they so much . will the hon . member give way ? I will . the vast expanse of green on the Opposition Benches remind I of the british countryside . do the hon . Member think that perhaps the reason the good people of Hexham vote for he be because they be promise explicitly that his Government would not do what they be currently do ? when we start a new job and find that the previous person in that job have not pay invoice for the previous year and deliberately withhold financial information , we have an honest conversation with the public about what be achievable . in any business , we have to be honest with people about deliverable . [ interruption . ] well , ultimately people in my constituency be sick of the chaos . they be sick of see Liz Truss plaster all over the newspaper . when I speak to my farmer , I hear a real cry for security and genuine forward - planning from a defra that listen and be not turn into a political football , as it be too often by the Conservatives . I know , have grow up in a rural community alongside the child of farmer , that they value road that be not full of pothole , a stable economy and library that be not fall down — exactly the public service that every one of we expect . will the hon . Gentleman set out how many farmer he have speak to since the Budget and , of those , how many support the Government ' s policy ? the hon . member be welcome to come and take a look at my diary at some point . on the Saturday after the Budget , I go to a farm . on the second Saturday after the Budget , I go to a farm . I then meet with NFU member at my office in London . believe I : labour member work their constituency a lot hard than Tory Members . I hope that my hon . friend see I as a fellow Labour MP who work his constituency hard and speak to resident . farmer tell I that they be concerned about rural crime . we can all agree that something that DEFRA have get right under the Labour Government be tackle rural crime , and the rural crime strategy in particular . do farmer speak to he about that , as they do to I ? they absolutely do ; my hon . friend be right . what people — not just farmer — speak to I about be the need for that grow , stable economy . they be infuriate with the conservative party for pretend to jump on a bandwagon after take farmer for grant for 14 year while in government . before the Budget , the hon . Member will remember attend a Westminster Hall debate that I organise specifically on agricultural property relief and business property relief . will he agree that the Conservatives have not jump on that since the Budget ? we have be speak about it for a very long time . I thank the hon . member for her intervention . she and I must have a slightly different view of a very long time . a few week ago be not a very long time for I . I be talk about year in which local farming community be ignore . the botched Brexit deal that the conservative party secure do not do any farmer any favour . labour be the only party that be genuinely serious about countryside renewal . we can not pack community across Northumberland in aspic and pretend that they do not need house or service . that be why the Conservatives lose . that be why I be here . will the hon . member give way ? I have take plenty of intervention in a short time . ultimately , the Government will be judge on the success of our record and whether we can get the farming budget into the pocket of farmer . I have every faith that the Government and DEFRA will do that . I do not believe that the conservative party could honestly say that it ever trust its DEFRA Ministers to do the same . I rise to support the many farmer in my constituency and the rural community that farmer be the very heart of . I want to do something a little different in this debate and try to figure out what be behind some of the move that the Labour party have put in place when it come to farming . [ hon . member : " what about Brexit ? " ] believe I , I be come to that , but I want to try to understand a little bit about the Government ' s motive . what I think it come down to be a clumsy attempt to try to define what work people be . it be clear that farmer do not fit that bill . even though they work 12 - hour day in backbreake condition , mainly outdoors , right into old age , they just do not seem to fit into that particular clique . labour have always have an urban - centric view of our country . everything it do in politic be view mainly through a metropolitan lens . farmer have never really have a chance with this Labour Government . it should come as no surprise — I know why Labour Members shout down the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) — that someone as thoroughly unpleasant and John McTernan , Tony Blair ' s former aide , would say something like farmer should receive the same as what Margaret Thatcher dish out to the miner . I think his view that we could do without our farming industry have just a little currency in the Labour party . Labour Members would do well to be honest about these thing . for our comrade on the Government Benches , farmer be simply not " one of we " . the last time we have a whole cohort of Labour Members on the Government Benches , we would mercilessly tease they that there be " nae ferm in Scottish Labour . " two thing about that quite unjust slight : first , they do not respond — they do not seem to care , it be a matter of " Whatevs " ; and secondly , it be patently untrue . there be lot of farm in Scottish Labour , and there be with the cohort down here . a great number of Scottish Labour mps represent rural and farming constituency . but the point remain the same : they just do not care about what happen to farmer . I think the general view be that Labour mp do not rely on a rural farming vote — they could just about muddle through their election without the support of the rural community . they see farming as just another business that they might find in one of their town or city centre . they understand nothing about how it be possible to be asset rich and resource poor , land value and the intimate nature of family farm , which be dependent on fix asset to generate business and activity . the simple fact be that this government do not understand the rural community , or how the generational continuity of farm work . and now , load of new Labour mps represent rural constituency in England . rural Labour Members of Parliament do not tend to last all that long — they may be in for one term , or possible two term at most . that be generally because they be force to accept and subsume the agenda put forward by their government . my bit of advice to they be to start think about the farmer and their community , start to think about their own electoral arithmetic and try to be on the side of farmer for a change . I can not believe what I be hear . I be a four - time Member of Parliament for a semi - rural seat , have first be elect in 1997 . the hon . member be just talk nonsense . I have never hear anything like it . I be a bit familiar with the hon . Gentleman ' s electoral history — he be out of Parliament for quite a long time . it be good to see he back in his place , obviously , but he be boot out , which be basically down to his lack of interest , concern or care about what be happen in the rural community . if I be NFU England , I would be sure to put that in front of the Members of Parliament who represent rural constituency in England . I have a couple of bit of advice for some of the UK farmer and their representative . first of all , Jeremy Clarkson be not their friend . he represent the part of the rural community that be so far away from the real struggle that farmer face that he may as well be in an urban Labour constituency . secondly , farmer must be very careful of what the conservative party be offer . let we remember that the conservative party oversee the cost of living crisis , the ending of thousand of farm , and who — to come to the point make by hon . member — bring in the absurd and economically illiterate Brexit . the Tory hard Brexit increase farming cost , introduce unnecessary barrier to market , allow low - quality competitor in the marketplace and have take billion of pound out of the rural economy . how the Tories be able to sell this chaotic Brexit pup to so many rural community will go down as one of the bad piece of mis - selling in british farming . there be a different way to do it . in Scotland , we do thing differently . we be make sure that there will be a constant farm payment to farmer in Scotland . we have also put food production at the very heart of our farming policy . today , in the Scottish Budget , as well as introduce a winter fuel payment , we will abolish the two - child benefit cap . on top of that , £ 660 million will be go to farmer . all the money that be keep for Government emergency in the past few Budgets will be return in full . that be how the Government can support farmer . it would be good to see this Labour Government do a bit of that in the future . I welcome the opportunity to speak in this debate , and I be grateful that the Conservatives , after many year of ignore farmer , have finally decide to pay attention to farming and food security . farming play a vital role in the past , present and future of North Northumberland . there be almost 2 , 000 farm across Northumberland , in my constituency and that of my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) ; each of they proudly and patiently shape the landscape that we view as quintessentially british , and they play a crucial role in sustain local community . farmer be good for North Northumberland . since become a Member of Parliament , I have spend a great deal of time meet they and represent their concern in Parliament . in fact , my first non - maiden speech be on the virtue and challenge of sheep farming . I have do that because I understand , as the Government do , that farming be central both to the community I represent and to our way of life in the UK . put simply , our country can not flourish without a flourish farming sector . farming have be batter for 14 year under previous government . as I be prepare for this debate , I read a recent letter from a farming constituent about a range of difficulty he face : " for many year government intervention have always dominate the top of my risk register , due to inconsistent policy and its oft re - enforce reputation as a poor payer . " it would be convenient for the Conservatives if farmer across the UK be to forget about the past 14 year and blame all the current difficulty on a Government who have be in office for just six month . however , create a reputation for Government as a " poor payer " and have inconsistent policy take year , not month . in July 2023 , the Competition and Markets Authority find that the post - 2020 squeeze inflict on our food supply chain be a combination of significant rise in energy , commodity and labour cost , make bad in some case by adverse movement in the exchange rate . in other word , farmer have be squeeze for year by energy price , labour cost and a depreciation of the pound , and the previous Government bear some responsibility for all those factor . in April 2024 , the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit find that since Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , the Government have enact only three out of 10 policy necessary to improve energy security and bring price down in the long term , which speak to year of failure on energy , whether that be sell off gas storage capacity , dodge tough decision on nuclear or go cool on the urgency of global warming by ban onshore wind . when global energy fluctuate , the lack of long - term preparation leave our farmer expose to rocket price . another matter I would like to raise be the issue of large retailer at time let down our farmer . they be able to dominate negotiation around own - label product , and , with 90 % of farm - produce vegetable be sell by supermarket , farmer be stick in a monopoly position that threaten their business . I urge the Government to do what they can to ensure reliable pricing and supply arrangement can be set between farmer and retailer that benefit our national food security . there be also the issue of subsidy . we need to get the money out the door to farmer , and make sure they can actually get the funding that they do not get under the previous Government . I will finish by mention another of the issue we have talk about today on APR . there be a need for continue constructive engagement around the recently announce propose reform . while every farmer I have speak to welcome the proposal to end taxpayer subsidy for the super - wealthy buy up land in order to avoid inheritance tax , I be aware that the Government be face two compete responsibility . the first manage the national finance , and the second be ensure that every community can follow its tradition and dream . as a farmer recently write to I : " despite all that be throw at my father over the year , all he ever want to do be farm and he love it . somehow , it be in his blood . " I know the Government understand this . I urge the Minister to continue to keep that front and centre as we support the contribution of farmer to our national life . after many year of ineptitude , neglect and the doling out of crumb by the Conservatives , it must be labour that truly become the party of farming and rural life . as many member know , I be able to speak with some expertise on this subject , as I be the first female director of the NFU in some 100 year and I now represent a constituency , in which I have live for 34 year , where there be 1 , 006 farm or holding . the Country Land and Business Association say that 432 of those farm will be affect by the measure . I be know as somebody who try to reach across the Chamber and make friend with hon . member on both side . I do not particularly enjoy confrontation , so there be element of the debate that I have find unpleasant and disappointing . I do not like the reference to class come from the Labour Benches , or the suggestion that it have anything to do with class come from hon . member on the conservative Benches . that be an irrelevance . please do not play politic with my farmer — they be too important . my plea to the Minister , when he be listen , be that he look again — I be not ask he to change the policy ; I understand that it be Treasury - drive — at some thing that need to be look at again . it be a flawed assumption that ownership be split 50 : 50 between spouse . that be not the case across Exmoor . and if it be not the case , especially in cross - generational farming family where old farmer hold on to the property so as not to burden the young generation with increase capital gain tax on any future sale should they wish , then the relief state by the Chancellor will not add up to the value state . another flawed assumption be that average family farm be worth under £ 3 million . they be not . I be grateful to my constituent and good friend Guy Thomas - Everard , who go out of his way to give I the bill of sale for a perfectly average farm outside Winsford in my constituency . it be value at £ 3 . 5 million , and that be before we count the deadstock and the livestock . will the hon . Lady give way ? no . another flawed assumption be that the residential nil rate band will be applicable . if the value of the farm business be worth over £ 2 . 65 million , there be no residential nil rate band , so that swallow up large number of family farm . I know that many member be very , very unhappy indeed with the proposal . the hon . member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) say he will vote with the Government because of the dire state that the former Government leave farmer and agriculture in , but he be right when he say that this be a flawed piece of legislation . it will devastate family farm . I implore and beg the Minister to look at it again — and at least to get the fact right . all government have to make tough decision . face with a £ 22 billion black hole , Labour have choose to raise taxis on only the very wealthy . the Conservatives ' record be instead to choose to place the burden on the poor in society — those with disability and those who be very young . in fact , I be see that in real time in Derbyshire , as the conservative leader of Derbyshire county council have choose not to spend his time deal with the disastrous recent ofsted report on the sorry state of special education need and disability provision in derbyshire affect thousand of vulnerable child , or try to deal with the terrible county finance which it be try to plug by close much - love care home , again leave some very vulnerable people with an uncertain future . where be he ? he be march with wealthy landowner down here in London . I ask the shadow Minister what she think first attract various multimillionaire in various industry to suddenly discover a passion for farming and buy farm in their late middle age . I have think that the Conservatives would want to discuss the huge challenge face our NHS , the cost of living crisis affect so many of my constituent or their fail track record in deliver vital regional infrastructure ; but no , we have have silence on those issue . what have get they out literally march on the street be a rush to defend multimillionaire . my constituent can see what be the no . 1 priority , and it be not the same as theirs . let we be clear : retain the status quo , for which the Conservatives be argue , would see 7 % of claimant receive 40 % of the relief . that be £ 219 million give to just 117 estate . why should 117 of the rich get £ 219 million in tax relief , and not ordinary family ? one would have think that , after such a profound rejection of their party ' s record in government back in July , the Conservatives would have take some time to listen to the electorate and learn . the electorate see that this Labour party be different , and vote we in . perhaps the Conservatives should take a close look — and here I include the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) . many of my colleague be deeply rooted in their rural community , and I myself come from a family of farmer . in fact , I spend most of my family Sunday lunch listen to an in - depth monologue on SFI technical detail , which be of course very welcome . while the Conservatives be rush to defend the wealthy in society , we in Labour will be focus on what matter to rural community : access to rural health facility , a record £ 5 billion for farmer , a new commissioner for tenant farmer — which be fantastic — a new rural crime strategy , and protect farmer from bad trade deal . come from a family of farmer , I know a wolf in sheep ' s clothing when I see one . however much the Conservatives bleat about stand up for farmer , their bushy tail and terrible record for farm over the past 14 year tell I otherwise . I will always fight for farmer , to improve farming income and to support farming community . that be my priority , and it be the priority of this Government . I must begin by draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I rise to support the land - base and agrifood sector in my constituency , a sector that stand bewildered at what this Government be do to it — a Government who it think have its back , and that be go for growth . a farmer constituent write to I shortly after the Budget , say : " all these change have mean that our already tight margin be non - existent . the next few month be go to be spend calculate if it would be well to just sell up and no long farm . " that be hardly surprising , give that the average salary of a farmer in this country be a little over £ 22 , 000 , although farmer be describe by many as be multimillionaire . my constituent ' disappointment be heighten by the Government ' s assurance before the election , and the specific promise that they make on APR and BPR . I think that , if I may say so without damn his career too much — I see that he be no long in the Chamber — the hon . member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) do we a service by remind we of that promise . however , we should not be surprised . my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) and the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) have already draw attention to John McTernan , who very helpfully allow the mask to slip when , refer to farmer , he say that we should " do to they what Margaret Thatcher do to the miner . " he go on to say that farming be " an industry we can do without … we don ' t need small farmer . " I hope that when the Minister wind up the debate , he will do we a service by distance himself completely from those sentiment . the Government ' s estimate of in - scope farmer be either incompetent or tricksy and duplicitous . set aside Ministers ' apparent confusion over what constitute an acre and what constitute a hectare , we be of course indebted to the Central Association of Agricultural Valuers , which say that 75 , 000 farm over a single generation will be affect — five time the Government ' s estimate . I think the Minister should reflect on that , because there be no shame in admit that the Government and their official have get this wrong . there be time to fix it , and there be time to look at such independent source , to compare and contrast their datum with the datum that the Government ' s official have produce , and to tack accordingly . be the Minister to do so — I appreciate the Treasury pressure that he be under — his stock among the farming community would rise substantially in these early few month of his tenure . I have a helpful suggestion : the Government have pick the wrong target . I think that many member of this House would be perfectly happy for this Government or any Government to target those who have , over year , use land to avoid inheritance tax , particularly institutional investor , hedge fund manager and oversea investor , who have artificially put up the price of land in this country , which force new entrant out of the market and distort it . that be a perfectly legitimate thing for any Government to do , but what this government be do be pick on small and medium - sized farm , many of which have be in family for generation . the Government be do the productive sector of our land economy in this country a massive disservice and , frankly , be act in a way that be unfair and unworthy . I implore the Minister , who I know be a good man , to think again . he should talk to the Treasury , and turn his fire on individual and institution use land to avoid tax , which force up land price . hand off our family farm ! bassetlaw have a heritage and a future in energy production , with coalmining and power station once dominate the skyline , the workforce and our community . although its focus be now shift towards bring world - lead fusion energy production to the area , we also have a proud tradition of food production , with farm and rural community cover over half of my constituency . the farmer in Bassetlaw be deep - rooted and a proud part of our history . it be essential that I meet local farmer both before and after I be elect in July , so that I could understand their priority and represent their interest . follow my election , I immediately join the NFU scheme , and I look forward to visit a chicken - pack centre at the end of this week . I want to know at first hand the difficulty , the conflict and the change that our farmer be make to meet today ' s challenging need , expectation and market force . in bassetlaw , we have a mix of mainly arable farm , with some farm combine livestock and arable , and a small number that focus solely on livestock . in recent time , they have have to deal with the impact of Storms Babet and Henk , with water sit in field for month , which have turn they into pond bottom and impact on production plan and opportunity . over the last 14 year , hike in the cost of live and rise in the price of fuel , seed and grain have all have impact . get people to work on our farm have prove to be a perennial problem , which have be make much more difficult in recent year because apprenticeship opportunity remain unfilled and find reliable crop picker be become as rare as hen ' s tooth . rural crime be a huge issue . fly - tipping and the theft of livestock and equipment be daily threat that interrupt people ' s work life and impact on production and profit . the Tories ' Brexit deal ignore the need of farmer . we have all see the queuing at the port , with rot fruit and vegetable and an inability to safely transport livestock . the last government ' s trade deal have allow cheap food to be import due to the low farming standard in overseas nation . I welcome the £ 5 billion commitment to british farmer in the recent Budget — the large ever financial commitment in farming history . it will be direct at sustainable food production so that we eat more british - produce food . there will be an additional £ 60 million to support farmer affect by the storm last winter , alongside the new flood resilience taskforce that will work to protect farmer ’ field from the extreme of the weather , and on top of this the Government have commit £ 208 million to rebuild the armoury against disease threat that impact so greatly on the farming industry . for the first time ever , there will be a cross - Government rural crime strategy focus on crack down on the criminal who blight our countryside . I want to live in a country that put pride into buy british food . my challenge be that we lead that campaign in our advertising , our supermarket , our restaurant and cafe , our high street and our market . align the Union Jack with the food we eat be the key to strengthen our commitment to buy British , whether it be on our menu or on the shop counter . choose British must become the first and good choice . we need to adapt to once again buy and eat seasonal food . that be a way of life and be something that we should be proud to return to . forget convenience and buy british ! that be why I welcome the Government ' s use their purchasing power across the public sector . some 50 % of the food eat in hospital , prison , school and army basis will now have to be locally produce . this government will protect farmer from be undercut by the low welfare standard and poor standard in trade deal . I be proud to sit on the Bill Committee that be steer through a new veterinary agreement with the EU to get our live food export into overseas market . I be proud of my country and I be proud of the farmer in Bassetlaw . I will continue to listen to their concern and I be speak to DEFRA and Treasury Ministers about those concern . their voice be my voice . I commend my near neighbour , the hon . member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) , on his brave contribution . it be hard to come to this Chamber and tell the truth when the pressure from the Whips and the party be to defend the Government at all cost . he make it absolutely clear that this measure will have a devastating effect on farm and the farming industry in his constituency if it go through as currently set out . the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency and mine have something in common in that , in the 2001 foot and mouth outbreak , which devastate the farming industry , we see for sure how important farming be to the whole community . because farming be shut down , business be shut down . shop be shut and lot of business include garage and all the service in rural area could not function because farming be not function . that show I the great importance that farming have . ironically , however , the outcome for my constituency of this measure from a Labour Government will be the further acquisition of land by private equity company . this be because , thank partly to the Scottish Government ' s lifting of restriction on land that can be afforest , good farming land in my constituency be under huge pressure from private equity fund buy it up to plant tree for carbon capture relief . it often seem that it be a great thing to plant tree and that we should all be in favour of it , but the reality be that these tree be Sitka spruce tree that be plant very close together . there be no light or environmental content within these forest area . no creature can survive in they . they be not environmentally friendly or sustainable , but they be financially attractive . they employ nobody . there be no employment once the forest have be plant . when farmer come under pressure , as they will , to sell land to meet the inheritance tax , this be who the buyer will be . it will be these private equity firm , and if it be not they , it will in many instance be those who want to develop solar panel in a farming scenario , as other member have highlight . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that even the most ambitious estimate show we could cover only 1 % of agricultural land with solar farm ? do he agree with Tom Bradshaw , the NFU ' s president , who tell journalist 85 day ago : " what I do want to say be that an individual solar farm be not something which risk national food security " ? and do he agree with the CLA , which say in 2022 : " Solar be also a valuable diversification and cost reduce land use for farm — help to shield exposure to volatile agricultural market " ? no , I do not agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s proposition . I do not think that viable prime agricultural land should be use for solar farm . I believe there be plenty of other brownfield land , or land that be not prime agricultural land , that could be use for solar farm . I be , therefore , not supportive of some of the huge development propose for my constituency . I will now touch on one or two other point that have be raise but not expand on . first , a lot of this discussion have be as if the sole structure of a family farm be mother , father , son and daughter . brother and sister , or cousin , be often involve in the farming business , and it be quite wrong to suggest that some of the relief that can be apply would work in that situation . I have constituent who be in exactly that situation . a family farm be not just mum , dad , son and daughter . it be brother , sister , cousin and extended family . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) touch on tenant farmer . Tenant farmer in Scotland , in particular , be in a very difficult position because they can not sell a couple of field to pay their inheritance tax . they will have to give up the whole of their business , if they can not find the money in other way to pay these bill . we need to understand the issue that face tenant farmer . I also commend the right hon . Gentleman ' s suggestion that there should be a much wide debate about farming finance . the way to secure farming finance , and to secure our farmer , be not to destroy the family farm . I be quite astonished because , as we sit in a pub car park in the run - up to the general election , farmer in my constituency tell I — I kid you not — that they know they do well under a Labour Government but they often vote conservative . it feel like the Conservatives have take their loyalty for grant . the right hon . Gentleman have be talk about how hard thing be , and I agree with he . farmer talk about their margin , and those margin be tight , but who cause they to be in that situation ? we be now in a position of power — Order . I remind member that intervention need to be intervention . they should be brief and ask a question that be relevant to the speech be make . I do not know whether the hon . member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) be here for the speech of the hon . member for Penrith and Solway , but he set out exactly what happen to he as a Labour MP , have give farmer assurance about what Labour would do in government and the farmer find that they have be betray . now , the choice be not final , as he say , and hopefully this debate have show the passion of both farmer and those who represent rural constituency . I be glad that the right hon . Gentleman enjoy my speech . do he enjoy the bit at the end where I list the abject failure of his government ? I like the honesty of the hon . Gentleman ' s speech in set out how the Labour Government have let down his voter by go back on their undertaking in relation to the policy . they should listen to what have be say in today ' s debate , to farmer and to the hon . Gentleman , and they should change the policy . as someone who live on a farm , which be surround by farm , and whose family have farm , and diversify , for generation , I add my voice to all those who have pay tribute to farmer for the crucial role they play in our economy . many other hon . member have say it more eloquently than I can , but let we all recognise the vital role of farm in our economy . in common with colleague , I meet with farmer in the post - Budget period . frankly , I be expect a pretty hard time and there be some robust discussion , but they be also civil , constructive , informative and understanding . I pay tribute to the farmer and the NFU representative who take that approach to the discussion . what most surprise I be how quickly the discussion immediately pivot to the sense of anger , abandonment and betrayal that arise from the past 14 year , which have decimate the industry . fellow member have describe in detail — the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) describe the situation particularly well — the betrayal of Brexit , the spiral energy and feed price , the spiral land cost , and the terrible trade deal that open the door to poor - quality import , which undermine the very farming market that Conservative member claim to value . as we have hear already , that dire management result in over 12 , 000 farm and agribusinesse go out of business since 2010 . that be a terrible , shocking , shameful legacy . for Conservative Members to now present themselves as the champion of farmer be outrageous . they have use the word " arrogance " , but that be what they have display — a refusal to reference , understand or learn from their own history and failing . conservative Members talk about be friend of the farmer but for the past 14 year they be not . it show how little they care that only 18 % of their parliamentary party be present for a debate that they have call — [ interruption . ] only 21 out of 120 conservative Members . it be amazing ; one of my colleague talk about " the green field opposite " in reference to the empty conservative Benches . give that background , it be no surprise that farmer be angry , worried and feel vulnerable . I associate myself with the remark make by the hon . member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) , who call for calm and sense in the debate . emotive language , design to sow fear and cause concern be irresponsible at the very least , so let we try to keep to the fact and keep thing calm and reasonable . the focus of Conservative Members seem to be family farm , but the phrase " family farm tax " immediately create a sense of fear and targeting , which be completely wrong . with some sensible tax planning , £ 3 million of asset can be exempt . many speech have glance over the importance of gift right . let we take the scenario of a family farm , in its true sense , that be to be pass between generation . surely , gift right be a massive opportunity to avoid all inheritance tax and remove the sense of fear that Conservative Members be try to create . Most of the rest of the country have to do that simple estate planning by default . as the hon . Gentleman will be aware , reservation of benefit apply when an asset that be still be use be pass on under the seven - year rule . be he suggest that a farmer who have be on their farm for their whole life should move out of their farmhouse , get off the land and pay market rate rent ? where will they get that money from , give that , as we know , farm profit be so small ? a range of relief , benefit and right create an ability , in most case , to avoid tax . let we take the seven - year rule . it be a tapered rule , so after four year , the liability drop from 20 % to 12 % . also — this have not be mention much today — inheritance tax insurance be available . particularly for young farmer who wish to gift those asset to the next generation , inheritance tax insurance effectively mitigate any risk of death inside seven year . I recognise that for old farmer that can become quite expensive ; none the less , it be a mitigation that be open to anybody . I recognise the issue of gift with reservation , but that be my central point . it be not just I say this ; the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say that with sensible , realistic and relatively straightforward estate planning , estate worth considerably more than £ 2 million will remain exempt from tax . there be many measure that can be take . however , in this context , one of the great benefit of have detailed discussion with farmer be the ability to recognise the practicality and the detail . by talk to Becki , who run a multi - generational farm in Darwen , I come to recognise that there be very good argument for a degree of flexibility around gift right and timescale for the over - 80 . it be a perfectly good argument for the provision of professional and detailed tax advice to allow genuine family farm to take full advantage of all the relief that be available . I genuinely believe that well - advise true family farm can , with a plan to pass those farm between the generation , mitigate or completely avoid any liability from these taxis . I will finish by go back to the main point that member have make : farm do not make enough money . turn thing around , get back to a situation — [ interruption . ] we need to get back to a situation where farm can succeed as business and where we bring cost down , not just raise price as be suggest . we need to bring energy cost down and make bill be more stable , use the Government ' s purchase power to buy locally produce food , protect farmer from be undercut through bad trade deal , and remove risk through a rural crime strategy and the flood resilience taskforce . our plan for farm be support by £ 5 billion , which be the big investment in farm in generation . let we stop the scaremongering , get behind british farming and reverse 14 year of decline . staffordshire be the large dairy - produce county in the midland and across the county we have 9 , 600 people work on farm . four hundred and thirty - two of those farm be in my constituency , and they be an incredibly important part of the fabric of the area . so many of my constituent who listen to the Budget be genuinely shocked . they be shock because they take it at face value when the Labour party say that there would not be any change in inheritance tax for agricultural land . they listen and they believe . I know — I always like to believe the very good of people — that the Ministers on the Front Bench from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs would have fight for that position , but this policy be a diktat from the Treasury . in my experience , there be a tendency for the Treasury to do that to many Departments . that diktat have mean a change in position , and one that have a severe impact on many people ' s life . if there be a factory in Staffordshire employ 9 , 600 people and its future viability be in jeopardy , Ministers would be rally to its support . member across the House would be say , " let we do something to save these job and save these livelihood . " but that be not the case here . will the right hon . member give way ? I will , of course , give the hon . Gentleman the opportunity to burnish his potential to be that parliamentary private Secretary in DEFRA that I know he be so desperate for on any occasion . why be the right hon . member so dismissive of DEFRA , which be a fine Department whose work those of we who believe in the countryside value ? I wonder why he be not so loud when 875 agribusinesse in his region close in the last 14 year . all the while I have be a Member of Parliament , I have fight for my farmer , and I will continue to do so . I invite the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs to the next Staffordshire agricultural show as my guest . I will happily take he around , and he can look for farmer who be in favour of the Government ' s policy . he can talk to my farmer . there be 446 farmer in the Stafford constituency , which neighbour my own , who I imagine will have a very similar view to that of farmer in my constituency : that this policy will put they out of business . if I take the Minister around the Staffordshire agricultural show , he might meet some of the 351 farmer from the neighbour Lichfield constituency . let he see how many of they believe that his policy will help they to grow their business . a family business , whether it be a farm or a manufacturing business , invest not just for five year but for a generation and more . the Government ' s policy will drive large financial institution to own much more of our land — not local farmer who be invest in the community and care about the village and town that serve they . this policy be already have an impact . many business that supply farmer be already see a significant drop - off in order , whether it be people who supply agricultural machinery , people who supply seed or many more . I urge the Minister , who I believe come to this House with a good heart , to look at the wide impact that the policy will have on our countryside , and at how it can be change and improve . the Labour party say that it want to capture the large landowner — the James Dysons . I have a great deal of confidence that such people will be able to find different arrangement that mean that their wealth will never be touch , but many small farmer , who have work hard all their life to build something that they can hand on to their child , will be impact . I fear for they , and I urge the Government to put the dogma of party politic to one side and really think of the impact that the policy will have on the life of so many farmer who be try to do the right thing for this country and our countryside . I thank the farmer who visit I in the House for the good and respectful conversation that we have . I reflect their concern to Ministers , and will continue to do so . the Conservative Government trash our economy . mortgage rate go up , interest rate go up , price go up , and taxis on work people , include farm worker , go up . the conservative party smash public service , with unprecedented and often unnecessary cut to the service that our country rely on , include farmer — our road pothole ; GP surgery under - resource ; a lack of mental health provision ; school struggle , sometimes crumble ; housing unaffordable , especially in rural area . I could go on . the Conservatives dash the hope of farmer when they be in government . they try to sell out farmer with their trade deal , often gleeful about cheap import or hint at support for chemically treat or hormone - inject meat . they give farmer the chaos of delayed stop - start support scheme ; cut to the police , include rural policing ; neglect of flooding in rural area ; and the incompetence of not even manage to spend £ 300 million that they have not manage to cut . now the Conservatives speak — perhaps exaggeratedly — about the impact of this Government ' s plan . where be their outrage when 12 , 000 farmer and agribusiness be force out of business from 2010 onwards , or when service be be cut by their government ? they be unabashed in their defence of the status quo on inheritance tax , which mean that they be content to see the top 7 % of the wealthy claimant account for 40 % of the total value of APR , cost the taxpayer £ 219 million . they be unashamed in their overall position on a Budget that , as a result of the tough decision take by my right hon . friend the Chancellor , have provide £ 5 billion to the farming budget over two year , the large ever budget for sustainable food production , £ 60 million for farmer affect by last winter ' s wet weather and £ 208 million to protect against future disease . contrary to some recent campaigning , Labour be invest in british farming . equally , the Government ' s Budget be invest in our entire nation — in our economy and our public service — and we will build the growth and prosperity that we all rely on . we have make our decision ; now Opposition Members , especially Conservative Members , must justify why they continue to support the status quo , why they oppose our Budget with its funding for farming , and why they rail against our Budget ' s investment in the economy . if they oppose this , they owe it to people outside this House to say which taxis they would increase , which public service they would cut and how much they would increase borrow by . when the hon . Member consider how much money will be raise by the family farm tax , how many hundredth of a percent be it against total annual government spending ? the hon . member will not be surprised to hear that I do not have that precise detail to hand . to those who trash our economy , who smash our public service , who dash the hope of farmer over 14 year , who be unabashed in their defence of the status quo and who refuse to set out a credible alternative to our Budget , I say we will decline their advice today . I urge hon . member across the House to do the same . it be a privilege to contribute to the debate . I represent Salisbury and south Wiltshire , which have a large number of farmer . a large number of they visit I here in the House of Commons and , a week later , I have the large meeting of farmer I have ever have in Salisbury . they be gravely disappointed and concerned about the implication of this Budget measure . it be a shock , because it be widely expect that this measure would not be on the table when the Labour Government come in . one of the great privilege of my career be to spend most of the past eight year — six and a half of they — in the Treasury in various role . I be pps to a Chancellor , Philip Hammond , and then I be Economic Secretary and Chief Secretary . I understand the dynamic between spend Departments and the Treasury in the run - up to a Budget , and I have a serious degree of sympathy for the Ministers who be in DEFRA in the run - up to this Budget , but when APR and BPR be put on the table in front of I and my ministerial colleague at numerous point during our time in the Treasury , we say no . I acknowledge — I be try to be as reason and as reasonable as I can — that other choice would have have to be make , and I recognise the difficulty of those choice . we face difficulty when we come into government in 2010 with a 10 % deficit . this Government have a different set of challenge , although I would dispute some of the number . however , I want to keep my remark focus on the measure at hand . the reason I would never have want to progress the removal of APR and BPR be that that policy be the product of a technical desktop economist ' s view of tax raising . it be not an option when one take into account the reality of what would actually happen to the rural economy and the implication for farming . a number of colleague have rehearse excellent example where farm of quite modest size but serious capital value would be massively compromise by that policy , even with an opportunity to repay that inheritance tax interest - free over 10 year , as the Chancellor say to the Select Committee . I acknowledge that — it be standard practice for this sort of relief — but give the profitability of the typical farm , it be just not a realistic prospect . I have have some dealing in the past with the farming Minister , the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , and I genuinely have a great deal of respect for he — I do not want to embarrass he by say anything more . he have a large number of issue to deal with , and I think all of we in this House want to see some clarity around the land use framework , and how we reconcile the question of where we build more home with the challenge of renewable energy . however , we have to keep in focus the core function of our farmer , which be to produce food . I recognise the point make in an intervention early , and I be not suggest that the Government be go to say , " we be go to have solar farm everywhere , " but we do need to have a coherent farming policy as a whole and a land use strategy that people understand . the issue with this policy be that it be go to decimate the number of family farm unless there be a significant increase in threshold , there be an age limit on when the policy apply , or an alternative tax mechanism like business asset roll - over relief be examine by the Treasury . unless those change happen — and there be time to consider those change before the legislation come before this House , which will probably be at the end of next year — we in this country be go to be in real trouble with the legacy of this decision . I urge the Minister ' s colleague in the Treasury to think again and come back with well proposal for their colleague . I come here today to speak up for upland farmer in my constituency . although I be not a farmer myself , I grow up within smelling distance of a dairy farm , and come from a work background , I have earn a living work outdoors in all weather as a gardener , so I know what it feel like to have mud on my boot and frozen finger . for a lot of our farmer , though , the physical strain be only part of the daily struggle ; the other part be the anxiety of have so much invest in such a precarious business , and the burden of responsibility for keep the farm alive in an era of shrink profit . because farmer be work people who deserve secure livelihood , and because food security be essential for our national security , I hold quarterly forum with the farmer in my area — I say that before anyone try to intervene to ask I how many I meet with . I hold regular forum and , in fact , some of our council candidate be local sheep and cattle farmer . of course , I have meet with they more in the last few week than I have be do . in the meantime , I be have conversation with fellow mp and with DEFRA and Treasury official and Ministers to push for the issue that matter to farmer in our area . as such , when I go to the Bill Office last night to receive the motion for today ' s debate , I be genuinely unsure how I would vote . I read it with an open mind , but when I see it , I think , " what a load of tripe . " by the way , I thank the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) for take a much more constructive tone in his speech a moment ago . the opposition could have come to the Chamber today and present a constructive motion that many rural mp on the Government back Benches would have sympathise with . instead , this motion seem calibrate to make we want to oppose it . it seem to I that the opposition be more interested in play party politic and cosplaying as the friend of farmer with this motion than they be in genuinely address issue that they both ignore in government and be now ignore in opposition . some legitimate concern about the policy have be express to I by farmer in my constituency . by the way , many farmer in my constituency sympathise with its aim and with what the Government be try to achieve . one tell I recently that he can not stand the James Dysons of this world who be hoover up agricultural land . however , they be concerned that there remain a tax incentive to invest in agricultural land , and I would be grateful if the Treasury report on some of that modelling . for example , we know that 7 % of wealthy claimant account for 40 % of the cost of APR , but that mean that 93 % be cost only £ 382 million . it would be interesting to know how much money it would cost to slightly lift the threshold or to address the concern about life insurance . rise — I will not take any intervention , but only because other colleague want to get in . there be concern , but I must say that when I meet farmer in my constituency recently , they agree with I that a big concern for they , as many colleague have say , be profitability . the motion could have talk about economic stability for low inflation and interest rate , and it could have talk about cut rural crime , which would also cut insurance premium . if I may say so , I welcome the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 from the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , but there need to be secondary legislation . I agree . thank you . let we work together . I be pleased that the Government be defend against flood and disease . I be pleased that we be committed to protect standard in trade deal . I be pleased that we be committed to get a veterinary agreement with the EU to cut red tape . I be pleased with the public sector procurement target . however , we need to do something on rule about food labelling in order to prevent " farmwashing . " we also need to do more to strengthen farmer ' bargaining power with supermarket . I be pleased with the change to plan law that will allow a lot of farmer to invest . I would just say to my own party and to the Government that we need to bring these forward fast . farm in my constituency be on life support . there be , in fact , good will towards this Government and what we be try to do , but we can not afford to wait another 18 month , particularly for the basic payment scheme transition . we need upland farmer to be able to access the sustainable farming incentive . I know the sfi be in the pipeline , but they can not wait 18 month to receive they . rise — order . member will be aware that I be start the wind - up at 4 . 40 pm precisely . for the last few minute , I call Lewis Cocking . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . Broxbourne be not know for its farm , but this year ' s boundary change have see my agricultural land increase . this tax will also affect thousand of my constituent through the supply chain and buy food at supermarket . however , I want to concentrate on something we keep hear from Labour Members . we be tell that the farmer represent by Opposition mp or conservative mp be completely against the policy , and we be tell time and again by Labour Members , as a number have stand up to say today , that they have speak to their farmer , who seem happy about it , and they be go to vote with the Government . so I think I would go out there and put that to the test . as I have say , my seat have have boundary change and farm have move into my constituency . if this one farm have remain in the original seat before the general election , it would now be represent by a Labour Member , but it be not : it move into my constituency and it be represent by a Conservative Member . I ask this farmer , when I go to visit they , if they be completely against this policy . they say , " yep , absolutely , Lewis . this will destroy our family farm . " I ask they if , pre - boundary change , they be in their old seat and have a Labour Member of Parliament , their view would still be the same . they say to I , " Don ' t be so silly , Lewis ; of course it would be the same . " so I do not understand which farmer Labour Members be speak to , because their view can not be different from the view of my farmer . thousand of they from across the country , include my constituency and the wide Hertfordshire area , come to Westminster to show their displeasure with the Government , so will Labour member please think again , vote with we today and stand up for their farmer ? I call the shadow Minister . this morning , ordinary farming family across all four corner of our United Kingdom will be wake up to another day of hard graft . if it be anything like my upbringing , the kid will be out early help their parent feed the livestock , dad might be milk the cow or perhaps out crop - walk with the agronomist , rightly concerned about the impact of recent wet weather , and mum will no doubt be battle the element , keep the whole operation run smoothly and somehow still find time to make sure everyone have their wellie on the right foot . anyone with experience of rural life understand all too well the constant struggle of keep a family farm afloat . it be tough work — long hour , barely any room to breathe and a financial struggle for many . as I have say many time in this House , our farming family be not multimillionaire ; many will be strive to make a profit , but a lot of our family will not be , with many of our farmer earn less than the minimum wage . but today these farmer will also be wake up with the crush reality that they now face lose everything they have ever work for — everything that their mum or dad or the generation before they work for — all because of this Labour Government ' s disastrous farm tax . I have speak to hundred of farmer in the day since the Budget , as have the shadow Secretary of State and many colleague sit behind I , and we have learn that Labour ' s catastrophic Budget really be an anxiety that very few farmer be ready for . we have hear about many of their concern in the debate . my hon . friend the Member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) speak about those , such as Ross in her constituency , who may have ill health and other challenging circumstance , who do not have time to plan . my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) talk about farming accountant raise incredibly distressing call from farmer . my hon . friend the Member for Bridlington and the Wolds ( Charlie Dewhirst ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) raise the impact on the wide rural economy and the whole of the UK production sector . my hon . friend the Member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) and my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) rightly mention the challenge the whole Budget will have on our farming , include the dire consequence of employer national insurance . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) and for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) rightly highlight the concern of family farm that will have be in the family for many generation face be split up . my hon . friend the Member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) rightly challenge the Government ' s own datum and figure and lack of understanding of value . but the core issue be that this be all about trust . before the general election , Labour look our farmer in the eye and tell they continually that there would be no change to inheritance tax . indeed , the hon . member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) even at a husting before the general election classify this as conservative scaremongering , and many Labour mp now sit opposite proudly stand with placard say they would back british farming . yet here we be , 35 day after Labour introduce the family farm tax and 15 day after thousand of family farmer rally in London , and there be not a shred of contrition from the Ministers sit opposite — not even the slight bit of empathy for those ordinary farming family who know the value of their business and who have look at the detail and have be hit hard by Labour ' s family farm tax — and that be because their level of arrogance be stark , as we have see in this debate . the hon . member for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) , for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) and for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) could not even mention one farmer in their constituency who support this policy . the hon . member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) seem to be convince that this will impact only the wealthy . the hon . member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) , who I believe be not in his place , and the hon . member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) both say they have engage with their farmer and hear their view , but then fail to mention anything in support of scrap labour ' s disastrous family farm tax . no wonder their farmer be up in arm . the hon . member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) turn up but fail to mention anything about inheritance tax relief . and the hon . member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) rightly highlight Labour ' s broken promise . I pay tribute to he for mention it , but will he have the courage to commit , to back our farmer and to vote with we for scrap Labour ' s family farm tax ? the hon . member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) speak , make no reference at all to inheritance tax , but do mention the Budget . I can tell he that after the Budget , in one single week end 8 November , 1 , 022 company file to shut down . I also point out that we see 1 . 1 million more business between 2010 and 2023 . the NFU , the CLA , the TFA and farming organisation up and down the UK say that Labour ' s Budget will tear apart british farming , UK food production and our domestic food security agenda . the Central Association of Agricultural Valuers , whose member ' job it be to determine the value of farm , say that the Government have get their figure completely wrong . those very same tax expert who the farming Minister roll out in defence of this policy just a few week ago have now go on to criticise it . the Government be look incredibly isolated . public support for this policy have be wipe out since it be announce , leave Labour mps as its only defender . up to now , they have all fail to publicly call out our city - dwell Prime Minister and Chancellor ' s callous Budget . now , we have even have the Exchequer Secretary , the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) be wheel out to open this debate , as the Government ' s last remain hope to try to defend this disastrous attack on our farming family . the Government have lose the expert , they have lose the industry and it now seem they have lose their own Secretary of State from the Front Bench — it be great to see that he have just walk into this debate and turn up — and it be weak and embarrassing . the shadow Minister say that Labour member do not know any farmer — I do . I be proudly a sixth - generation farmer ' s daughter . my brother still farm , but for how much long I do not know . my dad die exactly a year ago today . my mum be a partner in the business , and she be now 81 . my brother be not married and he live in a rather lovely farmhouse , but we do not know for how much long that will be . he be worried about his farm . he be worried that he will be the one to close the gate for the very last time . do the shadow Minister agree that we must move to a compromise , a transition and a clawback mechanism ? let we look to incentivise our farmer , rather than this punitive tax . the hon . member highlight the devastating consequence that Labour ' s Budget will have on our family farm . many question remain unanswered , so with the opportunity of Treasury and DEFRA Ministers sit side - by - side , I will put a few to they . first , if this be a unified government , why do the Treasury tell DEFRA about this policy only the night before the Budget ? secondly , why do Ministers not take into account claimant of BPR in the limited dataset they have release ? I be happy to give way to the farming Minister if he want to answer that specific point , because he have not answer it to date . thirdly , why do the Government believe it unnecessary to take into account the size of family farming business when determine the impact of their £ 1 million cap on agricultural property relief and business property relief ? finally , for the sixth time of ask in this place , why have no detailed economic impact assessment for this policy ever be produce ? our position be clear : we back our british farmer , and the conservative party will reverse this family farm tax . that be exactly why we will force this vote today , but we can not do it alone . I therefore conclude by reach out to Labour mp across the Chamber . I know there be some sit behind the Front Bench who have first - hand experience of rural life , who understand the consequence of this family farm tax and who be say in private that the Government have get this terribly wrong . I say to those member that it be not too late to save our farming family from this cruel farm tax and from those faceless multinational corporation that will no doubt sweep up any land that be force to be sell as a result of this policy . it be not too late to join our british farmer , many farming organisation across the UK and the ten of thousand of farmer who be in Whitehall just a few week ago . many Labour Members commit to back british farming before they enter this place , and now be their chance to prove it . british farmer be watch , and Labour mp have a clear choice either to back british farming and scrap this catastrophic tax or to put party politic before the voice of their constituent and farmer . I urge everyone in the House to do the right thing : to put british farmer first and vote against Labour ' s family farm tax . I be grateful for the opportunity to close this debate on the plan reform to agricultural property relief . it have be important to hear from people on all side of the debate and to outline the step that the Government have take to reach the decision on agricultural property relief . the reform to APR be just one of the tough decision that the Government have to take across the board on tax , welfare and spending to plug that £ 22 billion black hole that we inherit from the Conservatives and restore our public service . we have have many contribution to the debate ; I be sorry that I can not respond in detail to all of they . on my side , we start with an excellent account from my hon . friend the Member for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) . my near neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) , speak eloquently about the workforce issue ; it be astonish how rarely they be raise from the conservative Benches , although there be some noble exception . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) and from my hon . friend the Member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , who , along with a number of other , rightly raise issue of profitability in the sector . my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) make the important point that we be not discuss the Finance Bill today . my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) ask why it take Labour member to raise rural crime issue , because anyone who have be out talk to farmer will know that that be their top concern . from my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) we hear a powerful account of the value of rural life . my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) again talk about the national health service . these be the concern of people in rural area . from my hon . friend the Member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) , we hear about rural crime again . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) and from my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) , who rightly outline the Conservatives ' atrocious record over 14 year on public service . finally , my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) rightly dismiss the opposition motion as a load of tripe — although perhaps that be tough on tripe . a huge range of figure and analysis have be quote in the debate so far . I have to say that part of the problem with those figure be that they seem to be about different thing . only one set of figure actually give guidance on this issue , and that be the Treasury figure show that about 500 estate a year will be affect . that be base on the hard datum of the actual claim . it include the impact of apr but also take into account business property relief . I urge some Opposition Members to look at the Chancellor ' s letter to the Chair of the Treasury Committee , which outline all the detail , take into account those personal circumstance , the nil - rate inheritance allowance and the other capital allowance . it be available to all member . those figure , of course , be endorse by the independent Office for Budget Responsibility . rise — rise — Opposition Members have have a lot of time to make their point . I be go to make mine . would Conservative Members have be so interested during the last Parliament ? I remember sit on those opposition Benches hour after hour on the rare occasion when there be rural debate . they have no interest then ; suddenly now . rise — no . I be afraid that the right hon . Gentleman come in late , and if you turn up late , you do not get to speak . [ interruption . ] I recognise the frustration and anxiety be feel by farmer around the country . [ interruption . ] order . I be sure that hon . member want to listen to the Minister . I know that my constituent certainly do , and farmer across the country certainly will . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be not sure that conservative Members do want to listen , really . as a result of the anxiety that we know people be feel , it be right that the Prime Minister , the Environment Secretary and I have all meet with the NFU president Tom Bradshaw to talk about the propose reform . the Government have and will continue to engage with the NFU , the CLA , the Tenant Farmers Association and other stakeholder . the reform will not be introduce until April 2026 , so there be plenty of time for people to plan for change and to get , as they always should when run major business , professional advice about succession planning . let we be honest : last month ' s protest be not just about APR . rural community have feel ignore and let down by this place after decade of failure . the Conservatives sell out british farmer in trade deal with New Zealand and Australia . I listen to the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) — do we get any apology for the trade deal ? not a word ; no contrition . they have learn nothing . they leave farmer face spiral energy bill because they refuse to invest in cheap home - grow british power — a decision that send fertiliser and animal feed cost soar . the Conservatives be so incompetent that they fail to get £ 300 million earmark for farmer out the door , leave farmer out of pocket as the money sit idle in Treasury coffer . the disastrous kamikaze Budget crash Britain ' s economy and send interest rate and mortgage skyrocket , at massive cost to our farmer and rural community . as a result of all that , public service be break ; hospital waiting list be at record high ; school in rural area be crumble — if Conservative member use they , of course — and road across country area be cratere with pothole . rural community be rightly feel ignore and leave behind . this government will not accept that . these reform will disincentivise the wealthy from buy up agricultural land to shield their wealth from inheritance tax , and they will also raise the money need to fix those public service . this be a turning point for national renewal . the Budget also commit £ 5 billion to agriculture over the next two year . claim to move the closure ( Standing Order no . 36 ) . question put forthwith , that the question be now put . question agree to . question put accordingly ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the original word stand part of the question . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Nick Timothy James Wild Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Martin McCluskey Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 181 , Noes 339 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the propose word be there add . question agree to . the Deputy Speaker declare the main question , as amend , to be agree to ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) . resolve , that this House thank farmer for their immense contribution to the UK economy and the nation ' s food security ; welcome the Government ' s commitment of £ 5 billion to the farming budget over the next two year , the big budget for sustainable food production and nature recovery in UK history ; acknowledge that the Government be have to make difficult decision to protect farm and farmer in the context of the £ 22 billion fiscal blackhole leave by the previous Government ; recognise that the Government be seek to target Agricultural Property Relief and Business Property Relief to make they fair whilst also fix the public service that everyone rely on ; and note that under the change announce in the Budget around three quarter of claim for Agricultural Property Relief , include those that also claim Business Property Relief , be expect to not pay more Inheritance Tax . Employer National Insurance Contributions I beg to move , that this House regret that increase the rate of employer ' National Insurance contribution ( nic ) to 15 % , and reduce the per - employee threshold at which employer become liable to pay nic on employee ’ earning to £ 5 , 000 , will lead to increase cost for business and low wage for employee , include in particular young people ; will force company to cut employment , lead to some 130 , 000 job loss accord to Bloomberg Economics ; will increase cost for retailer by £ 2 . 3 billion accord to the British Retail Consortium , lead to high price for consumer ; will create an annual additional bill of £ 1 . 4 billion for charitable service provider accord to the National Council for Voluntary Organisations , so they will struggle to maintain support for vulnerable people ; and will increase childcare cost for family ; far regret that the Government have not publish its complete assessment of the effect this policy will have on the public and private sector , or indeed any impact assessment ; and regret also that , as a result of the Government ' s economic policy , GDP forecast be down , inflation be up and business confidence be down . " growth " be the leitmotiv of the Labour party . its member chuntere on about it during the run - up to the last general election , and in their manifesto , under the heading " kickstart economic growth " , they say that they would secure the high sustained growth in the G7 . they also say — and I know that you like a good joke , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I would ask you to contain yourself — that they would forge a " new partnership with business to boost growth everywhere " . give what have happen , those be fantastical statement . read Labour ' s manifesto be somewhat like step through the look glass . it have something of Lewis Carroll about it . this lot be less the Prime Minister and the Chancellor than the Walrus and the Carpenter , cruelly lead business to their demise . for all the fantasy in the manifesto , they might just as well have speak " of shoe — and ship — and seal - wax — of cabbage — and king — and why the sea be boil hot — and whether pig have wing . " because what happen to growth ? the Office for Budget Responsibility tell we that the Budget will lead to less growth across the forecast period than be the case back in the spring under the last government . the Office for National Statistics tell we in the third - quarter GDP datum that the economy grow by 0 . 1 % — one seventh of the growth in the United States . in the third month of that quarter , which be September , growth be actually negative . that be the record of this Government . the right hon . Gentleman talk about the OBR figure , but he fail to mention that his party mislead the OBR to the extent that it have to put the failure in writing . give that he be talk about Lewis Carroll , be it not true to say that the figure that the OBR be work with be more likely to have be receive from the mad Hatter ? that be an amusing intervention , but it be thoroughly inaccurate , I be afraid . the OBR do indeed look into the suggestion that there be a black hole of £ 22 billion , and what do it conclude ? it conclude that the fiscal pressure in that year be less than half that amount . the OBR readily accept that have it have discussion with Treasury official about that at the time , it may well have reduce the amount still far . member from across the House know that it be not unusual for the Treasury to manage down in - year fiscal pressure as a matter of course , so the argument have be debunk . it be the dead parrot . it be push up the daisy . it be no more . the hon . Gentleman ' s point be indicative of what this Government have do : they have talk down the UK economy . in turn , business confidence have slump in a way seldom see in our history , with purchasing manager index survey fall through the floor . we have see the Institute of Directors ’ optimism tracker score minus 60 in November — one would have to go back to April 2020 to find a low score than that . we also know that at the centre of the Budget be the big break promise of all : the increase in employer ' s national insurance contribution . that be weigh on growth . and what of job ? labour ' s fantastical manifesto talk about job creation , which be mention several time , but the Government be destroy job by break a manifesto commitment . it be there in black and white in their manifesto that they would not raise national insurance . do not take my word that they breach their manifesto ; take that of Paul Johnson of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , who say precisely the same . the right hon . member refer to broken manifesto pledge . the Conservatives ' 2019 manifesto say they would not raise national insurance , yet three year later he and all his colleague vote to raise national insurance — not just on employee , but on employer . can he help we with that process of logic ? I think the hon . Gentleman might just be overlook a little something call covid , which shrink the UK economy by over 10 % overnight . what this Government have do be take we right back to the 1970 when it come to the jaw - drop level of tax increase and spend splurge . the impact on job be stark , and it be clear . the OBR say there will be 50 , 000 few full - time equivalent job as a result of the measure in the Budget . Bloomberg say that 130 , 000 job will be destroy . the Confederation of British Industry , in a survey of its membership , say that 50 % of business report that they will cut employment as a consequence of the Budget , and two third say that they will row back on the recruitment plan that they previously have . it be not just about the headline rate ; the threshold be so pertinent and important here . it be bear down on sector where wage be low , and on cohort in the labour market who earn the least , because of the disproportionate impact of lower the threshold . they include hospitality , leisure , retail and woman . some of the young people in our country will now see their job take away from they as a consequence of what this Government be do . we know that the Labour party have form when it come to youth unemployment . under the last Labour Government , youth unemployment increase by over 40 % . under the last Conservative Government , it reduce by over 40 % . Labour say in this fantastical document that it would keep inflation as low as possible . it say the same of mortgage , and yet what have happen ? this fiscal splurge , this £ 70 billion each year that the Government be now go to be spend , will mean high inflation in every single year of the forecast , compare with the forecast back in the spring . what be that do to people ' s living standard ? it be destroy they , and I will come to that momentarily . part of the inflationary pressure be the national insurance increase itself , because while we know that , accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility , about 80 % of it will be transfer into low employment rate and depressed wage , about 20 % of it will go into high price . and what of living standard ? this fantastical Lewis Carroll document say that Labour would be make everybody , not just the few , well off . however , the Joseph Rowntree Foundation — hardly a right - wing thinktank — say that by October 2029 , the average family will be £ 770 bad off in real term than they be today . we on this side of the House will not take lecture on living standard from the party that leave we with the bad squeeze on wage since Napoleon , the high energy price in the G7 and the high inflation . the Conservatives leave we with the worst - insulate home and dependent on natural gas . that be why this party will invest in insulation to make we all well off in the long run . I be surprised that the hon . Gentleman raise the inheritance that his party have receive from the Conservatives . we have the high rate of growth in the G7 . we have bring inflation right down from 11 . 1 % in October 2022 to 2 % — bang on target — at the time of the general election . we have a near - record level of employment . we have a near - record low level of unemployment . we have real wage that have be increase month after month for 13 or 14 month prior to the general election . that be not a bad inheritance . I be grateful to the shadow Chancellor for give way , even if I can not quite believe what I be hear . anyone boast about the economic record of the previous Government , particularly in the immediate run - up to the last election , should read this week ' s release from the Office for National Statistics on the reweighte labour force survey . it show that productivity in the year run up to the election fall by 0 . 9 % . that be in just one year . that be what economic failure look like . no matter what point the hon . Gentleman may make , I be afraid he can not get away from the fact that this Government be bear down on growth , press up on unemployment , bear down on employment and bear down on living standard . the OBR also say that real household disposable income by 2029 will be 1 . 25 % low than it be back in the spring , at the time of that forecast . we know the impact that national insurance be go to have on wage . it will press they down and it will far diminish living standard . do my right hon . friend the shadow Chancellor remember any Labour MP in the last general election standing on a fully cost manifesto that would mean economic growth be forecast to be low than under the previous government ? perhaps the hon . member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) should remember that Labour mp stand on a manifesto that be apparently fully cost but then have different commitment . we have a fast rate of growth under the last Government than be project under this Government . the simple fact be that , at the time of the general election , we have the fast - grow economy in the G7 . the simple fact be that the labour manifesto say it would deliver precisely that , yet we have hear very little about that commitment in recent day and week — I wonder why . do my right hon . friend agree that it be important to set the fact right ? it be important to reflect on the fact that , during our 14 year in government — despite the 2008 – 09 financial crisis , despite the pandemic and despite the energy crisis — more than 1 million job be create , and 4 million people be in employment who be not in employment when we take office . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . our record on employment show that we be a job - create machine after 2010 , and the statistic he cite be quite right . when it come to business — this be a killer worthy of a stand - up comedy routine — the manifesto say : " labour will … support business through a stable policy environment " . of course , we know that all sort of business have be hit by this tax increase , include many that directly support our public service : our hospice , our GPs and our pharmacist . Marie Curie have say that it be about to get a tax bill for an additional £ 3 million . just think of the impact that will have . the question that many be now feverishly and worriedly ask be whether there be more to come . be the Government go to run out of road with their approach to our economy , and will they come back for more ? well , the Chancellor recently tell the CBI that the Government will not be " come back with more borrowing or more taxis . " yet when the Leader of the opposition put this assertion to the Prime Minister at Prime Minister ' s question today , we hear no answer . when I twice ask exactly that question of the Chancellor yesterday , we hear no response . currently , these business do not know whether the Chancellor ' s assertion that there will be no more borrowing and no more taxis be true or false . it sound like the shadow Chancellor be unconvince by the shrill chant of Labour Members that the Government will fix the foundation of the economy , and he have good reason for be suspicious . in October , when the Government have scarcely be in office for three month , they have more in - month borrowing than any UK Government since 1993 , with the exception of one month during covid . do that look like fix the foundation to the shadow Chancellor ? I have hear the hon . Gentleman intervene in various debate , and I be come to the conclusion that he be probably a rather sensible SNP Member , because he be absolutely right . [ interruption . ] I do not opine on how sensible his party be . I just say that he be one of its most sensible member . it be very clear that this Government will not create firm foundation for the economy . they will actually create a vulnerable economy , because there be risk around the central forecast and downside risk around growth , inflation , net migration , economic inactivity , energy price , interest rate and so on . there will also be risk around the spending envelope after the first couple of year , particularly for a profligate Labour Government who may find that constraint unbearable . there be also external risk . we know that there will be a new Government in the United States , and there be talk of tariff . it may be that the deficit financing of tax cut lead to interest rate rise around the world as bond yield increase , and that could be import to our shore . all these thing mean that we need a good level of headroom against our fiscal target , yet , on the stability target , it be quite possible that the headroom have already evaporate . why ? because , to my early point , the Government talk down the UK economy and , partly as a result , be pay more to service the debt that this country carry . I thank the shadow Chancellor for give way ; my interest be pique by his talk of deficit finance tax cut . do he agree with his boss , the Leader of the Opposition , that the Liz Truss mini - Budget , which be the prime example of the thing he criticise , be the right package , but just with the wrong communication ? if the hon . Gentleman have a look at the history of that time , he will see that I be the Chair of the Treasury Committee , and I have a great deal to say about the economic policy that be pursue in the so - call mini - Budget , so I will leave it at that . on that point , will my right hon . friend give way ? how could I not ? my right hon . friend be give a powerful speech . do he share my feeling of pity for the — in some case , distinguished — new Members of Parliament on the Government Benches ? they want to talk again and again about the past , and about what happen as we recover from the pandemic and get through the energy crisis , but not a single one want to defend the appalling employer nic increase , which will take £ 26 billion out of the economy but ultimately provide only about £ 10 billion or £ 11 billion in revenue for public service . it be an extraordinary misstep , be it not ? my right hon . friend be right . they avoid the present and run away from the future , and there be no surprise about why that be the case . rise — I will not give way now . for this Government , support business be like live in a world of fantasy . in " the Walrus and the Carpenter " , it be trust oyster who be lead to their early demise ; with the Prime Minister and the Chancellor , it be business that be trust . as Lewis Carroll might have write the final verse : " ' o business ' , say the Chancellor , ' you ' ve have a pleasant run ! shall we be trot home again ? ' but answer come there none — and this be scarcely odd , because she ' d finish off every one . " that leave just the conservative party stand up for business in this country . for the work man and woman in this country , we be the party that understand the difference between fantasy and reality . we be the party that know that business need low taxis , not high taxis ; less regulation , not more regulation ; and a Government who be on their side . that be not the Labour party . the shadow Chancellor make a number of interesting point , and I will give he the courtesy of go through a number of they . he talk about how this government be risk inflation , when his Government send it spiral to the high level in a generation . he say that Labour Members be talk down the economy , when his government crash it . he say that Conservative Members disagree with the measure in the Budget , specifically in relation to national insurance contribution , but not one alternative option be lay out in his speech . the public have a right to know what his choice would be : would the Conservatives want to increase income tax on worker or vat in the shop , or would they like to increase corporation tax again on business ? would they like to cut ten of billion of pound from public service or borrow more money every single day to pay the bill , or continue to make a black hole in the public finance ? he suggest that the Labour party ' s transparency with the country about the £ 22 billion black hole that the Conservatives leave be not real , but they know that they create it . the soon they say sorry to the country , the soon the public might start listen to they once again . I will finish with a positive comment . the shadow Chancellor say that his party be a " job - create machine " . I be very grateful for the number of former conservative mp they have release into the labour market , give how many vacancy we have fill . in her Budget statement on 30 October , the Chancellor set out the difficult decision that the Government need to take on welfare , spending and tax . those decision be not just difficult but necessary , give the fiscal irresponsibility and economic mismanagement of the conservative party over the past 14 year . I welcome a debate on the choice , as I hear member say from a sedentary position , " choice , choice , choice . " what be yours ? you should set that out to this House and you — [ interruption . ] the party opposite should set they out to the public . order . the Chief Secretary might like to reflect that when he say , " what be yours ? " , it mean , " what be mine ? " they be not my choice . can he please be careful not to use " you " and " yours " ? thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . to be very clear and to correct the record , the conservative party should tell the country what its choice be . I be all ear . the Labour party inherit a mess and we , as a responsible party of government , have need to take measure to fix the public finance , fund the national health service and other public service , and deliver economic stability . we have be determine to take those decision while protect work people , which be our manifesto commitment . that be why the Budget make no change to income tax , the rate of vat or the amount of national insurance work people will pay . as a result of our Budget , people will not see a penny more in tax on their payslip . yet keep those promise while get the country back on track mean tough decision elsewhere in the tax system — choice and decision that we be willing to take . perhaps with the assistance of the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury behind he , the right hon . Gentleman might be able to answer a question that other Treasury Ministers have not be able to : why do the OBR make a correction in table 3 . 2 in chapter 3 ? it be originally suggest that £ 5 . 5 billion would be provide for compensation " to public sector employer and adult social care " . that be then correct to remove any reference to social care and the number be cut by £ 800 million . can the right hon . Gentleman explain what cause the OBR to make that correction and when it be decide that social care be not worth support ? the right hon . Gentleman might in future give I advance notice of specific reference to document so that I can refer to they . I can not tell he about table 3 . 2 in the OBR document because it be not here , but we will of course get an answer to he . he may wish to consider why the OBR say that have the conservative party be more transparent about its time in government , its forecast would have be materially different . the shadow Chancellor be unable to provide an answer to that in response to intervention from colleague from around the House . that inheritance be why , at the Budget , we take the decision to increase national insurance contribution for employer while increase protection for small business and charity . the Government increase the main rate of employer secondary class 1 national insurance contribution from 13 . 8 % to 15 % . rise — I will give way in a second . we have decrease the secondary threshold for employer , which be the threshold above which employer begin to pay employer national insurance contribution on their employee ’ salary , from £ 9 , 100 to £ 5 , 000 . at the same time , we have increase protection for small business by more than double the employment allowance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 . the national insurance hike will impact on small business , which form the backbone of our local economy as fixture on our high street across London and across my Sutton and Cheam constituency , include in Worcester Park and North Cheam . will the right hon . Gentleman join I in recognise that Small Business Saturday be this weekend ? do he agree that the Government might take this opportunity to rethink the national insurance hike and the impact on small business , which will be suffer this week and beyond ? we have factor small business into the design of our policy , in term of both employer national insurance contribution and our commitment to permanent low rate for business rate than be give under the previous Government , as well as other support for the high street . we be also expand eligibility to the employment allowance by remove the £ 100 , 000 eligibility threshold to simplify and reform employer nic so that all eligible employer can now benefit . change to the employment allowance mean that around 250 , 000 employer will see their national insurance contribution liability decrease , and more than 1 million will pay the same or less than they do previously . overall , that mean that more than half of business with NICs liability will either see no change or will gain overall from the package . that design be put in place specifically to protect the small business that the hon . Gentleman raise . that mean that 865 , 000 employer will not pay national insurance at all , enable they , for example , to employ up to four full - time worker on the national living wage and pay no employer nic . employer will also continue to benefit from employer nic relief , include for hire worker age under 21 and apprentice age under 25 . to support veteran , the Government be extend the national insurance contribution relief for employer of qualify veteran for one year to April 2026 , and we have set aside funding to protect the spending power of the public sector , include the national health service , from the direct impact of the change . even after account for the impact of this change , the OBR expect real wage to rise by 3 % between now and the end of the forecast period , but we recognise that there will be impact on employer . while many small business and charity will be protect through employment allowance , other will have to contribute more . there will also be impact beyond business , as the Office for Budget Responsibility have acknowledge . my right hon . friend and I spend many year in opposition , and have speak in many Opposition day debate . do he agree that when the opposition move a motion like today ' s , which say that the Government should not do something without make any alternative suggestion about what they should do , it be a sign that the opposition have not work out their answer to the question ? at some point , I hope that the opposition will be able to help the country and the Government by have some policy , but do he agree that , until they do , the Government will just have to crack on as good they can on their own ? I agree with my hon . friend , and I encourage Opposition Members to put forward proposal . I be all ear . I be willing to listen to they , but so far all we have be opposition and no policy . maybe that will change in the future . the motion claim that the Government have not set out any impact assessment of the policy change , but the Government publish a tax information and impact note on 13 November that explain the Government ' s assessment of the policy , include its impact on business and the economy more widely . this be a difficult choice , and it be not one that we have take lightly , but it be the right choice give the dire economic inheritance that the government face upon take office , and the need to fix our break public service . as the Chancellor set out in the Budget , healthy business depend on a healthy nhs , and a strong economy depend on strong public finance . on the nhs and choice , do the right hon . Gentleman not accept that the Government have choose to clobber organisation and charity such as air ambulance and the hospice movement — the very organisation whose help the Government will need to improve service for the general public ? as we ask yesterday , will he consider an exemption ? as my right hon . friend the Health Secretary have make very clear , when the Labour party come into government the NHS be break . why ? because of action take by the conservative party over the last 14 year . that be why the Government have to take decision to get a grip of the public finance and our public service . the change be necessary in order to draw a line under instability , so that business can plan for the future , and to ensure that the NHS will receive an extra £ 22 . 6 billion to deliver 40 , 000 extra elective appointment a week . that vital new funding will create an nhs that be there when we need it , and the Government will achieve that within our tough fiscal rule — rule that will bring an end to borrow for day - to - day spending , which be completely out of control when the conservative party be in government . Madam Deputy Speaker , you might think that , have call for high NHS spending over the weekend , the opposition would recognise the need to take tough but necessary decision on the public finance in order to pay for it , but it seem from the speech of the shadow Chancellor that that be not the case . perhaps the opposition might take the opportunity today to explain how they will raise the £ 25 billion that the change provide for , but which they will not support . how else do they intend to pay for the new appointment and well service that the funding offer ? what tough decision would they make to repair the public finance and put our economy on a sustainable footing ? the opposition ' s double standard on this issue only go to show why they be not trust on the economy : they have give up any pretence of fiscal responsibility . we recognise that the decision to increase employer national insurance will have impact . although the change to employment allowance will help to protect small business and charity , other measure mean that large business and organisation will have to make difficult decision . however , as the Chancellor set out , this be a once - in - a - generation Budget . the difficult decision we take mean that we be able to wipe the slate clean from the previous Government ' s economic and fiscal mismanagement . public service will now need to live within their mean on the budget we have set for they for the rest of this Parliament . the Budget deliver economic stability and fiscal responsibility so that we can take the step necessary to boost investment , fix our public service and grow the economy . that fiscal responsibility be only possible when government be willing to take tough decision . this government will not shy away from those tough decision and will do what be right to fix the foundation of our economy , despite the dire inheritance leave by the Conservatives . the shadow Chancellor say we be hide in the past and not face the future . I say to he : we be run to the future , deal with the challenge and deliver for the british people . rise — order . there will be a five - minute time limit from the outset — obviously not include the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . I call Daisy Cooper . on 23 October , at Deputy Prime Minister ' s question , I warn the Government that an increase in national insurance contribution would impact not only million of small business but social care provider . that be a week before the Budget . here we be , six week on from that exchange , and we be still talk about the impact of those change . the reason be that the unintended consequence be huge . we all know the Government have receive a terrible inheritance from the Conservatives . the Conservatives flatline our economy , blow a hole in the public finance and leave public service on their knee . in the wake of the Conservative Government , there be a litany of broken promise . they promise to recruit 6 , 000 GPs , and they do not . they promise to fix social care for good , and they do not . every single year since 2015 , they fail to meet their 62 - day cancer treatment target . I have huge sympathy for the fact that the Labour Government need and want to invest in our nhs and care . however , I be concern about the indiscriminate impact of the change to national insurance contribution . [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] you ' ve hear this before — come on . not only will the change undermine growth , they will undermine the effort to get the nhs and care back on their foot . over the past six week , all of we have hear concern about the impact the change will have on GPs , dentist , pharmacist and social care provider — all critical organisation to get the nhs and care service back on their foot . we have hear about the impact on the early year sector . I be concern the change will drive up the cost of childcare when we should be drive it down to help parent get back to work . over the past few week , I have raise example from my constituency of the impact the change will have , include on Citizens Advice , which give advice to some of the most vulnerable people ; Hightown Housing Association provide social home ; Quantum Care , a social care provider ; Rennie Grove Peace Hospice Care ; the Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire local medical committee represent GPs ; dj play ; and Ye Olde Fighting Cocks , the old pub in England . we know small business be the engine of our economy and backbone of our community . I be glad to hear that Liberal Democrats support the extra money for the health service , special need education and social care . I apologise for my impatience , because I be sure the hon . member be just about to get there , but can she tell we where the £ 25 billion should come from if not from this national insurance rise ? I welcome that intervention . in the debate on the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill yesterday , I address that question head on . I will try to remember my note , which be sit with Hansard . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that the OBR have say the £ 26 billion be actually reduce to £ 10 billion when behavioural change and rebate to the NHS and care be factor in . on raise that £ 10 billion , we have say we would reverse the tax cut that the Conservatives give to the big bank , raise £ 4 billion . we could raise a furth £ 3 billion by increase the remote gaming duty and the digital service bill . we set out proposal in our manifesto to reform capital gain tax in a different way from the Government . our measure would have raise about £ 5 billion , so unlike the Conservatives — who do not set out the impact of the £ 10 billion to £ 20 billion of cut that , base on their manifesto , would have be inevitable — we as a constructive opposition have set out suggestion . I urge Labour Members to take up our idea , if not in this Budget then certainly in the next . we be approach Small Business Saturday , when I be sure we will all be in our constituency talk to small business owner . we know that small business be the engine of our economy and the backbone of our community , and in many case , they make our high street what they be . when it come to health and care business , though , I be concerned that this measure take with one hand and give back with another , but with no guarantee that the money that come back will cover the cost . as such , I urge the Government to rethink these change to national insurance contribution , but if they do not , I urge they at the very least to exclude health and care provider from these measure . the economic argument in this debate will be well cover by other member , so I would like to make a brief point about choice and political leadership — about have argument , rather than duck they . for a decade , as low growth place an ever - great burden on the public finance , Conservative Members fiddle and fudge , choose stealth taxis such as fiscal drag that they hope nobody would notice . between 2010 and 2021 , Conservative Governments introduce 1 , 651 tax change . they change vehicle excise duty 258 time and alcohol duty 125 time . the last Parliament see the large set of tax rise since the second world war , leave the tax burden at a third of national income . when a government be frightened of their own shadow , as well as their own divide back Benches , it be easy to fudge and fiddle than to face up to hard choice . conservative Members lack the courage and unity to tackle the great problem this great nation face , but not we — not this Government . when we see something fundamental that require courage and leadership to address , we square up to it and confront it . that be why we immediately undo the fiddle and fudge , end the freeze on income tax that have burden work people in this country . it be why we end the hidden theft of money from work people and fix the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme , and it be why we boost HMRC compliance , because there be no point in create a tax behemoth that can not be enforce . it be also why we make a big , clear choice to close the gape hole in the public finance leave by Conservative Members . Britain ' s economy have run a tight labour market alongside stagnant productivity growth for decade . in that context , national insurance rise be a sensible , balanced and transparent way to incentivise business investment that will boost productivity while fill the £ 22 billion black hole . that be what courage look like : square up to the challenge our country face , instead of run scared and leave work people to pay the price . we have front up to set this great country back on a secure path . if the opposition wish to show the nation that they be a responsible party ready to govern this great country , they must have the courage to tell we whether they would scrap this measure , and if not , which of the challenge we face they wish to ignore . do they want to cut off the electrification of the Wigan - Bolton train line ? do they want to get rid of the expert work with the Wrightington , Wigan and Leigh NHS trust in my constituency to bring down waiting list ? perhaps they want to cut back once again on the neighbourhood police officer who we be get back on our street , or perhaps they want to cut the £ 150 million investment in Border Security Command . I do not think so . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) . I rise to speak in favour of the motion on the Order Paper in the name of the Leader of the Opposition . I do not rise to speak in this House because I think the Labour party ' s Budget be vindictive , but I do think that the national insurance rise we be debate today be a proposal that run right through the Labour party ' s DNA . labour drive down growth , when growth should be the no . 1 priority for public service . it tax the wealth creator and the small business , it borrow and make the economic situation bad , and it be always the conservative party that have to pick up the piece after Labour have target the poor people and small business in our society and make they suffer . ultimately , the lack of growth that the Labour party and every Labour Member have sign up to means that public service will suffer , few job will be create and more business will close . I gently say to the Chief Secretary that he challenge we repeatedly to outline what we would do instead of this measure to make sure that we can fund public service , and I will tell he a few thing that we would not do . [ interruption . ] well , I will tell he in a minute , and he can intervene and elaborate , and I will get an extra minute . as he ask I what we would do , I will tell he : we would increase growth , as be outline by the OBR . we would have growth , and high growth than this Government be propose . however , what we would not be do be borrow as much as he and spend £ 9 billion on public sector pay rise for his trade union paymaster , fund from borrow . those be the thing we would not do . the hon . Member tell the House that he would go for growth . how do that go when his party try it last time ? I simply say — and the Chief Secretary should know this because he supposedly write the Budget that we vote on a couple of week ago — that growth forecast be high under the last Government than those of the Government for whom he be now lead in the Treasury . I say to the Government that business confidence be at the low it have be for year . the hon . Member have raise the issue of business confidence , which I have hear a few time from Opposition Members . that leave I ponder why , if business be so confident under the previous Government , we have the low private sector business investment in the entire g7 , and the only country in the OECD that see low level of private investment be Greece . I know the hon . Gentleman like to pride himself on be the oracle of economics when he lead a think - tank , but if he look at the bare fact of business confidence out there , he will see that it have be low under the five month of the Labour Government than it ever be under the 14 year of the Conservative Government . I want to mention some of the impact that this measure will have on my constituency of Hamble Valley . there be 4 , 000 people employ in the hospitality sector in my constituency . just last night , a business leader — a small business leader who own three local venue — outline to I that , because of the measure this Government have bring forward , he now have to find 5 % extra of his total turnover to pay his taxis . that lead to a number of option : he can reduce staff count , mean high unemployment in my constituency and nationally ; he can close venue , which again mean low employment and the death of our town centre — in every constituency , I remind member — or he have to choose between not hire local staff and stop expansion , as every extra person he want to take on will cost the business an extra £ 800 because of this national insurance contribution rise . that choice be face business up and down the country , with low growth , high bureaucracy and high taxis on the people who create job and wealth in every constituency in this country and drive the economy that we need to fund public service . what be most damaging about the Government ' s proposal be the catastrophic impact it will have on charity across this country . I defy any Labour MP to stand up in this Chamber and say that they be willing to bring in and happy to vote for a measure that will mean frontline service deliver through our charitable sector be cut . there be other option the Government can take , and they have choose not to . rise — I be not give way . [ interruption . ] well , I do not have time . let we look at the hospice sector . many Labour Members probably hope that the parachute lead have be cut , but I raise £ 10 , 000 by jump out of an aeroplane for the Mountbatten hospice in my constituency . some 70 % of its income be from charitable donation , and 24 % of its income be deliver by the national health service . at no time when this Minister or any other Minister have stand up in this House have they apologise to the hospice sector for the cut in service that will have to be deliver because of this measure . Mountbatten will have to find an extra £ 1 million in income just because of this measure , and that mean more hospital bed be use by people who be unable to access hospice service . ultimately , the NHS will be in further crisis because of the short - term measure this Government be take through . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I like the hon . Gentleman , so I will give way . I thank the hon . Gentleman . I be look at some research the other day that show that parachute jump end up cost the NHS more money because of the risk of injury than they raise for the charity concern . do he agree that , rather than parachute jump , what our NHS need be the £ 22 . 6 billion investment that have be raise by the Budget ? the last Government give the high amount of investment into the national health service ever . I happen to jump out of a plane because I be very keen to do so , as I be a bit of a thrill seeker but also because I want to raise money for a good charity . if the hon . gentleman vote for the Government measure or against the motion this evening , he will be ensure that hospice across this country be unable to deliver the service they want to deliver and , as homelessness charity have say , that £ 50 million to £ 60 million will be take out of frontline service . that will be the impact of this measure . charity across this country be go to suffer under this Government ' s proposal , as will hospital and wealth creator , and I say to every member who vote against this motion to protect frontline service that their constituent will be watch . we should not be surprised that , five month after take office , the Labour party have revert to type : tax the most vulnerable , tax small business and borrow on the public purse ; with poor public service out there and low growth go forward . I can not wait for its defeat at the next election and we fix the problem . after inherit the ruin of 14 year of conservative failure , this Government have have to make tough decision to balance the book . I love the originality . and I will keep it come until the right hon . Gentleman get the message . after 14 year of work people foot the Bill , this Government be choose to spread the load in as fair a way as possible . in the spirit of build an economy drive by collaboration between productive worker and thriving business , a balance have to be strike . while we be ask employer to contribute more , this do of course come with protection for small business . while employer national insurance contribution will increase by 1 . 2 % , this Government be choose to protect the small business by increase the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 and expand this to all eligible employer . let we therefore stop the politically expedient outrage and check the real - life impact . change to the employment allowance mean that the Office for Budget Responsibility expect that 250 , 000 employer will gain and an additional 820 , 000 will see no change . we have also commit to provide support for public sector employer for additional employer cost . this also mean that , unlike the previous Government , who give we the high tax burden since the second world war , Labour be able not to ask for a penny more out of worker ' pay packet . while we must listen to the genuine concern from business , which , like the rest of society , be feel the brunt of 14 year of Tory austerity and decline , I be in no doubt that these decision be the right and necessary one that will fix the foundation of our economy and unlock the funding to rebuild our public service . my hon . friend be talk about fix the foundation and that point be also make by the now absent hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) early in the debate . today be Budget day in the Scottish Parliament , where of course the Scottish Government have a record amount of funding to spend . I just want to share with the House what be say about that Budget by the Fraser of Allander Institute . it say — order . we simply can not have intervention of that length . only nine member be go to get to speak this evening and the hon . Lady be on the list , but those who choose to make long intervention might find themselves remove from it . I totally agree with my hon . friend that this Government be support people across the whole country , include Scotland today , and I really hope the Scottish Government use the money they have be give well . return to the opposition motion , be they also oppose to our country be leave a £ 22 billion black hole by the last government ? where they also oppose to the disastrous Liz Truss mini - Budget , which include £ 45 billion of unfunded tax cut , and which shock the market , crash the pound and skyrocket mortgage rate ? be they also oppose to the last Government ' s spring Budget , which include myriad damage unfunded promise in an attempt to flash the cash at the public ahead of an election ? if they do now oppose all the above , they must agree with I that we have to restore economic stability by fund our pledge . that mean find money , and if it be not through this measure , would they tax work people or make another black hole ? we have to face down the reality of these choice for what they be . it be overwhelmingly clear that the shadow Cabinet , who be exile into opposition this summer , have not learn a single thing . they have make £ 6 . 7 billion in unfunded spending commitment in just four week . at least we can be grateful that they be not in the position to do more damage at the moment . turn to what the fund raise from this measure will do , be the opposition oppose to invest an extra £ 25 . 6 billion to fix the foundation of our NHS or cutting waiting time with 40 , 000 extra elective appointment a week ? the hon . Gentleman talk about the NHS . what do he have to say to pharmacy , which report that his government ' s measure will cost pharmacist £ 50 million , even after take into account the employment allowance ? I say to all member of this House that people have to see these measure in the round . this Budget will support all our business in the long run . be the Opposition now oppose to protect the triple lock , increase carer ' s allowance , freeze fuel duty , pay worker properly and support local council ? be they opposed to boost education funding by £ 6 . 7 billion and hire 6 , 500 extra teacher , who our child desperately need to secure their future ? if they be oppose to those thing , they be not listen to the british public who , in my constituency of Stevenage and in hundred of other seat , vote at the last election for a change from year of conservative chaos . change with Labour will bring a decade of national renewal to fix our public service from the ground up . business can only have the confidence to invest in the UK if we bring stability to the economy , put money into the pocket of customer and develop thrive public service for the workforce that will in turn improve productivity for business . business confidence be demonstrate by the record - break £ 63 billion in investment secure for the UK economy at the international investment summit . under Labour , Britain be open for business . today , the Conservative Opposition be ask we to pretend that we can grow our economy and rebuild our public service without say how it would all be pay for . this Tory Opposition , with their motion today , show that they have learn nothing from 14 year of Tory fantasy economic . the shadow Chancellor bring up fantasy economic , and his party deliver that for 14 year in government . today we have a Labour Government . the country vote against fantasy economic in July , and today I will vote against it too . I will talk in particular about two organisation in my constituency that have contact I about the subject we be debate . for context , we know that small business have have a tough time for a number of year . they have be struggle with rise price , interest rate and input cost go up . they be absolutely hammer by the previous Conservative Government , who break their promise to reform business rate , trap they under a mountain of red tape and make it much hard and more expensive to trade internationally . make thing hard for small business and their worker just be not right . they be the lifeblood of our economy and be exactly where we should be look for the growth we all need . when we be talk about small business , we be also talk about community pharmacy , hospice and GP practice , all of which will be impact by this tax rise . we on the liberal Democrat Benches be particularly worried , as the House would imagine , about the impact of these tax rise on our health and social care sector . we be worried about what it mean for social care provider , for the family who depend on they and for the local council that have to find the funding for many of they . raise the employment allowance will shield only the very small , leave thousand of small organisation still negatively affect . in the Chief Secretary ' s opening remark , he ask for idea about where else he might find some tax revenue . I really encourage he , and indeed all Government Members , to reread the 2024 Lib Dem manifesto — I be sure they have read it at least once . as my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) lay out from our Front Bench , the Government could reverse the tax cut that the previous Government give to the big bank , reform capital gain tax so that it be apply in a much fair way , and charge the gambling giant more so that they pay their fair share . I turn to the two organisation in my constituency . a childcare company get in touch because , like many early year setting , it allocate 70 % of its revenue to staff wage , and annual increase to the national living wage combine with the increase in nic will make it impossible to pay for rent , staff improvement and training . that will just make the staffing crisis bad , which be the exact opposite of what the Government say they want . do my hon . friend agree that business such as Sheppy ' s cider farm in my constituency , to which I invite all member to come to enjoy a pint of cider , will be affect not just by the national insurance rise but by the change in business rate and the family farm tax ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . sadly , I have not yet try the ware of Sheppy ' s cider farm , but I would welcome the opportunity to visit , try those ware and support it as we all need to do in the face of these change , which affect everyone . the second organisation be one of my GP practice , which email I . it operate as a legal partnership , as it have do since the inception of the NHS , but as it be a gp practice it lack flexibility to absorb the increase cost . it can not raise price and it can not do more than it be already do and drive up activity level . as it be designate as a public authority but do not get an employment allowance exemption , it will bear the full cost of the impact . it tell I that the rise in national insurance and the lowering of the threshold will force it into reduction in clinical staffing , adversely impact patient care and increase waiting time . that be exactly the opposite of what the Government say they want . the hon . Lady make that point powerfully . I have speak to a gp surgery in my constituency that will have to cut seven member of staff , include a GP , a nurse , a social prescriber , a pharmacist and other provide ancillary service . these change will affect not just her constituent and my constituent but every single constituency in the country , because every single gp practice will have the same problem . I completely agree with the hon . member ' s point . all member across the House want to see our NHS thrive and to see the healthcare and social care that our constituent deserve . I urge the Government to think again about their plan . in Harpenden and berkhamste we have the Elms medical practice , which have say it be dedicate to the NHS and want to serve people but be face these difficulty . it be ask the Government to rethink their choice on national insurance . this be about those who want to serve and our constituent who need they . I very much agree with my hon . friend . we will all have have constituent and organisation contact we because they be really worried about the impact that these change will have . I do not think that the Government intentionally set out to make life more difficult for GPs , and I do not think that they intentionally set out with their Budget to make life more difficult for pharmacy , for hospice or for dental practice , but we need to speak up for constituent who contact we to say that if the Government want to keep the cost of childcare from rise and constituent to be able to access a GP appointment in a timely manner , they need to think again about this rise . I urge they to do so . a former conservative leader once have the famous phrase , " there be no magic money tree . " sadly , that be a lesson that Opposition Members have yet to learn . let we be clear about the economic situation that we be face . in July , when the Conservatives leave office , the tax burden be at a 70 - year high , and they leave we with a £ 22 billion black hole in our public finance . this be their legacy and they must live with it : confidence in public service be at an all - time low , and the tax burden at an all - time high . they could not even deliver on their promise in my constituency . if they have choose to invest the money need into our NHS , they would have see the benefit . if they have invest the money in our school , they would have see the benefit . if they have fund our armed service to take on the challenge of tomorrow , we would all see the benefit . instead , when I look at the primary care centre in Clay Cross , I see hard - work health staff let down by the former Government . when I look at Killamarsh junior school , again , I see hard - work staff and young child let down by this former Government . as I speak to my former Army colleague , I see no improvement in the situation there either , thank to the former Government . we must take action . it be our duty as a Government to take the hard choice necessary . I believe that in the long run , this be a positive and necessary step for our UK economy , public service and workforce . national insurance contribution be the backbone of funding for our essential service such as healthcare and pension , and my voter choose that . the Vale of Glamorgan , and Wales more broadly , be full of small and micro business . the Office for National Statistics and the OBR have both tell we that most small business and micro business will be well off or the same as before . the Vale ' s business get not only well public service but a good tax set - up . do my hon . friend agree that this be a great budget and a great proposition for small business in the Vale ? I could not agree more . I have hear from so many small business owner in North East Derbyshire who be so thankful for the change that we be make to support they . if we fail to make these decision today , we risk the prospect of cut to crucial service or an increase burden on future generation , which would fall on the most vulnerable in society . the hon . member talk about cut to vital service . do she agree that no one would think less of the government if they be to take £ 3 billion or £ 4 billion out of the £ 22 billion for the NHS and ensure that social care , hospice , GP surgery and the like do not lose out , to have a holistic and positive input into the health service rather than the disjoint one that we be at risk of right now ? I be sure that the health team will listen to all and any contribution , and will make a decision . the Labour Government refuse to balance the book on the back of the poor , worker or people strive for a well life . will the hon . member give way ? I be go to make progress , as I know other Back Benchers would like to speak . instead of austerity mark II , we choose to invest in our service , our child and the people who fight every day to keep we safe . these increase will strengthen our public service , promote economic stability and invest in the future of our workforce . they be an investment in our long - term prosperity , and I fully support they . the Budget force business to compromise on growth — those be the word of the CEO of the Confederation of British Industry . the OBR have say that the job tax will reduce wage by £ 7 . 5 billion and increase inflation . both the OBR and the CBI say that it will result in high price , so it be no surprise that , over the past few week , my inbox have be full of local organisation that be gravely concerned about this £ 25 billion stealth tax . we be shocked , and they be heartbroken , because Labour promise not to raise national insurance . indeed , the then shadow Chancellor call it a job tax , and say that Labour would never pursue such a thing . of the organisation that have write to I , which be the most worried ? St Barnabas Lincolnshire , Lincolnshire and Nottinghamshire air ambulance , Uppingham GP practice and Stamford GP practice — the Royal College of GPs have say that it will cost 2 . 2 million appointment to service these increase — as well as the Vista ( the Royal Leicestershire Rutland and Wycliffe Society for the Blind ) , local nursery , my local citizen advice , and my care agency and hospitality business have all write to I . as we approach Small Business Saturday , I have my independent shop competition , where around 100 , 000 vote be cast for the favourite local independent business , but those business be write to I to tell I how worried they be . family business be particularly worried . the tax will affect rural community most of all , because they have small margin — they be already worried about farmer go out of business , on whom they be reliant — and we have small , symbiotic community who support one another . the hon . Lady be make an important point about the impact the change will have on small business . in 2021 , she vote for the Health and Social Care Levy Act 2021 . I have check Hansard , and she mention none of these concern in 2021 . that Act introduce an increase of 1 . 25 percentage point in national insurance for employer and employee . this be a small rise , and it protect employee . can the hon . Lady say why all of a sudden she be now concerned , when three year ago she be not ? the hon . Gentleman may not realise , but at that point we be just come out of something call the pandemic , and it be a health and social care vote , so yes , I absolutely vote to do what we need to do at that point in time . it be a specific levy to raise specific fund for our health and social care . I will happily stand behind that vote . it be interesting , because this tax will make it hard for business to recruit ; indeed , it will cost three time the price , at about £ 800 per employee . that be not how to get growth . it be how to lose staff as employer let people go ; how to see increase demand on our welfare budget ; how to kill off our town centre ; how to see hospice close ; and how to see local authority end up reduce service . rise — no , I will not give way . it will be how charity end up redirect their Christmas appeal , so that people give the penny they have spare to pay the Exchequer , rather than to support those who be most desperate — those on whom charity should be spend their money . this change be the large tax grab of Labour ' s Budget , and it will impact woman and young people most of all . yet there be an absence of speech from the Government Benches about its impact on those who will be most affected . employer be the growth maker , and they be beg Labour to reverse this tax , but work people will be those worst affected . there be still time for Labour to reverse course — to listen and to recognise that the ideology it be pursue be go to harm our community . it be time for Labour to think about the impact and reconsider what it be do , particularly to our GP practice and other — I look forward to hear from the Minister when I share the letter with he . it be not too late . labour must reverse course and fundamentally change its way . the issue at the crux of the debate be one of economic responsibility . it be about a choice whether to invest or to let far decline take place in our public service . they say a week be a long time in politic . well , four month be clearly still not long enough for the Conservatives to have learn any lesson from the last general election about why they might be sit on the Opposition Benches and we might be sit on the Government Benches . they crash the economy , waste billion of pound of taxpayer ' hard - earn money and run the NHS into the ground . they then call an early election to run away from the mess that they know this Government would inherit . as legislator , we need to be honest with the electorate about the trade - off and challenge this country face , and we can not simultaneously rebuild our public service and cut taxis at the same time . as have be say , there be no magic money tree — we see with the disastrous Liz Truss mini - Budget the impact of a Government who do not understand those fact . I recognise there be political difference across the House , but the hon . Gentleman surely have to be concern about the overall impact of the decision on national insurance on the ability and inclination of those who invest in the real economy to generate the wealth and tax revenue that will sustain the economy go forward . surely he can recognise that the decision make by his Government be have a negative effect on growth , which will mean more taxis and more borrowing . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that rather long intervention . I must say that the Conservatives do not understand the economy . if someone can not get a train to work , they can not work ; if they can not get a hospital appointment , they can not work . time and again , I hear from employer that they want investment , stability , and for their employee to be able to contribute in the workplace . to separate public service and the private sector into two diametrically oppose part of the economy be what the Conservatives do for 14 year . they cut public service time and again , and we all face long - term cost because of that fact . the Labour Government understand that . sadly , the conservative party still do not . the choice we be still hear be for continue austerity . no one in this country vote for that and no one on the Labour Benches , at least , want that . we want NHS waiting list to fall . we want crumble school rebuild , and investment in our vital public service and armed force . the hon . Gentleman and I be member of the Health Committee , so I ask he this with all seriousness and genuineness . do he not see the risk of this tax rise for GP surgery , the hospice sector and the voluntary sector , which support a lot of what the NHS do ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . what we have both hear on the Health Committee be that the NHS have be leave on its knee after 14 year . all sector of the health service be cry out for investment . I hear in my constituency from doctor and nurse who be thankful that , finally , they be be recognise with decent pay . opposition Members declare they to be trade union baron . no . they be nurse , doctor , teacher and police officer . as I say , we need to invest . Ministry of Defence home in my constituency must be invest in . my old primary school , Deanesfield , with its crumble classroom need to be invest in . the Labour party have a plan to make that happen and it be vital that we fund those measure — measure that any responsible Government would take . therefore , we do have to make difficult but necessary decision and ask the large business to pay slightly more to help fund those vital public service . I understand the concern that have be raise , but as the Minister put forward , half of business will not pay the extra contribution and some , the small , will pay even less . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I have give way a number of time already and I want to make some more progress , if the right hon . Gentleman will allow . it be a bit rich for the conservative party to suddenly discover the charity sector and claim to be the party of the third sector . have work in the third sector for 10 year , I remember nothing but the conservative party slam the charity sector year after year after year . the charity I meet want we to fix the NHS , to fix homelessness , and to fix the social and economic problem we inherit from the previous Government . locally in Hillingdon , the conservative council have not be a champion ; it have cut they to the bone . Most of the charity I meet have a handful of employee leave , at well . under this Government ' s measure , they be likely to see support . fundamentally , in this Budget we face a choice and we have choose to protect the most vulnerable in society . however , it appear that the conservative still fail to understand basic economic . they want all the benefit of the Budget — at least , they do this week — but they do not seem to know how they will pay for they . they drive our public service into crisis and now oppose the very measure we be take in the Budget to rebuild they . nothing have change . they be not a serious , responsible party of government . they be still addicted to endless cut to public service , pay more and get less , constantly take the short - term , easy approach . it would be immensely irresponsible for any Government to just ignore the crisis in our public service , and to return to austerity , instability and decline . we choose investment over decline . that be what my constituent vote for : more doctor , more nurse , fair pay and investment , not decline . on that point , how can the hon . Gentleman say we will see more doctor when our GP surgery be tell we that they will have to cut doctor , cut staff and cut appointment as a result of the national insurance increase ? what would he say to they ? I would say £ 25 billion for the NHS , a record level of investment since the last Labour Government . I ask the opposition : what would they do ? would they prefer to let NHS waiting list grow , and inequality widen between state and private education ? would they reverse our investment in neighbourhood policing , or our increase funding for social care ? if not , what taxis would they raise instead to pay for those measure ? they can not continue to have it both way . it be clear that the opposition have not learn any lesson . their position continue to be found on an economic fiction . they be the same old conservative party that crash our economy in 2022 , and they would do it again . well , this Budget and this Government will not . we choose investment , we choose our NHS , and we choose to balance our budget . rise — Order . there will now be a four - minute time limit . a reminder about intervention : member be use up the time that other could have have . Paul and Melissa Johnson , the director of Home instead , be local business owner of an adult social care provider base near Twyford , in my constituency . they predict that the national insurance increase will be in the region of £ 45 , 000 a year on the basis of their current payroll , and that the increase in the minimum wage and other cost will add a furth £ 55 , 000 a year . some similar business may have to scale back their plan for growth or their exist operation , or may even face the prospect of close down . inevitably , that will have a significant impact on their elderly client , along with the local authority with which they work . nationally , it be the same story , because the Government ' s job tax will be the tipping point for thousand of care provider . this could have be avoid if the Government have instead choose to increase taxis on big bank , online gambling company and social medium giant , all of which need to pay their fair share of tax . the Conservatives allow those bank and social medium giant to get off the hook ; why be labour do the same ? let I ask the Minister this : will the Government commit themselves to exempt social care from the increase in employer ' national insurance contribution , and if not , how will they protect those who be affect by the potential closure of social care provider ? the concern do not end there . I recently visit twyford surgery and speak to its fantastic GP partner about the impact that the increase will have on their ability to deliver primary care effectively . it be the same story that we hear all over the country : they be look at , in effect , a 4 % reduction in funding , which will have an impact on the service they be able to offer , include joint injection and contraception . the Chancellor will compensate the NHS for the cost of the tax increase , but that support will not be available to GPs or to the vast majority of care provider that be in the private sector , which will lead to even great pressure on our health and care service . at a time when the GP - patient ratio for my area be rise , with 2 , 101 patient for every gp compare with England ' s national average of 1 , 664 , this be simply unacceptable — and it be happen at the bad possible time , because general practice be already in crisis . patient list be soar , and we simply do not have enough gps . the Government must provide assurance , as a matter of urgency , that general practice will be give the same protection as the rest of the NHS , and will receive the necessary funding to cover these additional cost . I be sure that million of people across the country will agree that it be simply common sense to protect GPs at a time of crisis . will my hon . friend give way ? okay , yes . I thank my hon . friend for that reluctant acceptance , and I congratulate he on his speech . do he agree with I , and with those in Lightwater surgery in my constituency , that in an average general practice such as Lightwater the national insurance rise equate to the salary of a fully qualified nurse , and that , whether by accident or design , it will have a significant impact on our constituent and their receipt of healthcare ? my hon . friend be 100 % right . gp surgery have tell I that they spend a disproportionate amount of time seek out different funding pot , which require time and resource — time that could be spend on patient care . will the Minister commit to simplify the process of funding for GPs ? the new intake of youngish — I use that description carefully — member on this side of the House might be forgive for have short memory than other , more long - suffer member , but this be not the first time a Labour Chancellor have make difficult decision on tax to invest in the future of public service , particularly our NHS . twenty - two year ago , a Labour Chancellor tell this House that the NHS be in need of reform and modernisation , and that investment be need not only to deliver well service but to , in the inimitable style of Gordon Brown , " define the character of our country . " — [ Official Report , 17 April 2002 ; Vol . 383 , c . 589 . ] that decision to raise national insurance contribution , combine with far - sighted reform , deliver the short waiting time , and the high public satisfaction with the NHS , in our country ' s history . now , after 14 year of Tory Government , history have repeat itself . once again , a Labour Government be fix the mess make by the Tories , and our NHS be face question over its future and quality . indeed , the choice be more stark today . the challenge before we be not simply to improve standard and resource in the NHS , but to save the very idea itself . back in 2002 , the Tories oppose make difficult decision on tax to support our NHS . their then leader , the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , use precisely the same slogan as the current Leader of the Opposition — the politic of protest , not government . a year later , he be out of his job ; his own party lack confidence in he and get rid of he . we be not able to gamble on political event , but what be the odd of history repeat itself here , too ? the Opposition crow about the Budget , but what be their alternative ? do they oppose the £ 22 billion investment in our NHS ? from which magic money tree will they fund their ever - spiral spending commitment ? fix our public finance , without compromise our belief in a strong nhs , be at the heart of this Government ' s agenda . that be so important , because I have have countless conversation with constituent who face agonising wait over year for basic operation , and with those who dread the 8 am rush to book an appointment at the local gp , know full well that they will often be disappoint . they know that the NHS need urgent investment , but they also know that the NHS must change . that be why the investment by this Government have be say to be a down payment on reform . we must transform the way in which our NHS operate ; otherwise , the investment will be waste . the NHS serve a wholly different population in a wholly different context from when the Labour party create it in 1947 . we be live long , our health issue be more structural , technology can transform our interaction with healthcare provision , and patient can feel more empower , but we need to get funding into the NHS now . the Tories want all the benefit of investment , but they have no idea how they would pay for it . we can look to history again to tell we what happen when conservative make promise without a clue about how they would fund they . look at the 40 hospital that have not be build . look at the £ 6 billion black hole in our asylum system . look at the mini - Budget . the hon . Gentleman rightly point out the need to invest in the NHS . do he recognise that impose nic on primary healthcare provider such as my constituency ' s Weldmar Hospicecare , which provide vital end of life care to resident and must raise £ 26 , 000 a day to fund its service , will result — order . that be perfectly long enough . that point have be make over and over again in intervention , and the Health Secretary have be very clear that fund allocation for primary care service and other service will be set out in due course . as a result of this Labour Government ' s action , there will be more money available than there would have be . this debate show the Opposition to be mere opportunist who be incapable , or perhaps unwilling , to face up to the difficult decision that we face as a country . we have see the path that take we down , and we can not do that again . the Chancellor ' s Budget have create a right mess . no matter how regularly the Prime Minister bleat that he be fix the foundation , it be a mess of Labour ' s own making , date stamp 30 October 2024 . the OBR have forensically dismantle the Government ' s pathetic fallacy of a £ 22 billion black hole , but even if it have not , my constituent be not stupid . if the Chancellor be as worry by the state of the public finance as she say she be , why would she increase borrow by £ 32 billion annually , undermine our financial resilience ? why would she make the choice to splurge cash on union pay rise with no productivity commitment ? why would she make a series of decision that would lead the OBR to downgrade its growth forecast since our April Budget ? I welcome the extra pay for our teacher and our doctor . even if the hon . Lady do not think that our public sector hero deserve that pay rise , do she accept that lose school day cost the economy £ 900 million and that the NHS have have to spend £ 9 . 3 billion on temporary staffing ? I be interested by the train driver ' pay deal , where the Government actually go back to the deal that we have make and undo the productivity commitment that we put in . why would the Chancellor front - load spending on the NHS before the Health Secretary even have a plan for how he will use that precious cash , therefore risk billion be waste ? it make no sense , and everyone outside this place and all those inside it , apart from the Labour Members who be gleefully waft their Order Papers around , can see that . the Chancellor be ask for an extra £ 40 billion in taxis from the british people , and it be largely be take from some of the most productive , entrepreneurial people in the country : the people who provide job and who do the right thing . I worry deeply that their good money be go to be pour into the public sector and benefit without any noticeable improvement in public service , and that when that happen , the Chancellor be go to come back for more . the incentive for anyone in this country to be entrepreneurial , to stick their neck out , to take the risk of employ people or to build true wealth for this nation will diminish . we will then find ourselves in a downward spiral , ever more unable to withstand external shock and ever less appealing as a country in which our young people will want to stay to create , to innovate and to build . as we know , a big chunk of that £ 40 billion be come from the sneaky rise in employer national insurance — something the Government obscure from their plan in July — but let we start with the pain that the Chancellor ' s choice on NI be cause her own Cabinet colleague . she have blow hole in the budget of every major Government Department . the Health Secretary now have problem with GPs , pharmacy , social care and hospice . the Deputy Prime Minister have council tell she that they have to find over £ 1 billion extra to pay provider for their service . the Culture Secretary have charity , tourism business and cultural venue tell she that they have major problem . the Education Secretary have have to raise tuition fee by £ 400 million because university be tell she that they now have a hole in their budget of exactly the same size . it go on . I want to talk about the pain that this policy be cause to my constituent , particularly the lowering of the NI threshold , which be whack the kind of business that employ a lot of young low - wage worker , parent get back into the workplace and people who be pick up extra job to make end meet . let I give some example . the first be a local after - school club provider employ 34 people and offer wraparound club that help out hundred of Havering family . it be the kind of club that make that work / family juggle survivable . because of the NICs hike and the lowering of the threshold , its bill be go to rise from £ 10 , 851 to £ 26 , 040 annually . the last thing it want to do be to lose staff or hike fee for local family , but it can not see a way around that . another example be an outdoor activity business that give young people across London the most amazing opportunity . its cost next year be go to increase by £ 70 , 000 as a direct result of the Budget , and it now worry that it will not be able to fund the young people ' s bursary that be provide over 1 , 300 disadvantaged kid in the region with outdoor experience . a third be a home care business that look after old people in Havering . its branch in Hornchurch face pay an extra £ 100 , 000 a year , make it loss - making from April . that be absolutely crazy . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I be afraid there be simply not enough time . finally , I want to mention a small private school in my constituency . its pupil be some of the most vulnerable and deprive in our capital , as it be an alternative provision school . first , the Labour Government hit it with vat . now they be go to hit it with nic and wage increase . either it absorb that cost or it pass it on to the local council . those be four business from Harold Hill to Hornchurch provide critical service to my constituent , employ young people and give work family opportunity . now they be go to be hit by ten of thousand in extra cost , and that be before I even talk about the GPs , the pharmacist , the dentist , the charity , the shop , the restaurant and the pub . it be for they that I be go to wholeheartedly — order . that bring we to the Front - Bench contribution . it be a pleasure to close this debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . I recognise that many member have not be able to speak because of the level of concern in the early debate about Labour ' s family farm tax . in this debate , we have hear talk of difficult decision , but Labour Members seem to be in denial about the real - world impact of those decision on the organisation in their constituency that have to make difficult decision about wage or job . today , Labour Members have an opportunity to stand with their constituent . this debate be fundamentally about trust and the promise make by the Labour party . at the election , Labour ' s manifesto promise : " Labour will not increase taxis on work people , which be why we will not increase National Insurance " . it be clear to everyone what that mean . the IFS say that this measure would be a " straightforward breach " of the labour manifesto , but Labour then choose to break its promise by introduce this £ 25 billion a year job tax . once again , we have hear the tired claim blame a fantasy £ 22 billion black hole — claim debunk by the independent OBR , as well as by my hon . friend the Member for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) , who point out that the Government ' s £ 1 billion pay deal for their union paymaster create a lot of that hole . the voter be not fool , and they know what Labour say and do : it break its promise to the british people . what have be the impact of this £ 25 billion job tax ? business confidence be plummet , and output have already reduce for the first time in over a year . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury and Labour Members have again claim that the impact of this measure be limited , but even in the very limited impact assessment he refer to , HMRC estimate that 940 , 000 business will lose out in net term , with an average annual tax increase of £ 800 per employee . the average employer lose out will see its liability increase by £ 26 , 000 a year , and it be work people who will pay the price with low wage , high price and few job . many hon . member have speak about the impact on charity and organisation in their constituency . my thrill - seek hon . friend the Member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) , who I be glad be still in one piece , speak about the hit to hospice that provide vital care , which will see high cost amount to ten of million of pound . charity will face a bill that be £ 1 . 4 billion high . Marie Curie alone will have a £ 3 million hit to its cost . the Royal College of General Practitioners have warn that the extra cost could force surgery to make redundancy or close altogether . adult social care provider will see a £ 2 . 8 billion hit in the next financial year . despite the warning from hospice , care home , dentist , nursery , pharmacy and other , there have be cold comfort from the Minister . there have be no clarity on whether support will be provide — no clarity on when support might come , how much it might amount to or if it will come at all . as my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) say , give the impact on these group , the Government should rethink their proposal . although 800 job a day be create under the Conservatives from 2010 , Labour ' s job tax be expect to see job lose and few job create . Bloomberg estimate that as many as 130 , 000 job could be lose , but perhaps most concern be the impact on the low pay . the OBR estimate that 80 % of the cost of these measure will be pay by reduce wage . lower the level at which employer nic be levy , from £ 9 , 100 a year to £ 5 , 000 a year , will hurt part - time , female and young worker in particular . the OBR expect this measure to raise £ 17 . 7 billion a year on average . no wonder the CBI have warn that two third of its member be reduce their plan to take on staff . the British Retail Consortium have also warn of a £ 2 . 3 billion hit , mean that job loss be inevitable . of course , this tax will also push up inflation . Tesco , Lidl and all the major retailer have say so — a more expensive weekly shop be the price of this measure . we have hear today about the need for investment in public service , on which all Opposition Members agree . I be happy to highlight our record of record investment in the NHS and climb up the international education league table . that progress be now under threat from the Government ' s proposal . we would have make different choice from this tax - raise Budget . our plan would have grow the economy fast — the OBR downgrade growth after the Budget . our plan would have deliver £ 12 billion of welfare saving , but those plan be put in the deep freeze by the Labour party . we would have improve productivity in the public sector by get back to pre - covid level , save £ 20 billion a year . Labour Members ask for our idea , so there they be . some 4 million job be create under conservative government from 2010 on . youth unemployment be cut by 40 % , 1 million more disabled people get into work and we have the fast grow economy in the G7 . by contrast , Labour be break promise make only a few month ago and choose to put up taxis , despite the damage to the economy and to work people . the Chancellor ' s pledge not to raise further taxis have drop like a stone ; we have see this movie — they will be back for more . I urge hon . member to support our motion . I thank all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution during the course of the debate . this Government be elect with an immediate and critical need to draw a line under the fiscal irresponsibility and economic mismanagement of the Conservatives . since day one in office , we have be determine to deliver economic stability , and we have do so by fix the public finance , introduce tough new fiscal rule , and get the NHS and other public service back on their foot . it be on those foundation that we will boost investment and drive long - term economic growth to make people well off . this be not an easy task , as the Chancellor have say , but fix those foundation be what underpin all the difficult but necessary decision we have take . it be the goal of fix the foundation of our public finance and the NHS that have drive our decision to make the change to employer national insurance contribution that we have be discuss today . in take the difficult decision at the Budget , the Chancellor have be determine to protect work people . that be why our Budget make no change to income tax , rate of vat or the amount of national insurance that work people pay . as a result of our Budget , people will not see a penny more on their payslip . however , a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance can not be fix without take any difficult decision at all . the Conservatives in government hide their head in the sand and ignore the fiscal reality . now , both they and other opposition party be desperate to have it both way . they say that they support extra money for the NHS , but they refuse to back the measure to fund it . on that point , will the Minister give way ? I have be very generous over the past 48 hour in give way in this Chamber , but I will not . my time be very limited , although I would like to hear more about the plane the hon . Gentleman speak about early . we have make the tough but necessary choice that this set of circumstance require , which be why we have decide to raise employer national insurance contribution . the change broadly return national insurance revenue as a proportion of gdp to the level they be at before the previous Government ' s cut to employee and self - employ nic , but they do so in a way that do not result in high taxis in people ' s payslip . they also do so in a way that increase protection for small business and charity , because we have decide to more than double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 and remove the business size threshold . that mean that from April 2025 , all eligible organisation will be able to employ up to four people on the national living wage without pay a penny of employer ' s national insurance . over half of all employer will pay the same or less national insurance than they do before , but we acknowledge that the decision will have an impact for other employer . employer will have a choice about how they respond to the change , and some of those choice will be hard . I do not have enough time to respond to all the point raise by hon . member directly , but I will briefly respond to the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) — he have be intervene all afternoon but he be no long in his place . he ask about table 3 . 2 in the OBR report . I be sorry to disappoint he , but my answer be nowhere near as interesting as I suspect he think it might be ; the table be simply publish in error and have now be correct . the Government provide support for Departments and other public sector employee with the additional employer national insurance contribution liability , and separately we have provide an additional 3 . 2 % increase to local government spending power , include £ 600 million of new grant funding for social care . I thank all the other hon . member who make contribution : my hon . friend the Members for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) , for Stevenage ( Kevin Bonavia ) , for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) , for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) and for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) , and the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) , for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) , for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) , for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) and for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) . I want to briefly respond to the point of order make early by the hon . member for South Shropshire ( Stuart Anderson ) because I welcome the chance to repeat the fact that the OBR say in October that its March forecast would have be " materially different " have it know what the previous Government do not share with it at the time of the March forecast . I be confident that the Hansard record be correct . it specifically include " materially different " in quotation and not the rest of my statement . I be grateful to have have the chance to respond on behalf of the Government to the question that have be raise today . the decision to make change to employer national insurance be not take lightly . it be a tough decision for we to take . I recognise that while half of business and organisation will pay the same or less than before , other will face difficult decision of their own . we have ask employer to make a great contribution , and while we do not expect those affect to welcome that , I hope the majority will understand why we have do it . the simple fact of the matter be that our country need a government prepare to fix the public finance , get public service back on their foot and restore economic stability . it be only through an ambitious and fiscally responsible approach that we can boost investment in growth , lay the path towards the bright day ahead . the previous Government have completely lose sight of that . my office in the Treasury building use to be that of Nigel Lawson . he once say : " to govern be to choose . to appear to be unable to choose be to appear to be unable to govern . " that very neatly reflect where the conservative party have end up now . before , as the Government , the Conservatives have give up on effective governing , and since then they have give up on effective opposition . this vote today come down to a choice : between irresponsibility on the Opposition Benches and a government prepare to do what be need to build a well future . it be this Labour party in government that be take the tough but necessary decision , with a once - in - a - generation Budget to wipe the slate clean and put our country on a well path . it be this Government that have restore economic stability , fix the public finance and hardwired fiscal responsibility into the Budget - make process . it be this Government that be put the NHS back on its foot , raise the national living wage and protect people ' s payslip , and it be this Government that will invest in our country , create wealth in every nation and region and make people across Britain well off . that be the choice today and that be why we reject the Opposition ' s motion . question put . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Richard Foord will Forster Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Julian Lewis Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Nick Timothy David Simmonds Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Kate Dearden Martin McCluskey the House divide : Ayes 165 , Noes 334 . question accordingly negative . business without Debate Liaison Committee ( Membership ) Ordered , that — ( 1 ) with effect for the current Parliament , notwithstanding Standing Order no . 121 ( nomination of select committee ) , the Members elect by the House or otherwise choose to be chair of each of the select committee list in paragraph ( 2 ) shall each be a member of the Liaison Committee ; ( 2 ) the committee to which paragraph ( 1 ) apply be : administration ; Backbench Business ; Business and Trade ; Culture , Media and Sport ; Defence ; Education ; Energy Security and Net Zero ; environmental Audit ; Environment , Food and Rural Affairs ; Finance ; Foreign Affairs ; Health and Social Care ; Home Affairs ; Housing , Communities and Local Government ; Human Rights ( Joint Committee ) ( the chair be a Member of this House ) ; International Development ; Justice ; Northern Ireland Affairs ; petition ; Privileges ( the chair not be the chair of the Committee on Standards ) ; Procedure ; Public Accounts ; Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs ; Science , Innovation and Technology ; Scottish Affairs ; selection ; Standards ; Statutory Instruments ; Transport ; Treasury ; Welsh Affairs ; Women and Equalities ; and Work and Pensions . — ( Chris Elmore . ) House of Commons Commission Resolved , that — ( 1 ) in pursuance of section 1 ( 2 ) ( d ) of the House of Commons ( Administration ) Act 1978 , Steve Barclay be appoint to the House of Commons Commission in place of Sharon Hodgson , and ( 2 ) in pursuance of section 1 ( 2b ) of that Act , the appointment of Catherine Ward as an external member of the Commission be extend to 31 December 2025 . — ( Chris Elmore . ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , company that the draft Companies and Limited Liability Partnerships ( Protection and Disclosure of Information and Consequential Amendments ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 31 October , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Electricity that the draft contract for difference ( Miscellaneous Amendments ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 28 October , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Trade that the draft Movement of Goods ( Northern Ireland to Great Britain ) ( animal , Feed and Food , Plant Health etc . ) ( Transitory Provision and Miscellaneous Amendments ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 28 October , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until Wednesday 11 December ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Environmental Protection that the draft Persistent Organic Pollutants ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 8 October , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . Northern Ireland : Legacy of the Troubles before call the Secretary of State to make his statement , I remind the House that on 19 November Mr Speaker grant a waiver from the House ' s sub judice resolution in respect of the case of Dillon and other v . the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland . as such , reference may be make to that case during the statement and the question that follow . with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the legacy of the trouble in Northern Ireland . the timing of the statement be choose so as not to take time away from the Opposition day debate we have just have , while also enable the Northern Ireland Court of Appeal to be update today . address the legacy of the trouble be one of the aim of the Good Friday agreement , but this task remain incomplete . too many family I have meet have have to wait too long to find out what happen to their love one . I have find it difficult to listen to their story about the brutality of the killing , the way some of they be treat afterwards , and the passing of the year without find answer . the approach take to legacy by the last Government be wrong . it be reject by the Northern Ireland political party , victim ' group and the Irish Government , and it be oppose by the Labour party when we be in opposition . aspect of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 have now be find by the court to be incompatible with our obligation under the european convention on human right . this must be remedied , and the Government be commit to repeal and replace that legislation , as set out in our manifesto . I be today lay a remedial order under the Human Rights Act 1998 to take the first step to honour that commitment . this order will remedy all of the human right deficiency in the legacy Act identify by the Northern Ireland High Court in February in the case of Dillon and other , and one issue from the Court of Appeal judgment in September . specifically , the order , if adopt by Parliament , will remove all provision from the Act relate to the immunity scheme , which — let it not be forget — would have enable any of those who perpetrate the most appalling terrorist crime to seek immunity from prosecution from the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery , although , as many victim ' family recognise , with the passage of time the prospect of successful prosecution be increasingly unlikely . the order will also enable all civil proceeding that be prohibit by the legacy Act , include future case , to proceed . this mean that individual will once again be able to bring trouble - relate case to the civil court — a basic right deny they by the legacy Act . in addition to lay this remedial order , I can also announce today that I will introduce primary legislation when parliamentary time allow . this legislation will implement our promise to restore inquest , start with those that be previously halt by the legacy Act . it will also , in direct response to the Northern Ireland Court of Appeal ' s finding , amend the disclosure regime so that it be fair , transparent and , crucially , allow for the great possible disclosure of information , follow very closely the model for statutory inquiry and other establish process . we will also ensure that , in specific circumstance — namely , in case that be unable to proceed as an inquest — the independent commission be able to hold public hearing , take swear evidence from individual and ensure that family have effective representation . although the court have find the commission be sufficiently independent to conduct article 2 compliant investigation , the confidence of family in its work be paramount , so we will make further change to reform and strengthen the commission ' s independence , power and accountability . as part of this work , we will consider provision previously include in the draft Stormont House agreement legislation , as well as learn from the experience of Operation Kenova . the step I be outline today seek to correct the mistake of the previous Government ' s approach , ensure compliance with the echr and deliver on what this Government have promise : the removal of conditional immunity ; the reinstatement of legacy inquest halt by the legacy Act ; restore civil case ; and reform ICRIR , while enable it to continue work on behalf of the grow number of family who have already seek its help . the many conversation that I have have with interested party in recent month have be invaluable in the development of this approach . I will now undertake further discussion on specific measure to be include in primary legislation so that , together with the remedial order , the Government fulfil our commitment to repeal and replace the legacy Act . this will include family , victim and survivor group , Northern Ireland party , civil society and the veteran community , recognise the dedicated service of the vast majority of police officer , member of the armed force and the security service who do so much to keep the people of Northern Ireland safe during the trouble . I want to take the opportunity to reassure the House that the Government be commit to ensure that veteran receive the right welfare and , where appropriate , legal support . I will , of course , also continue to have detailed discussion with the Irish Government , who , as co - guarantor of the Good Friday agreement , be an essential partner in this process . I hope that the UK and irish Governments will be able to agree a way forward that be underpin by the principle set out in the Stormont House agreement . I be sure that everyone recognise that , as time pass and family grow old , we need to get on with enable they to obtain the information , accountability and acknowledgement that they have long seek . in parallel , the Government also need to set out the ground for appeal on element of the Court of Appeal judgment . as I have say , the Government will use primary legislation to respond directly to a number of the Court of Appeal ' s finding on disclosure . however , the primacy of the Executive in decision relate to the security of the state be a principle long recognise by UK court and be a crucial element of our ability to keep people safe . for this reason , we will appeal the Court ' s specific finding relate to the Secretary of State ' s power to preclude the disclosure of sensitive information in circumstance where such disclosure would prejudice the national security interest of the United Kingdom . furthermore , the Court ' s finding relate to effective next - of - kin participation in case that would otherwise be inquest raise issue that could reach far beyond the scope of the legacy Act . it be important that the Government seek legal clarity from the Supreme Court , and that be why we have decide that the Government must seek to appeal on this particular issue as well . the Government will also pursue an appeal in relation to the finding on article 2 of the Windsor framework , for reason I set out in my write ministerial statement of 29 July . I would like to say as clearly as possible that these decision on appeal be to address wide concern and their potential impact far beyond the legacy Act and Northern Ireland . they will not slow down our effort to seek agreement and bring forward legacy legislation so that the ICRIR , which have begin its work , can demonstrate its capacity to assist victim and family . finally , what be all this for ? it be to ensure that family who have lose love one — family who above all should be in our heart and mind today — can finally learn what happen . nothing will ever ease the pain that they endure to this day , but we must hope that society in Northern Ireland , which have come such a long way since 1998 , can begin to heal the terrible wound of the past and look to a well future . I commend this statement to the House . I call shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement , for give an oral statement on this very important subject , and for schedule the statement at such a time as would not interfere with the Opposition day debate — that be very decent of he . I do not intend to rehearse all of the long debate that be have in the last Parliament over the legacy Act . the Labour party win the general election on a manifesto that include a number of measure that the Secretary of State have just discuss , and it have a mandate to make the change it want to make . but I will say this : there be an attempt by the last government — a desire from the last government — to draw a line under many difficult thing that have happen , and with the action the Government be now take that line be be erase . I will remind the House of the central reason why the last Government legislate . they do so to try and protect some elderly people , include servicemen , who be be bring before inquest to discuss event that may or may not have happen very many year before . this be a process inevitably weight against the police and the armed force , who keep record and whose servicemen be easily locatable and contactable . tonight there will be many such man harbour a sense of dread . I know the Government be take a different approach , but I do ask they to spare a thought for those man this evening and to think very deeply about what they can do to support they and what help they can offer they . I have a number of question for the Secretary of State . I appreciate that he may not be able to answer they all this evening , so I would be grateful if he would undertake to write to I on these very important matter . the first issue I would like to touch on be the ICRIR , which be set up by the legacy Act . indeed , for all the Government ' s current talk of want to replace the legacy Act , a very large part of that legislation be concern with its establishment . I be very pleased early in the year that the Secretary of State affirm his support for the ICRIR and for Sir Declan Morgan , who be do an admirable job of oversee it . in his statement , the Secretary of State say that he will " reform and strengthen the commission ' s independence , power and accountability . " I would be grateful if he could set out exactly how and why he intend to do that , give that in September Sir Declan make it clear that he already have the necessary independence and power to do his job . secondly , I be pleased to hear that the Secretary of State intend to appeal the Court ' s specific finding regard the Secretary of State ' s power to preclude the disclosure of sensitive information in circumstance where disclosure would be prejudicial to national security , but will he confirm that , in the event that his appeal be unsuccessful , the Government will legislate to ensure that national security be protect ? if he do so , he will have our support . thirdly , I must ask the Secretary of State about the new regime that be emerge — it seem rather more by accident than design — and how it will work . we will have inquest , the ICRIR and inquiry . who will decide which route a family go down ? will it be the family , the Government or the court ? what criterion will be use ? how will dispute about the route choose be adjudicate ? one of the quality of the legacy Act be that it greatly simplify the system . the system be now be return to complexity . finally , I must ask the Secretary of State to give the House some clarity on the Government ' s position on article 2 ( 1 ) of the Windsor framework . I be pleased that he be continue his appeal against the Colton judgment hand down in July . that be a decision in which the Court of Appeal seek to disapply statute , and in his statement in July he refer to it as a technical point of law , but it be quite some technicality . article 2 ( 1 ) of the Windsor framework be very important in this judgment , and I would like he to be able to give clarity on the Government ' s position . be it , as the last government ' s position be , that the right available to the people of Northern Ireland under the Belfast agreement should not be diminish as a result of our leave the EU , or be it that a broad range of right available at the time of our departure from the EU should not be diminish as a result of leave the EU , or be it that the right of the northern irish people should keep pace with EU law as it develop ? those be incredibly important point of law that will have a long consequence in british court . I would be grateful if he could give the House clarity on those matter . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for the manner of his response and for acknowledge that the Government have a mandate to introduce the change I have set out today , although he do not comment on the fact that a number of element of the legislation that the last Government put in place have be find to be incompatible with our international obligation under the european convention on human right , and that alone be a demonstration of the failing of that particular legislation . I acknowledge the point that the shadow Secretary of State raise about veteran , and we hold they very close to our heart , as I know do the Defence Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Rawmarsh and Conisbrough ( John Healey ) , who be in the Chamber this evening . the shadow Secretary of State ask about the ICRIR . indeed , the court have find it to be independent , and it have considerable power . it be currently investigate a first case that I refer to it yesterday , follow a report from the Police Service of Northern Ireland . the purpose of the change that I will be discuss with all the party I set out in my statement will be to far build confidence in ICRIR . part of the reason ICRIR do not currently command the confidence of all survivor and victim group be because it be create in an Act that close off any other route of remedy . People be tell , " you can not have a civil case . you can not have an inquest . if you be have an inquest now , we be cut it short on the 1 May deadline , and the only place you can then go be ICRIR . " if I may say so , that damage confidence in ICRIR . I have great confidence in Sir Declan Morgan , and people have now start come to ICRIR , and I want to build confidence . that be the basis of the further change that I propose to come to later on . on the hon . Gentleman ' s question on disclosure , I have to say that , if we get leave to appeal , we will have to wait and see what the Supreme Court have to say about that . when it come to the different regime , as he will know , for ICRIR , family can approach it and say , " I would like there to be a review or , if you think it appropriate , an investigation . " certain people have power to refer case to ICRIR — I have just do so in the case I have outline . it be for the Government to decide whether to launch public inquiry . yes , there be some complexity , as the hon . Gentleman might say , but it do give people a choice , and it do give they their right . how could we say to citizen in one part of our important United Kingdom that they could no long have the right to bring a civil case ? that be what the legacy Act do , and that be what the Court of Appeal have recently find to be incompatible . finally , on article 2 , I be not a lawyer but I think the hon . Gentleman set out quite well the range of issue that arise out of the way in which the court have thus far interpret article 2 and its application . as the court have take what I might describe as an expansive view of what article 2 mean compare with what some people might have think when it be originally write , it be important for the Government , and indeed for the country , to go to the Supreme Court and ask , " which be the right interpretation ? " I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . early this week , the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , lead by my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , visit Northern Ireland , where it be clear from our discussion with many stakeholder that real progress have be make since 1998 but that there be much more to do so . first , how do the Secretary of State think this announcement will bring people in Northern Ireland together ? secondly , will he tell we when he plan to bring forward the primary legislation to which he refer ? the answer to my hon . friend ' s second question , as I have already indicate , be when parliamentary time allow . in answer to his first question , I hope that people will see a Government seek to address the evidential shortcoming of the legacy Act , but it be my wish to achieve as much consensus as possible . I be not naive , and I be not go to stand before the House today and think that in the end I will get everybody to back the proposal that I have already bring forward and will bring forward in due course , but all of we in all part of the House should have that aim . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . it have long be recognise that it be neither wise nor sustainable to simply draw a line under the past in Northern Ireland ; there be too much hurt and there be too many demand for truth and justice . the Liberal Democrats believe that Northern Ireland must be able to deal with its past in a manner that promote reconciliation and be consistent with a share future . the approach of the previous Government be wrong . we oppose the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act , as do every political party in Northern Ireland . just as work closely with Northern Ireland political party be crucial to help Northern Ireland deal with its past , so too be have a constructive relationship with the Republic of Ireland . to that end , we welcome the Government ' s new and constructive approach and the announcement of new legislation . I welcome the Northern Ireland Secretary ' s meet with Miche á l Martin early this week . do the Secretary of State believe that we might be make progress towards the Irish Government withdraw their legal case ? he say that legislation will be introduce when parliamentary time allow . will he offer further insight on when that might be ? on the ICRIR , I think we all agree that it be vital to have a body that have the faith and trust of victim and their family , and I pay tribute to Sir Declan Morgan and his colleague for the work that they have do in hugely challenging circumstance . I hear what the Secretary of State say regard reform the ICRIR , but will he keep on the table the option of replace it entirely , should it turn out that such reform do not deliver what we all want to see , which be family get the answer they need in a manner that promote reconciliation and an institution that command widespread public trust ? I hope that it might be possible to reach agreement with the Irish Government about how we take this forward . whether they withdraw the interstate case be , of course , entirely a matter for they , but only yesterday I have discussion with Miche á l Martin , the Justice Minister Helen McEntee and the Under - Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , in which we discuss these matter . I regard that dialogue as very important to build confidence . in answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s second question on when the legislation will be forthcoming , I can only repeat myself : when parliamentary time allow . on his third question on keep open the prospect of abolish ICRIR , I simply say that one could do that — there be those who would argue for it . that would bring to a halt the case that have already start , and to each of those family who have take the decision to approach ICRIR , that case really matter . we would be say to they , " right . forget that " and we would waste all the money that have be put into establish ICRIR so that it have the capacity to do its work , and waste another year or two . as I have say , nobody be get any young . in the end , in most of the discussion that I have have , I have ask people , " do you think we need an information recovery function ? " they have say yes . I have ask , " do you think that we need a means of continue investigation ? " they have say yes . that be what be contain in the Stormont House agreement , and I be not yet persuade that scrap that , to recreate something that end up look not dissimilar from what we have at the moment , be a terribly sensible or pragmatic approach to take . however , I be open to conversation in the way that I set out about what more we can do on ICRIR to increase the public ' s confidence in it . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . I be in Belfast this week with other member of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , and it be clear that all section of Northern Ireland society be oppose to the legacy Act as it be constitute . will the Secretary of State work with all stakeholder go forward , include the Irish Government , as he plan a new way forward on legacy and as he consider how to have full co - operation from the Irish Government in relation to information they may hold on legacy case ? I be very happy to give my hon . friend that assurance . I have have a lot of meeting and discussion already , and to quote that phrase , I shall have further such meeting over the next few month , because I be determined to work as hard as I can to try , as I indicate a moment ago , to find a way forward . the discussion that we have have thus far with the Irish Government , who be resolutely oppose to the legislation that the previous Government put on the statute book , along with everybody else , and the fact that we have demonstrate our willingness to be open to a debate about change that can be make , have be a real step forward . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . I disagree with both the manner and the detail of the last Government ' s Act . this tilt back in favour of the rule of law and in favour of family . will he continue to manage the expectation of family , give the impact of the passage of time ? will he press the Irish Government on Omagh , on Dublin and Monaghan , and on specific terrorist atrocity that they have information on and we need they now to pass over ? I be very grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his question . he play a distinguished role during his time as Secretary of State . he know , as I know and we all know , the importance of try to build a consensus to move forward . he raise the question of Omagh ; I raise that with Miche á l Martin only yesterday . I welcome very much the commitment that the Irish Government have give to co - operate with the Omagh inquiry , and I know that the inquiry look forward to receive that co - operation in the month ahead . I thank the Secretary of State for the decisive action that he have announce today and for bring it to we in the House . nothing can be allow to jeopardise the progress that have be make in Northern Ireland . will he confirm that the thread run through this action , and any future action , be the Government ' s firm commitment to the victim and family , and to get they the answer that they so richly deserve and finally need ? I be very happy to give my hon . friend that assurance . I have talk tonight about a lot of process , future legislation , remedial order and so on . that be why I say at the end of my statement that , in the end , this be about the family — the family , whom many member in the House will have meet , who still do not know what happen and who carry the incredible pain from what they have be through with they to this day . the very least we can do be to try really , really hard to find a way of give they the answer that they have be seek . I welcome the fact that the Government , as part of their appeal , will appeal the way in which the scope of article 2 have be extend , even to include overreach into national policy . I say to the Secretary of State that as long as article 2 remain , there will always be contention about how much say the EU will have — not only on law and activity in Northern Ireland , but on policy make in this House . on the decision he have make on inquest , civil case and disclosure , the Secretary of State have to be honest with this House : that be not go to result in terrorist be take through the court or through the process in Northern Ireland . it will result only in age member of the security force be drag once again through the court and suffering as a result of the service they give in Northern Ireland . he say he intend to continue to speak with the Irish Government . the Irish Government have shamelessly take our Government to court while do nothing about the collusion and activity of the irish state and irish security force in aid and abet the killing of soldier and genocide along the border . will the Secretary of State ensure that if there be a discussion on legacy , they address the past sin they be guilty of ? in deal with the legacy of the trouble it be important that everyone face up to the consequence of what happen and of what they do or do not do — everyone . it be a painful and difficult process indeed . the implication of what I have announce to the House today be that nobody can escape prosecution , because the immunity that be offer by the legacy Act have be remove . if there be evidence — although I acknowledge to the House that with the passage of time that become more and more difficult , for reason the right hon . Gentleman allude to — at least that possibility remain . on article 2 , I would simply point out that this agreement be reach between the British Government and the European Union , and it be the british court — not the european court — that have interpret it . that be why the Government be of the view that we should seek to get a definitive ruling on the nature of that interpretation from the Supreme Court . on 21 November we mark the 50th anniversary of the Birmingham pub bombing . that date will have be feel most heavily by the family of the 21 people who never come home , and by many more who still carry the mental and physical scar of that day . the Secretary of State know that the announcement of the repeal of the legacy Act be welcome at the time it be make . will he agree to enter into correspondence on the potential implication of his announcement tonight for that campaign ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that appalling atrocity . when I be the shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , I meet a number of the Birmingham family over video . they have live for so long with the pain and suffering , and , of course , with the fact that the people who be put in jail for allegedly have do it have not do it , which have only add to their distress . because it happen in Great Britain , it be a matter for the Home Office . however , I would say that ICRIR be now begin to look at the case of the Guildford pub bombing . why ? it be because the family have approach ICRIR . I would just point out that it be open to the Birmingham family — if they wish — to approach ICRIR and ask it to look at what happen to their love one . I be less enthusiastic than many people for this development . if , as the Secretary of State say , the purpose be for the family to find out the truth , can he confirm first of all that the Northern Ireland ( Sentences ) Act 1998 remain in be , so that if somebody be prosecute successfully for the most heinous of offence , they will not serve — whether they be from the armed force on the one side or the terrorist force on the other — more than two year in jail ? give that that be the case , which be the more likely to give the family the truth : try to take people to court , where they will defend their position and try to cover up inconvenient fact ; or try to have an amnesty — that hate word — couple with a truth recovery process , where the truth can be say because people know that they will not go to jail as a result ? clearly , legislation on the statute book , and the provision that it contain , remain in place until such time as it change . on the right hon . Gentleman ' s important point about what the family would prefer , the answer must lie with the family themselves . I , as I know he will also have do , have meet a very large number of family . a lot of they acknowledge that a prosecution be unlikely but want the truth . some of they still want there to be a prosecution for justice to be do . our responsibility be to give family , and the body investigate on their behalf , the mean to provide the answer that the family , after all these year , be look for . as a veteran , I pay tribute to the service of those police officer , member of the armed force and the security service who do so much to keep people in Northern Ireland safe during the trouble and in some case pay the ultimate price . none the less , any solution that do not have the support of victim ' group and political party in Northern Ireland be not , in my view , tenable . can the Secretary of State assure I that any veteran affect will receive all welfare and , if appropriate , legal support where necessary ? I can indeed give my hon . friend that assurance . it be absolutely what we should do when we be think , in this particular case , of those who serve in the armed force — the 250 , 000 people who serve in Northern Ireland as part of Operation Banner . in this place on 11 September , the Secretary of State make a statement with regard to another inquiry . at that point , I ask he whether , for those family who have lose love one to terrorism , he have close down all the other option for an inquiry . he tell I at that point that ICRIR would be the only option . my understanding tonight be that he have now put back on the table several case , inquest and inquiry . what confidence do those family now have in ICRIR when the Secretary of State say tonight that it need reform , that he will bring forward further proposal to reform it , and that he have not detail they ? on the Stormont House agreement , I remind he that the Ulster Unionist party do not support it . on the one inquiry I announce to the House , in relation to the murder of Pat Finucane , I explain the unique circumstance that lead I to reach that conclusion . if I may correct the hon . Gentleman , inquiry be never take off the table as an option . they have remain on the table . it be for the Government of the day to decide whether a public inquiry be order or not . he be right that civil case and inquest in due course will return . it be the case that some people do not have confidence in ICRIR . that be why I think it be important that we should take further step to try to build that confidence , but I have no doubt about its capacity to do the job that be require on behalf of the family that seek its help . as I make clear in the House previously , in the end , ICRIR ' s effectiveness will be judge by those family . do they get the answer that they have seek for so long by approach it ? I know that Sir Declan Morgan be really commit to make sure that he can do that . I , like a number of other , serve in Northern Ireland . we do not ask to go , and I lose a very good friend there — and other , at the same time . that man ' s parent die without ever know what have happen to he , but it turn out that he may well have be dismember and disappear completely . there be no closure for they , and there be no chance , unless Ireland open up its book and look into this , that we will ever get any justice for he . he have a family as well , and many friend who wonder what happen to that brave man , and there be many more like he . so I say on their behalf : yes , let there be justice for family , but let we not forget all those soldier who will now , in some case , be hound for no reason at all — those who lose their friend and their child and who do not want to go there in the first place . where be the justice for they ? let I first thank the right hon . gentleman for his service in Northern Ireland . let I also say how sad I be to hear about the case that he have just describe . justice information should be — must be — available to all . I would just point out , however , that there be service personnel who lose their life in the conflict in Northern Ireland who do not support the legacy Act , precisely because it propose to give immunity to people who have kill their love one . that be another reason why I think it be right to remove immunity from the statute book , which the remedial order that I have lay before the House today will do . I welcome the news that the Government be to pursue an appeal in relation to the finding on article 2 of the Windsor framework in the Dillon judgment . I trust that it be not just an academic pursuit to find out which be the right interpretation , but a determination on the part of the Government to resist the imposition on Northern Ireland , through the Windsor framework , of law , right and expectation that do not apply anywhere else in the United Kingdom . if the Secretary of State fail in his appeal to the Supreme Court , will he undertake to legislate to the effect that article 2 can not have effect in domestic law in Northern Ireland ? the Secretary of State have say that he will be bring to ICRIR the same disclosure right that apply to statutory inquiry . why , then , do we need the Finucane inquiry , if ICRIR will now have the same power ? he say that he would discuss the way forward with the Government of the Irish Republic . they be a Government who have be vigorous in demand accountability from the British Government , but give no accountability as to their own force and a support for terrorism across the border for many year . as the hon . Gentleman will know , the purpose of article 2 be to ensure that there be no diminution in the right of people in Northern Ireland as a result of our withdrawal from the European Union . I certainly support that principle , and I hope that the hon . Gentleman do as well . the last Government think it right to put it in place , because they negotiate that arrangement . in respect of an appeal , we will just have to wait and see what the Supreme Court — if we reach that point and it go there — have to say . I will not prejudge either a verdict or , indeed , what might flow from that . let I just remind the hon . Gentleman , in relation to the Finucane inquiry , that there be very specific reason . the previous Labour Government have make a commitment that in certain case , if an independent judge determine that there be a public inquiry , we would hold one , and I believe that when government make commitment , we should keep our word . I welcome the news that the Secretary of State will repeal the legacy Act . this be something that the previous government — I say this with great respect — simply do not get right , and this Government now have an opportunity to get it right . the Secretary of State have outline the great scope for investigation and inquiry . I lead an Adjournment debate in the last Parliament about the 10 Kingsmill worker murder by the IRA in Newry , and I would seek an inquiry for they , for the victim of the La Mon massacre , in which the IRA murder numerous innocent people , and for the four Ballydugan soldier murder on 9 April 1990 . Stuart Montgomery be three week out of police training college when he be murder by the IRA in Pomeroy . my cousin Kenneth Smyth be murder by the IRA on 10 December 1971 . his friend Daniel McCormick be murder beside he . Raymond McCord ' s son be murder by loyalist . I could mention many , many other . will all those who seek justice be able to access that which they have request in the past , which they have be deny so often — and equal to the decision for the Finucane family ? can the Secretary of State please far expand on the support that will ensure that there will be no witch hunt against armed force and ruc officer , who serve honourably for Crown and country ? I apologise for the emotion . the hon . Gentleman have no reason to apologise to anybody , because he have just demonstrate what I say in my statement about the pain that endure to this day on the part of family who have lose dearly love family member . the way that he put his question , and the emotion that he be not afraid to show — I think he have no control over it ; of course not , because this be how we feel when we reflect on these terrible incident . he mention one of those killing , and here we be in December , which be a particularly difficult time of year . there be a number of anniversary , and we be approach Christmas , when we feel the loss of love one so greatly . we have to work together as hard as we can to provide — if it be possible , because it may not be possible in all case — the mean through which the family can get some answer about what happen . but in the end , each family have to come to term with the loss that they have endure in their own way . I can not think of anything that be more difficult to do , but we need to stand with they every step of the way . I stand with the hon . gentleman — he be my hon . friend — in say that . I thank the Secretary of State both for come to the House to give his statement and , indeed , for the timing of it ; it be hugely appreciated . petition - pimp website and pay for sex I rise on the 10th day of the UN ' s 16 day of activism against gender - base violence to present a petition on commercial sexual exploitation on behalf of my constituent in Neath and Swansea East . pimp website be use by trafficker to advertise and facilitate the sexual exploitation of woman . our law against pimping have fail to keep pace with technological change , and such website be now readily accessible and play a key role in enable sex trafficking in this country . victim of trafficking and exploitation be some of the most vulnerable in our society , and it be our duty to protect they . the petition therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to outlaw pimp website and pay for sex , and provide support , not sanction , to victim of sexual exploitation . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Neath and Swansea East , declare that demand from the minority of man who pay for sex be drive the prostitution and sex trafficking trade , and this sexual exploitation be be facilitate by pimp website that operate with impunity . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to outlaw pimp website and pay for sex , and provide support , not sanction , to victim of sexual exploitation . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003026 ] end of Radio Teleswitch Service : Rural Areas Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) I be pleased to raise the issue of the radio teleswitch service decommissioning in the House this evening . this be a pressured and important matter for 4 , 665 household in my constituency , a further 80 , 000 household across the north of Scotland and fully 800 , 000 household across Great Britain . the ending of the radio teleswitch service , or RTS , which control " total heating with total control " meter , be of vital importance to electric - only customer and yet remain a troubled landscape to some extent . RTS be a radio signal that tell " total heating with total control " meter when to switch between peak and off - peak rate , and this obsolete system will come to an end on 30 June 2025 . it be originally go to cease on 31 March 2024 , but that have to be push back because the system be not ready . that should have be when alarm bell start to ring . customer be be ask to switch to smart meter , and Energy UK , the trade body for energy supplier , have advise customer what could happen if they do not : " you may find that your heating and / or hot water be continually leave on or off , or the charging - up happen at the wrong time of day . your electricity supplier win ' t be able to confirm how much electricity you have use during peak or off - peak time , which mean your electricity cost could be much high than before . " however accurate that message might be , it could easily be a source of alarm for customer . any of we who have have the misfortune to have electric - only heating will realise that even with the discount rate , it be still ferociously expensive , so the idea that anyone could have it without the discount rate be simply not realistic . like my hon . friend , I have significant concern about the end of RTS in rural Scotland . Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey have a disproportionate number of RTS meter , and I include myself in that statistic . my own experience with OVO Energy and switch to a smart meter from RTS have leave a lot to be desire . I have have several telephone conversation with OVO representative as a private customer regard the RTS switchover . the main question I have during those phone call be , " if I switch , will I be well or bad off , or pay the same as I be now for electricity ? " I have to push extremely hard to get a straight answer to that . if that be the difficulty I be experience , as someone who be experience in assist constituent with this very issue , do my hon . friend share my concern about how more vulnerable people , who may feel immense pressure from operator instal new meter , will be impact ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . he have raise a couple of point . one be really important , and that be whether or not customer have an option . they actually do not have a realistic option . the radio teleswitch service be come to an end at the end of June next year , and they will not want to be in the position where they do not have a smart meter that can toggle between a reduce - rate tariff and a full - price tariff . that would be ruinously expensive . my hon . Friend also touch on the communication , and the quality thereof , that supply company be have with their customer . one of the reason that the uptake be so slow be that people do not have confidence in smart meter — and why would they ? there be plenty of problem with the smart meter roll - out just for regular electricity customer who want to know how much electricity they be use . the stake be far high for electric - only customer who heat their home with electricity . they need confidence that their smart meter will actually work . I will come on to that point in a second . my hon . Friend mention Energy UK , and my hon . friend the Member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) mention the number of people in his constituency who use the service . I think it be in the region of 3 , 000 in Aberdeenshire North and Moray East . those people need clarity about what be go to happen . do my hon . friend agree that household need clarity on these proposal , and that the Government should use all mean available to they to ensure that the roll - out be fair and that reassurance be provide to customer ? the operative word of my hon . friend ' s intervention be " fair " , and I will come on to exactly who own the risk . in my discussion beforehand with the hon . Gentleman , I mention what I would be refer to in this intervention . we have similar issue in Northern Ireland , so do the hon . Gentleman agree that the need of rural area need to be take into consideration ? the current cost of live crisis centre on an energy crisis , so we need to ensure that people be not pay more because they be unaware of the step that need to be take to deal with this change . the hon . Gentleman be right that Northern Ireland be a different energy market from Great Britain , but there will be , without question , electric - only customer in the large settlement of Northern Ireland . I know that Northern Ireland be a heavy user of heating oil , but the same scenario will exist in Northern Ireland . although it be a different energy market , the same Department have to have oversight of the equity and effectiveness of whatever solution be find for that part of the United Kingdom . constituent have contact I with concern that they be be ask to switch to a smart meter without a guarantee that the smart meter will work properly . some customer with poor reception who have switch to a smart meter be be ask by their supplier to submit manual reading . it be not clear whether manual reading be compatible with alternative economy tariff , as these be base not only on how much energy be use , but on when that energy be use . the Data Communications Company manage smart meter network , which can reach 99 . 3 % of property , and more than half of home in GB be already connect . information be transmit over a wide area network use mobile phone or radio signal send from each property ' s communication hub , but the method of transmission differ . in central and southern GB , smart meter datum be transmit use cellular and wireless mesh technology provide by Virgin Media O2 , whereas in the north of England and all of Scotland it be transmit over long - range radio signal provide by Arqiva . it would be safe to say that there remain substantial concern about the ability to have two - way communication between supplier and customer over this system . this be no small part of the reason for the hesitancy common among " total heating with total control " customer to rush towards the need to switch . the hon . Gentleman have touch on the fact that radio teleswitching be go . it be an analogue technology , and we will be fortunate if it last until next June — it could collapse at any second . it will be replace by smart meter , and surely it be not beyond the wit of man to design a smart meter that provide something like " total heating with total control " . they do not at present , but that be just because they be not design to do so . be it not the case that this could be fix if the regulator get the company and the different player together and tell they to produce something that suit the customer , not just themselves ? the right hon . Gentleman will have no small number of these customer in his constituency , and he touch on the important point of the vagueness around this . customer be be tell that they must do this , and when they ask for any detail about that which they must do , it be scant , vague and conflicting . we only have to look at the forum on the energy company website and on Facebook to see that peer - to - peer support be answer people ' s question on this issue , rather than there be a cohesive and comprehensive programme of information from the Government , the Department , the regulator and the energy company , work in concert in a professional and coherent way to let customer know exactly what be go to happen . on the speed of the roll - out , the energy supplier , the UK Government and consumer group have commit to co - operate to replace RTS meter prior to the shutdown , which be a pretty minimal commitment . the 10 energy company that have pledge their participation be : British Gas , EDF , E . ON , Octopus , Ovo , Scottish Power , so Energy , SSE , Total Energies , Utilita and Utility Warehouse . through its call to action , the industry have commit to several measure , include zero in on regional hot spot with the high number of RTS customer . that be good but it be late . the industry have a catch - up job in public relation and customer confidence , which it need to accept and resource . the industry have commit to expedite meter upgrade for RTS customer , give prioritisation to vulnerable customer for upgrade , co - operate to solve technical issue , and pool knowledge and expertise across company . this should not be a competitive commercial endeavour ; it should be a call to action across energy company . different house be wire up in different way to accommodate " total heating , total control . " they will interact differently with smart meter when they be fit , which need to be reconcile . the industry have commit to issue monthly report on meter replacement . I urge right hon . and hon . member to focus on those monthly update , because the problem we have be that if we continue to replace RTS meter at the current rate , that will take until 2028 , when we only have until June 2025 . that be why my constituent and I be so concerned . to be fair , the industry be also concerned . it want the transition to work because it want its customer to be supply and to be pay for that supply . the industry be not try to make this not happen — quite the opposite — but we need to change gear and pace . industry be confident that it have the capacity to deliver for every home , but not if all those home come forward in April , May and June . that will not work , which be why we need a call to action now . we be into December and nothing will happen before the new year , so we need to ensure that we hit the ground run in January with this matter as a priority . I make sure the Minister have advance sight of my question , so she could respond at the end of the debate . be she confident that all property will have a smart meter instal by the deadline ? what option be available to RTS customer with poor or no mobile signal , or no ability to receive the radio signal at their property ? will there be an option in extremis , when it be demonstrate that the signal can not be receive at the property , for the customer to have some type of timer solution , with or without a smart meter ? will a standard tariff be rule out as an option , give that it would be ruinously expensive for any customer ? what action have be take with industry to ensure that customer receive a tariff at the same rate or well than that which they have on their " total heating , total control " rate ? that be a key concern for my constituent . what step will the Government take to ensure that the electrical system , and the statutory and commercial entity that control that electrical system , will carry the risk for inflate bill as a result of the change ? consumer have no responsibility whatsoever for the functioning of the electricity system so , by any measure of justice , they should not be expose to the financial risk of a system that no long work and be be replace by one that be more expensive . that should not happen . I thank the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) for bring this important issue to the attention of the House . as I will set out later , it be important that people who will be affect by the transition be aware of the issue and the step we need to take to upgrade . I reassure he that we be do everything we can to ensure that the transition be do with consumer in mind , and that it work for the household we know will be affect . since the 1980 , the radio teleswitch service have play an important role in help many consumer to have low - cost energy for heating and hot water . however , as have be acknowledge , the technology be come to the end of its life . the continuation of the BBC ' s longwave radio signal be due to end on 1 June 2025 . we have already extend the service once , from March this year . when the service end , as have already be point out , there will no long be the availability to switch between rate . in some instance , consumer may lose control of their heating or hot water . with the deadline fast approach , I can not stress enough that this be a big issue for we . it be a priority and we understand that there be a job of work to do to ensure that we can deliver the transition for consumer . the Minister be absolutely right . I raise that with the former Prime Minister at Prime Minister ' s question early this year , and he agree to convene a roundtable where we get everybody in the room , because there have just be too much blame - pass around the various partner . that meeting get overtake by the election , but it happen without parliamentarian at the table . will the Minister now look at the possibility of reconvene that meeting with parliamentarian so that there be that element of accountability at the table ? yes , I be very keen to reconvene that . it be absolutely essential that we work with hon . member across the House who represent constituency that we know will be affect . from our perspective , we have a big job to engage consumer to ensure that they be aware and that the transition be work . we be keen to work across the House to do that . one of the outcome of the roundtable that be put in place be that the taskforce have be establish — with Ofgem , industry and the Government — to manage the transition and to put and inject the urgency that we need to see in the ongoing process . in October , the industry sign up to a call to action , represent a collective agreement to take the step need to speed the transition away from RTS . specific action that be include in that call for action be : target of resource towards regional hotspot where we know there be a high number of RTS customer and we know that we need to do work to reach they ; fast - tracking of meter upgrade for RTS customer and , in particular , vulnerable customer who we be very worried about ; and collaboration on some of the technical solution that we know be need . we be clear that the delivery of the transition away from RTS require active engagement with consumer , as they will need to agree to appointment , collaborate with their installer and ensure that they have the right solution in place . do the Minister agree that there need to be a change of tone and language ? it be all very well for the Government , the regulator or the company to feel the urgency , but if customer do not sense that , we will not get the pace that be require . she talk about how it be a big job , and we can all agree on that . it be a big job that need to be complete in very little time , so it be not just about the scale but about the pace . if we can not get customer energise and exercise about the need to get that do , that pace will not happen . I completely agree with the hon . member . we have say to supplier that they must inform all affected customer by 31 December to make sure that we be inject that sense of urgency , both within the supply chain and , critically , among customer . there be a collective job for we all to make sure that those who be affect be aware that this be happen . that be why this debate be so important . that be why I be keen to engage with member from across the House to ensure that we be get that message out to constituent . critically , the taskforce have be ask to establish work partnership with local authority , housing provider and other customer - face organisation , so that we can get the word out that this be happen , that customer need to engage and that they must get in touch with their supplier so we can provide the good possible option for they as we move forward . my experience be that the energy company have be in touch with I . the tone of the email have be quite pushy , which be what we be talk about , in that they need to be push quite hard on customer to make that change and get the right meter in place . however , when I have subsequently be in touch with they — I do not have a smart meter yet ; it be come in January — the first time there be no appointment and they be unable to answer that simple question of whether it will be cheap . I can not stress enough how much I have have to push they to get that answer out of they . I be not a vulnerable customer ; I understand why this be happen , like everybody else in the Chamber . vulnerable customer , however , may just accept that . there be a sense of urgency that need to be inject , but it need to come with a note of caution about how it be inject and how it be communicate , and it need to make sure that customer understand how much they be likely to be pay . there also need to be a transitional arrangement so that if somebody get the wrong tariff , they be not penalise for that and it can be change . I thank the hon . member for raise his personal experience of the issue . from the perspective of the Government , it be very important that we have sight of where it be not work , because we need to ensure that it be work for consumer . there be a question about capacity that we be very exercised about . we be try to work with supplier to ensure , particularly in rural area , that we be put in roam team and build the capacity to be able to respond in a way that be timely , and sensitive to the fact that we be ask consumer to make a transition and go through disruption . smart meter be the natural upgrade for RTS , and we have energy supplier that will be offer they . if we get this right , smart meter be an opportunity to upgrade people ' s home , and critically , for they to access smart tariff that will give they great control and reduce bill . I urge consumer to discuss the option with their energy supplier . I acknowledge that , particularly in rural area where we have large number of RTS user , we have low level of smart meter coverage and installer capacity . to address that , we be actively encourage energy supplier to ensure that they be build capacity . we be look at roam team , and how we manage demand across different geography . we know that there be issue with network coverage , and we be work with the data communication company to ensure that we be resolve they . in a minority of case where household can not connect , we be advise they to engage with their energy supplier to think about the right solution for their home . it would be remiss of I not to acknowledge that customer have genuine concern and scepticism about smart meter ; we have receive that intelligence as much as other hon . member have across the House . it be worth say that there be 37 million smart and advanced meter in home and small business across the country — 65 % of all smart meter . our analysis and datum suggest that 90 % of smart meter be send automatic signal and working , but for too many customer the experience of smart metering be not as good as it ought to be . the number of meter that be not work across the country be problematic , and we be try to build confidence . there be a really important job for we to do in work with the regulator to deal with those particular issue . the Government be work with Ofgem to introduce new guarantee standard of performance to improve and protect consumer experience with smart meter , offer compensation when the system be fall short for consumer . Ofgem will be consult to introduce those new standard in the new year . let I end by touch on the wide point about public confidence , which be key to we get this transition right . I acknowledge that some consumer have lose faith in the energy supplier , and the level of satisfaction have damage consumer confidence . we hear that when we engage with customer . we absolutely must and be try to do more to prioritise and protect consumer in the transition , both with RTS and more widely on home upgrade and our warm home plan . that be why the Government be strengthen the regulator to ensure that it can hold company to account for wrongdoing and can require high standard of performance , as well as ensure that there be automatic consumer compensation where failure occur . there be a lot to do , but I hope I have reassure the House that we be aware of the challenge and be do everything we can to grip the problem and to get the regulator and supplier to work with partner on the ground to make the transition as smooth as possible . I again thank the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens for raise the profile of this important issue and highlight the need of all community . we have to get this right , and I confirm my desire to work in concert with hon . member across the House to make this as easy for constituent as possible . question put and agree to . sit adjourn .