Speaker ' s Statement before we begin , I be sure the whole House will wish to join I in remember the life and service of his Holiness Pope Francis . he be both a humble man and a charismatic leader who be unafraid to confront some of the great challenge face the world . he will be deeply miss by those of all faith around the world , and in particular our thought be with member of the roman catholic community throughout the United Kingdom as they mourn his passing . oral Answers to Questions Justice the Secretary of State be ask — Female Offenders what step her Department be take to support female offender . what step her Department be take to support female offender . this government ' s plan to support woman be clear and ambitious . the aim be to reduce the number of woman go to prison , and our Women ' s Justice Board will lead on this . follow Susannah Hancock ' s review , which be publish in March , this Government have act to prevent girl from be hold in young offender institution . I have be very concerned to hear first - hand report of female prisoner be handcuff during childbirth , sometimes to male officer . do the Minister agree that there should be an independent investigation into the use of birth cuff in woman ' s prison across the country that consult all woman who have be or may be affect ? my hon . friend refer to a shocking situation . our policy be clear that pregnant woman should not be restrain during hospital appointment , except in the most exceptional circumstance . there be an ongoing deep - dive review take place into matter at HMP Bronzefield , commission by the prison Minister in the other place . I thank the Minister for his response . in my constituency , Hope Street be do incredible work to offer residential alternative to custody for woman . we know that this model reduce the number of woman be send to prison , prevent separation from their child , who be likely to be take into care , which we all know have a hugely detrimental impact . can the Minister share any plan to replicate and scale up the Hope Street model ? I agree with my hon . friend that for some woman support accommodation be very valuable . exist provision include his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service - lead community accommodation service and third sector residential woman ' s centre , include Hope Street , which she rightly praise for its excellent work . the Women ' s Justice Board be explore option to increase use of robust community alternative to custody , include residential option where appropriate . project SHE in Somerset , run by the Nelson Trust , allow some woman who have be arrest for the first time for low - level crime an alternative to court , work with offender on rehabilitation and reduce the impact on the community and the criminal justice system . what support be the Department provide for such scheme ? these scheme be very important . the hon . member highlight a very good one , and the Department continue to support those sort of scheme . do the Minister agree that counselling service be crucial in support female offender as they address trauma , addiction and mental health challenge ? furthermore , will she join I in commend the charity uHub in my constituency for its exceptional counselling service for young woman ? the hon . member mention an excellent counselling service in his constituency , which I praise . these counselling service be crucial and a very important part of the system . I call the shadow Secretary of State . it have be six day since the Supreme Court hand down its landmark judgment in the case bring by for Women Scotland — a judgment that confirm basic biological reality and protect woman and girl . it be a Conservative Government who bring in the policy to stop male offender , however they identify , be hold in the woman ' s estate , especially those convict of violence or sexual offence . will the Lord Chancellor and her Ministers confirm that the Government will implement the Supreme Court judgment in full and that they will take personal responsibility for ensure that it be in every aspect of our justice system , or do they agree with senior Ministers in their party who now appear to be actively plot to undermine the Supreme Court ' s judgment ? we inherit the current policy on transgender people in the prison service and we have continue the policy that the right hon . Gentleman describe during our period in office . in the light of last week ' s Supreme Court ruling , the Department be review all area that could be impact . Sentencing Council what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the Sentencing Council . the Sentencing Council do important work bring consistency to judicial decision making , but it be clear in recent week that it have move beyond that role to take in policy that be not mine and not the Government ' s . a review of the role and power of the Sentencing Council be ongoing and I will legislate far if necessary . draft guideline from the Sentencing Council now propose substantially low sentence for immigration offence than level agree by Parliament , so will the Lord Chancellor call on the Sentencing Council to revise those guideline , so that they align with the time period agree by Parliament ? the guideline set a starting point for a sentence — that be usually the point of the guideline . judge can sentence outside the guideline range if they believe that be in the interest of justice . the guideline set only a starting point , not an end point , which remain in the purview of judge sit in their independent capacity in our court . we be not seek to overturn the immigration guideline . in case there be hon . member who be labour under misinformation , I should say that it be an important point of fact that foreign national offender and immigration offender who receive sentence of less than 12 month can still be deport , and under this government they will be . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . when it enact the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 , Parliament decide that the Sentencing Council should be chair by a judicial member , appoint by the Lady Chief Justice . do the Lord Chancellor agree that member of this House should respect the principle of judicial independence when discuss the leadership of the Sentencing Council ? when judge be act as judge , they be act in their independent capacity . all member of this House should respect judicial independence . my hon . friend will know that my disagreement with the Sentencing Council relate to where the line be draw between matter that be correctly within the purview of our independent judiciary and matter that relate to policy that be correctly within the purview of this place . I call the shadow Secretary of State . today , the Justice Secretary be belatedly introduce a Bill to restore fairness in who receive a pre - sentence report , but it will not correct what the pre - sentence report say . under brand - new guidance that the Justice Secretary ' s Department issue in January , pre - sentence report must consider the " culture " of an offender and take into account whether they have suffer " intergenerational trauma " from " important historical event " . evidently , the Labour party do not believe in individual responsibility and agency . instead of treat people equally , it believe in cultural relativism . this time the Justice Secretary have nobody else to blame but herself . will she change that or be there two - tier justice ? be that the Labour party ' s policy now ? what a load of nonsense . I be the Lord Chancellor who be rectify the situation with the proper distinction between matter of policy and matter of independent judicial decision through the Bill that we will debate on Second reading later today . I have already deal with the issue in relation to the immigration guideline . the right hon . Gentleman have make some comment about that which do not bear resemblance to fact , so perhaps he would like to correct the record . on the bail guidance and on all other guidance that relate to equality before the law , I have say that we be review absolutely everything . I will ensure that under this Government equality before the law be never a principle that be compromise , although it be compromise under the Conservative Government . hyper - prolific Offending what step she be take through the criminal justice system to help tackle hyper - prolific offending . what step she be take through the criminal justice system to help tackle hyper - prolific offending . this Government inherit a situation where around 10 % of offender account for over half of all conviction . we also inherit rise level of theft and shoplifting . in February , I announce reform to the probation service that will focus more of its time on offender who pose a high risk of reoffende , and I have ask David Gauke to review how sentence could be reform to address prolific offending , cut the cycle of reoffende and ultimately make our street safe . in my constituency there be a particular problem of hyper - prolific shoplifting . there be no credible deterrent and it be a scourge on our local community and shop owner . can the Justice Secretary rule out any possibility of allow career criminal to avoid prison , even for short sentence ? first , in the Crime and Policing Bill this Government have remove the effective immunity from prosecution for theft relate to value under £ 200 , so we be already take clear , definitive action to deal with the problem that the hon . Gentleman see in his constituency . I will not pre - empt the finding of the sentencing review . I be interested in how we ensure that those who he correctly describe as career criminal turn their back on a life of crime , because in the end that be the good strategy for cut crime and make our street safe . tool theft have a devastating impact on tradespeople and their family across the country . that be why I be pleased to support the shadow Justice Secretary , Sidcup police , on the Tools , Checkatrade and other in tool - mark initiative and raid at boot sale where steal good be normally sell , but there be more to do across the criminal justice system to tackle this issue . will the Government support conservative amendment to the Crime and Policing Bill and ensure that these prolific offender face tough sentence and tradespeople get the justice they finally deserve ? I hope the hon . Gentleman will welcome effort on the Labour back Benches relate to tool trade ; my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) have introduce a private member ' s Bill . as I say , I will not pre - empt the finding of the sentencing review , but it be precisely because we take such offending very seriously that I ask the review to consider carefully intervention that will work in ensure that offender turn their back on a life of crime , ultimately help we to cut the crime that they cause , which create victim in the process . I know we all want to ensure that that be the case . as far as specific amendment to the Crime and Policing Bill be concern , I be sure that the Ministers responsible will respond in due course . rise — follow his engagement , I call Alistair Strathern . thank you , Mr Speaker — that be very kind . in less encouraging news , far too many retailer across my town and village , include my local morrison , be be hit by repeat shoplifting , which be all too often drive by prolific offender and criminal gang . how be the Secretary of State work with the Home Office to ensure that we be finally take the scourge of shoplifting as seriously as we should ? as I say , we have already remove the effective immunity from prosecution for theft relate to value under £ 200 , reverse the previous Conservative Government ' s policy in this area . we will legislate to ensure that assault on a retail worker be a new offence in the Crime and Policing Bill , so we be already take measure to help my hon . friend and his constituent with the issue they face . as I say , it be because we take this type of offend particularly seriously that I ask the sentencing review to consider the specific of prolific offender . early this month , Bovis House in Hartlepool , which host a number of business , be rob . the people who do that be so well know that within minute of the CCTV footage be put on social medium , people be message I their name . these be hyper - prolific offender ; tiny number of people be responsible for huge amount of crime . do the Justice Secretary agree that the only solution be to lock they up for long ? the solution we pursue have to be show to work . in the end , we need solution that will work , because these people be often lock up for considerable period of time , and when they come back out they still offend again . for some of those individual , the problem will relate partly to addiction issue . it be important that we trial and use method that help people to cut their addiction and usage in order to stop they commit crime fuel by that addiction . as I say , that will need a multi - layered response . I be determined that we will crack down on the scourge of prolific offender ; that be the only strategy for cut crime , and we be determined to pursue it . we want to have measure that work , which be why I ask the sentencing review to consider they specifically . young offender : staffordshire what step her Department be take to support young offender in Staffordshire . this year , the Department will provide more than £ 1 million in funding to the Staffordshire youth offend team to supervise child and support they in turn their back on a life of crime . at the election , we promise to take action to reduce youth offending , with a network of Young Futures hub and a crackdown on antisocial behaviour which cause so much pain to my constituent and to people up and down our country . criminal must face the full force of the law , and young offender can not be a lost cause . will the Minister confirm that this Government will do whatever we can to divert young people away from a lifetime of crime ? my hon . friend be exactly right . we must do whatever we can to move people away from a life of crime and keep the public safe . this year , despite the fiscal challenge we inherit , we be invest more than £ 100 million in youth offend team across the country to identify child and divert they away from crime . with turnaround funding , staffordshire youth offend team deliver skill - building activity for child in antisocial behaviour hotspot during a successful six - week summer programme . rise — be we really sure that this question be link to young people in staffordshire commit crime ? it might not be about Staffordshire , but we also have young people in Devon . we have a case in my constituency of a young offender who have be arrest multiple time and put under a court order , but the presumption be against incarceration because of his age . local resident tell I that there be a disaster wait to happen — order . the hon . member be not link her question to the original , so we be go to move on . reoffende : young People what step her Department be take to help reduce level of reoffende among young people . what step her Department be take to help reduce level of reoffende among young people . the Government be determined to reduce youth reoffende as part of our safe street mission . despite the huge fiscal challenge we inherit , we have be able to increase our core funding to youth offend team across the country , allow they to support child away from crime . constituent across my community of Loughborough , Shepshed and the village have be face the scourge of offroad bike , often ride by young reoffender . that cause havoc for resident , it be dangerous for pedestrian , and can be fatal for those who be on those bike . those young reoffender often have little else to do , as there be few education , training or employment opportunity , so can the Minister please set out how this Government will end the scourge of offroad bike and reoffende , and how they will once again be tough on crime and tough on the cause of crime ? my hon . friend be exactly right . in the past , antisocial behaviour have be too easily dismiss as low - level , but as he rightly describe , it can cause real distress and misery to our community . I be pleased that the new Crime and Policing Bill include measure to enhance police power to seize nuisance offroad bike and other vehicle use in an antisocial manner . engineer Learning in Derby teach welding skill to young people at risk of offend and reoffende . a qualified , experienced welder can earn more than £ 50 , 000 , yet we have a national shortage of welder . do the Minister agree that prevent reoffende and secure the skill our country need be a win - win , and will he look at how we can get more young life back on track , learn trade such as welding ? my hon . friend be exactly right . what Engineered Learning be do be a clear win - win , teach welding skill and move people away from crime . the Department will continue fund youth offend team to work with local education and employment provider to help young people get the skill they need to have productive career and positive life . aspiration and ambition be driver of social mobility and help to reduce deprivation and crime . what discussion have the Minister have with the Department for Education to increase apprenticeship and training , so that these opportunity can be extend to all and we can reduce young offending throughout the UK ? we have regular discussion with the Department for Education on these matter . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : the more young people we get into training , education and work , the less crime we should have on our street . I thank the Minister very much for that answer . quite clearly , those who reoffend do so because they go back to where the peer pressure be , where the unemployment be , and where poverty level be high . those be thing that must be address in order to help these young people not to reoffend . they be big issue ; what can be do to ensure those three thing in the locality where those young people live do not overtake they , with the problem they have ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that all those issue contribute to circumstance that might create offend , but it be really good that we have the turnaround programme in place . only 5 % of child who complete their turnaround intervention receive conviction in their first year of the programme . that be an example of the sort of programme we need to be engage in to turn young people away from crime . legal aid : rural Areas what step she be take to increase access to legal aid in rural area . wherever they be in England and Wales , people should benefit from equal access to legal support and legal aid . remote technology and provision of online advice present the opportunity both to democratise legal advice and to deliver it to all who need to access it . we be invest an additional £ 92 million to support the sustainability of the criminal legal aid sector , and we be consult on fee increase total £ 20 million for housing and immigration to increase access to civil legal aid . all of this will support legal aid across the country , include in rural area . North Norfolk be a legal aid desert . my resident have precious little access to family , criminal and housing legal assistance , despite the good effort of local organisation such as the Norfolk Community Law Service . we face huge barrier to recruitment and retention in rural area , such as the cost of housing , poor public transport and fee that , despite the uprating , be still too low . thing need to change . will the Minister meet I and those work in the legal aid sector in North Norfolk to discuss what we can do to support those in need in area such as mine ? I thank the hon . member for raise the issue of legal aid desert , and I welcome his suggestion that he write to I about these thing . I regularly meet legal aid provider , and that be why we be invest an additional £ 6 million in legal support , which provide that early advice that can make a real difference in area such as his . Cornwall be a big rural legal aid desert . we have many volunteer who would be prepared to help and Citizens Advice could act as an umbrella organisation . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can get some of that funding for access to legal aid in rural area into Cornwall ? my hon . friend be right to raise the importance of early legal support and legal aid . that be why we be invest in online provision . as I have say , remote technology can make a real difference in area such as hers . before I come to this place , I volunteer in a free legal advice centre , so I know just how much of a difference such institution can make . domestic violence : Bail condition what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of policy apply to bail condition in domestic violence case . this Government have commit to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . a broad range of bail condition can be impose to protect victim , include electronic monitoring for those who meet the remand threshold , exclusion zone and non - contact order . suspect can also be remand in prison . I raise this issue follow a meeting with a constituent whose case raise deep concern that be more widely relevant . first , bail condition — sometimes weak , sometimes poorly enforce — do not always protect victim of domestic violence from further harassment by their abuser . secondly , despite the increase in the time limit to two year under the 2022 regulation , the six - month limit for prosecution mean that some case time out . will the Minister meet I and my constituent to discuss what more can be do to ensure that victim of domestic abuse be fully protect from their abuser ? I thank the hon . member for raise this important issue from her constituency . we know that more need to be do in this area , and that be why this Government have start to roll out our domestic abuse protection order to help victim of domestic abuse in select area . we be see how that go . we be develop policy in this area to protect victim , and woman and girl in particular . I would be more than happy to meet she to discuss what more we can do . have speak to Essex police and other professional , and have work for a homeless charity myself , I know that often the hard part for victim of domestic violence be make the decision to leave what be sometimes the family home . what work have the Minister do with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to address this issue ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue . tackle violence against woman and girl be not just a Ministry of Justice problem to fix , but a problem for every Government Department to fix . that be why I have meet with my counterpart across the Departments , include in MHCLG , to discuss housing need . we will be publish our violence against woman and girl strategy later this year , and I look forward to discuss it with he in due course . reoffende on Probation what step her Department be take to help reduce level of reoffende by people on probation . I take this opportunity to recognise the excellent work that our probation staff do day in , day out . Probation be an indispensable part of the criminal justice system , but the service currently face significant pressure . that be why we will recruit a furth 1 , 300 probation officer by March 2026 , invest £ 8 million in new technology to reduce administrative task for officer and focus effort on reduce reoffende . may I take this opportunity to wish you a belate Pask lowen , Mr Speaker ? reoffender be among the most socially exclude in society and often experience complex mental health and social issue , include drug and alcohol addiction . we know that perpetually lock they up do not work and cost a fortune . can the Minister reassure I that he be work with both the Home Office and the Department of Health and Social Care to ensure that wraparound detox and rehabilitation support be available , such as that offer by Bosence Farm in Cornwall ? yes , I can reassure my hon . friend . we work with the Department of Health and Social Care and the Home Office to get offender into treatment at the early opportunity , and have increase the use of drug rehabilitation requirement as well as improve link to ensure that prison leaver stay in treatment on release . in 2025 - 26 , the DHSC be provide £ 310 million in additional target grant to enable local authority , include Cornwall , to improve service . because our prison be run at about 98 % capacity , not only be exist prisoner more likely to reoffend but , sadly , as we allow more prisoner to be release early , more people on probation will do so . apart from the terrible effect on victim , the Ministry itself estimate that this cost a staggering £ 18 billion a year in England and Wales . what be the Minister ' s policy to help reduce reoffende ? we have only just take over a system that be struggle under the weight of 14 year of mismanagement , and we be do our very good to get on top of it . we have set in train an independent sentencing review , and be commit to appoint 1 , 300 new probation officer by this time next year . Prison Capacity : Northern Ireland what recent discussion she have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on trend in level of prison capacity . Ministry of Justice official regularly meet representative of the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland , as part of the " Five Nations Forum " , to discuss prison capacity . this allow good practice to be share and emerge issue to be discuss . the Prisons Minister in the other place know the Northern Ireland prison system well , and will be go there later this year to compare note . the Minister have mention good practice . the " separated regime " in Northern Ireland prison give those who have be commit to prison as a result of paramilitary activity a special kudo , and when they be release they emerge with a certain status . can the Minister see the inherent danger of apply such a policy on a wide scale when deal with people who may have be radicalise while in prison and may , when release , bring the effect of that into a broad section of society ? the hon . member be right to suggest that we need to learn lesson from wherever they can be learn , and he be right to caution against approach that might bring about result that people do not wish to see . Court Backlogs what step she be take to tackle court backlog . this Government inherit a record rise in court backlog . the last Conservative Government let down victim of crime , business , worker and family , all through their neglect and under - investment . this government be grip the crisis : to date we have fund a record high allocation of 110 , 000 Crown court sit day for next year , and we be , and intend to be , at or close to the maximum in every jurisdiction . we be fix the last Government ' s mess . I recently meet representative of the Rape and Sexual Abuse Support Centre in my constituency . they support hundred of survivor every year through counselling , advice , and carry out vital prevention work in school and the wide community , but , as they explain to I , their work be be undermine by a justice system that be in crisis . trial be routinely delay , sometimes for up to four year , owe to a chronic shortage of judge , and as a result some victim be consider drop their case — not because they do not want justice , but because they can not cope with such a traumatic experience . that be a gross injustice . I be grateful to the Minister for her answer , but will she expand specifically on how the Government will help to prevent re - traumatisation in the court backlog process , and on how they will continue to fund organisation such as RASASC ? we recognise the traumatic impact of delay in our Crown court on victim of violence against woman and girl and , indeed , victim of all crime . the good thing we can do for those victim be deliver swifter justice . we will do that not just by spend extra money — which we have do — but through reform , so we have ask Sir Brian Leveson to propose bold and ambitious measure to deliver the swifter justice for which the hon . Member have ask . I recently meet , in my constituency , two people whose son and daughter - in - law have be brutally kill in June 2023 . nearly two year on , the case have yet to come to court . it have be delay five time , and a date in October have now be set . on each occasion , the delay have cause huge anguish to the family . will the Minister agree to meet I to discuss this matter , and can she tell I what step the Government be take to ensure that trial be conduct promptly so that justice can be receive by such family ? I be desperately sorry to hear about the case that my hon . friend describe . once again , the good thing that we can do for those family , to ensure that they get swifter justice and get their day in court in a timely fashion , be bear down on the Crown court backlog . that be why we be wait for Sir Brian Leveson to report in the spring , and why we will act promptly on his recommendation . private Law Proceedings : child Safety what step her Department be take to ensure child safety during private law proceeding . the welfare of the child must be the paramount consideration for family court , which should follow the welfare checklist , as set out in the Children Act 1989 . our new approach to private law proceeding — the pathfinder pilot court — focus on problem solve , put great emphasis on the voice of the child , but we be acutely aware that more need to be do . the previous Government ' s harm panel report state that there be a crisis in family court and that they be too pro - parental contact , despite there be concern about the child ' s safety . as with many thing under the previous Government , the Conservatives do nothing about the report . will this Government and the Minister commit to reverse the parental presumption where there be concern about child abuse ? as I have state , the child ' s welfare must be the court ' s paramount consideration . the presumption of parental involvement state that a court should " presume , unless the contrary be show , that involvement of that parent in the life of the child will further the child ' s welfare . " I take this opportunity to state , however , that that apply only if the parent do not put the child at risk of harm . we will publish our review of the presumption in due course . Standard Determinate sentence : early Release what recent assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the standard determinate sentence 40 % early release scheme . the last Government leave our prison in crisis . we come within day of run out of space entirely , and the emergency release programme be design to stop that crisis happen . number be rise again , which be why this Government be commit to build 14 , 000 prison place by 2031 , compare with the 500 that the last Conservative Government add in 14 year , and to reform sentencing so that we never run out of prison place again . last month , the Prisons Minister say that the long time that an early - release prisoner have be leave to wander the street without an electronic tag be 53 day . however , just over a week ago , it be report that prisoner have not be tag for up to 78 day . can the Secretary of State please clarify this apparent inconsistency ? we be transparent with the House about the problem with tag during the second tranche of emergency release last year . I will ensure that we publish the correct information , and I can write to the hon . Lady with the exact figure , but we have be hold Serco to account , because its performance on its contract have be unacceptable . we have levy fine , and we have say that all option be on the table for any further action that we might need to take . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . one of the die act of the last Conservative Government be to shake hand with Serco on an electronic tagging contract that Channel 4 ' s " Dispatches " find be completely inadequate . People with serious conviction be leave without tag for day and week . victim and survivor be fail , include survivor of those release early under the SDS40 scheme . what will the Secretary of State do to hold Serco to account for these failure , and to clear up the mess that be fundamentally create by the failure of the last government ? the hon . member be right : this be one of the many difficult inheritance leave for we by the previous Conservative Government . the contract with Serco be agree by the previous Conservative Administration . we acknowledge that the performance of Serco have be unacceptable . we have already be closely monitor — day by day — its performance and delivery under the contract , and we have impose fine for poor performance . some of the issue relate to the SDS40 emergency release be ultimately deal with after close oversight by official and Ministers , and we continue to monitor the contract very closely . as I have say , should further fine or other measure be require , all option be on the table . intimate Image Abuse what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle intimate image abuse . we be introduce new offence of take intimate image without consent and instal equipment with intent to commit such offence . we be also criminalise create deepfake intimate image without consent . I proudly co - chair the violence against woman and girl ministerial group , which oversee a cross - Government approach to tackle VAWG , include online abuse . I thank the Minister for her answer . sexually explicit deepfake be a scourge on our society , whether it be young boy in their bedroom make they of their fellow pupil and teacher , or those who create explicit image of celebrity to order . how will the legislation the Government intend to bring forward on this help victim of this disgusting abuse and punish those who perpetrate it ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . this Government be commit to halve violence against woman and girl over a decade , and that include the horrendous , degrading and humiliating crime of take intimate image without consent , as well as create deepfake image without consent . for far too long , these crime have go unpunished , with perpetrator allow to carry this out at will and to cover their sick behaviour under the rule of banter . we will not stand for it : we be legislate , and we be protect woman and girl . Bail guideline if she will have discussion with the HM Prison and Probation Service on the potential merit of review its guideline on bail . equality before the law be a cornerstone of our justice system , and my position on this be clear . later today , this House will debate legislation to overturn guideline that the last Conservative Government welcome , and I be not stop there . I be review current policy , and this guidance be be redrafte as we speak , include on the approach to bail information for court . after the conviction of eight man for a string of horrendous child rape offence in Keighley , I wish I could stand here and say that justice have be fully serve , but I can not , because two of these man — dual national — abscond during their trial , be still evade justice and be know to be abroad . do the Secretary of State agree that in such serious case , where dual or foreign national be charge with the most grotesque and serious sexual crime against child , the court should be under a duty to impose strict bail condition , include surrender passport and electronic monitoring , or even to provide no bail condition , to stop they flee the country and evade justice ? first , I share the hon . member ' s outrage over the crime that be commit in his community , and the fact that two of those individual have be able to leave the country , and therefore evade the full force of the law and serve their sentence here . he will know that the decision to remand an individual in custody or on bail be solely a matter for the independent judiciary , and court be already require to consider the likelihood to abscond as part of that decision . more broadly , court have the power to impose a broad range of robust bail condition , include the surrender of passport , electronically monitor exclusion zone and curfew . he know that I can not comment on the specific , because that be a matter for the independent judge who sit on that case and make that decision , but those be the rule that apply , and I would be happy to discuss that far with he if he wish . Prison Reform what step her Department be take to reform the prison system . we inherit a system in crisis from the previous Government . with prison over 99 % full , we take immediate action to prevent the collapse of the prison system by change the automatic release point for standard determinate sentence . we be build 14 , 000 new prison place , and we publish our 10 - year capacity strategy in December . however , we know that we can not build our way out of this crisis , which be why we have also launch an independent sentencing review to ensure that we will never run out of place again . as Ministers will know from previous question about Parc Prison , parent in Newport East have very serious concern about the welfare of family member there , with worrying report continue to emerge in recent month . can the Minister give an update on any progress be make on prison safety , mental health support and drug interception since Parc have be receive targeted support ? safety in prison be a key priority , and we be work hard to make prison as safe as possible . my hon . friend be right to highlight the concern at Parc . I have recently visit HMP Parc , as have the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , and the Prisons Minister in the other place . on that visit , I see how seriously the director be take these issue and engage closely with family on their very real concern . the catastrophic security failure at HMP Frankland have expose the danger that terrorist prisoner can pose to prison officer and other inmate across the prison estate . will the independent review also examine the culture of gang - relate violence and intimidation that have contribute to such incident in our prison ? there be an ongoing audit of all the review ' s recommendation . our thought remain with our brave prison officer who be attack , and with the victim of the Manchester Arena bombing and their family , who be understandably concerned by the shocking event in HMP Frankland . my right hon . friend the Lord Chancellor take immediate action to set a review in place . I call the shadow Minister . personal protective equipment be now wear in all kind of job where people may have to deal with dangerous situation . as Professor Acheson have say , it be " stagger that frontline police staff work in condition of far great peril … be not issue with stab vest capable of stop an attack with a bladed weapon . " we should all be ensure that our prison officer come home safe to their love one . union have call for this measure , and I can assure the Minister that they have the full support of those on the Opposition side of the House . will he act — not in two month or six month , but now — to protect prison officer before it be too late ? that be part of the review that have be announce . my right hon . friend the Lord Chancellor be meet the Prison Officers Association tomorrow . these thing need to be do rightly and properly , and that be what will happen with this Government . I thank the Minister for his answer , but I suggest that this be something we should just get on with — it be common sense . there be a more fundamental issue . perhaps I can invite the Minister to provide his assessment of the relative threat provide by different ideological extremist in prison , which may be fuel such violence . islamist terror suspect make up the vast majority of MI5 ' s caseload . do they also make up the majority of radicalise criminal in our prison estate ? the hon . Gentleman urge we to get on with it . by my reckoning , the conservative party have 14 year to get on with it . we be get on with it . we set up the snap review straightaway . [ interruption . ] " it ' s not party political , " he say . well , people might judge that for themselves by listen to the sort of question we have have today . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . key agent of reform in our prison be prison officer . unlocked Graduates be an amazing scheme that support the production of prison officer with new innovation , but it have have the rug pull from underneath its foot , beyond its current cohort . there be mixed account of what have happen from different civil servant and other individual in government . will the Minister explain exactly what have happen ? why have the contract not work ? will he sit down with I and unlocked Graduates to see if we can find a way forward ? I very much praise the work that unlocked Graduates have do over many year . unfortunately , when the contract be let previously , Unlocked Graduates be unhappy to progress with the contract . that be the situation . obviously , these thing be very difficult , but I be very happy to meet the hon . member to discuss matter far . legal aid what step she be take to increase the provision of legal aid service . on prison , the inheritance be dire ; on Crown court backlog , the inheritance be dire ; and on legal aid service , once again the inheritance have be absolutely dire . this government be rebuild the legal aid system for those it serve and those who serve in it . that be why , in December , we announce up to £ 92 million more a year for criminal legal aid solicitor , on top of £ 24 million already announce for duty solicitor in police station . we be also consult on uplift , as I say , in housing and immigration legal aid fee , worth an additional £ 20 million a year — the first increase in civil legal aid fee since 1996 . the Conservatives leave legal aid in a mess , like so many other thing , so I welcome the sum the Minister be announce , but can she assure I that the money will reach Ealing ? we have never even have a citizen advice bureau — not in the 10 year I have be the MP , and not in the 50 year I have be on the planet — to refer constituent to . can she assure we that my constituent can get the access to justice they deserve ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s question . the Legal aid Agency keep contract under review to ensure that there be provision right across the country , include in Ealing . as I say early , the additional money go into legal support , which include advice service , such as citizen advice bureaux , law centre and other advice provider , will reach constituent just like hers , both remotely and face to face . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . the House will be aware of the attack at HMP Frankland on 12 April . the bravery of the officer involve undoubtedly save life , and my thought be with they as they recover . I think also of the victim of the Manchester arena bombing and their family , who be understandably outraged . since the attack , I have suspend access to kitchen in separation centre and close supervision centre . an independent review will ascertain how the incident be able to happen , what more must be do to protect prison staff and , more widely , how separation centre be run , and the prison service will also conduct a snap review of the use of protective body armour . in addition , I can today announce that his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service will trial the use of taser in our prison . wherever we can strengthen our defence to well protect our staff and the public , we will do so . the horrific attack in Nottingham on 13 June 2023 cost Barnaby Webber , Grace o ' Malley - Kumar and Ian Coates their life . I pay tribute to their family and the survivor , many of whom be in the Public Gallery today . the Prime Minister promise that we would heed their call for a public inquiry , and I can today announce that a full statutory inquiry will take place , chair by her Honour Deborah Taylor and with the power to compel witness . I will place its full term of reference in the Libraries of both Houses at the early opportunity . the inquiry must be thorough in its assessment of the fact and unspare in its recommendation — that be the very least that we owe those who have lose so much and fight so hard for this moment . I be sure that this House , so often divide , will be unite on that at least today . I associate myself with the Lord Chancellor ' s comment and extend my sympathy to the family of those who be attack . in Bordon , the release of a sex offender to a property near the Hogmoor inclosure — frequently use by young people , family and child — have cause consternation in my constituency . what be the Lord Chancellor do to ensure that people who have be convict of sex offence be properly monitor when release into the community ? do our national and local agency have the resource and power to ensure that these risk be monitor and the public be keep safe ? we have robust process in place to ensure that those offender can be monitor effectively at both national and local level and that those monitor mechanism be as robust as possible . I will happily look into the case that the hon . Gentleman raise and ensure that he get a ministerial response . the Conservatives preside over 14 year of total failure in our justice system . let I be topical . to restore justice in this country and keep my constituent safe , we can not just do more of the same ; we need more transparency about the time criminal spend in jail , and common - sense sentencing must mean exactly that . how do the Secretary of State think technology can help to make that possible ? I must caution Conservatives Members against groan . I appreciate that they might not be proud of their record — I would not be if that be the record I have leave behind after leave government — but groaning show the contempt in which they hold the public , who have have to suffer the consequence of a truly dire conservative party legacy . my hon . friend be right that technology can — and we hope will — provide well solution to the management and supervision of offender in the community . I look forward to the sentencing review ' s finding in that regard . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I support the Lord Chancellor ' s decision to commission a full statutory inquiry into the terrible attack in Nottingham . I know it will be welcome by the family and everyone in the city and across my home county of Nottinghamshire . I fully support her welcome decision . Greg Ó Ceallaigh be a serve immigration judge who decide asylum and deportation appeal . it take nothing more than a basic Google search to uncover his past comment that the conservative party should be treat the same way as Nazis and cancer . as a sit judge , he have publicly support labour ' s plan to scrap the Rwanda scheme and for illegal entry into the United Kingdom to be decriminalise . do the Lord Chancellor believe this be compatible with judicial impartiality ? if not , what do she intend to do about it ? first , I thank the right hon . gentleman for his remark on the new Nottingham inquiry — I be very grateful for his support . I be sure the whole House will want to see the inquiry come to a conclusion as quickly as possible . I say to the right hon . Gentleman that when people have a complaint to make about judge , they can do so via the well - place mechanism of the judicial complaint office . if he wish to make a complaint , he can do so , but what I will not do be indulge in , effectively , the doxing of judge , especially not when they be simply do their job of apply the law in the case that appear before they . if there be complaint to be make about judicial conduct , I be sure the shadow Lord Chancellor know how to go about it . order . can I just say that we must be careful about what we do here ? we be not mean to criticise judge , and I know that this House would not do so . I be sure that we will now change the topic . Mr Speaker , it be important that judge and the manner in which they be appoint be properly scrutinise in this House , and I will not shy away from do so . Helen Pitcher be force to resign in disgrace as the chair of the Criminal Cases Review Commission after a formal panel find that she have fail in her duty during one of the bad miscarriage of justice in recent memory . but she be still in charge of judicial appointment , despite judge appear in the medium every week for their activism . her commission have fail to conduct the most basic check on potential judge , either out of sheer incompetence , or out of sympathy with their hard - leave view on open border . the commission be break and be bring the independence of the judiciary into disrepute . how much long will it take for the Justice Secretary to act and remove the chair of this commission from her position and defend the independence and reputation of the judiciary ? I be afraid that the shadow Chancellor can not elide the process for the appointment of judge with a wide attack on the independence of the judiciary . I hope that he will take the admonishment from you , Mr Speaker , and the clear disapprobation of this House to reflect on the way that he be approach his role . if there be complaint to be make about judicial conduct , there be already a robust process in place for do so . if the shadow Lord Chancellor wish to avail himself of that , I be sure that , give how active he be , he will be happy to do so . what be completely improper be to take his position in this House to indulge in a wide attack of the judiciary at a time when we know that judicial security have be compromise — order . this be the time for topical question , and we have other member to get in . tension be run high , so let we calm everyone down with a question from Warinder Juss . on a recent visit to Featherstone Prison near Wolverhampton , I come across a number of recall prisoner who be there for minor technical breach of their probation — sometimes for up to a year . can the Secretary of State please outline what datum be collect on the reason for prison recall and how that datum then inform policy decision aim at reduce unnecessary return to custody ? I be happy to write to my hon . friend on the detail of the data collection and remind he that we have a sentencing review in process that will be look at all of those thing . in a single week in Bradford , we have see council leader once again reject my call for a full rape gang inquiry . an ex - police officer have be threaten with arrest for investigate these horrific crime , and now a judge be block the release of official transcript from a major rape gang trial in Bradford . can the Lord Chancellor explain why our justice system be be use to block the truth about these trial ? it be not appropriate in these difficult case to misrepresent what the correct position be . the Home Secretary have already set out our position in this House and answer question on our approach to the grooming gang issue and the local inquiry . on court transcript , we be pilot artificial intelligence technology for accuracy so that hopefully in the future we can produce transcript . at the moment , the cost be prohibitive and the accuracy of the technology that be available be just not there . restricted patient be mentally disorder offender who be detain in hospital for treatment and be subject to special control by the Justice Secretary . what additional support be my right hon . friend ' s Department provide to help mental health trust to treat and rehabilitate these patient , so that they can be release from this secure environment in a timely manner ? my hon . Friend ask a serious and difficult question . the Mental Health Bill , introduce to Parliament last November , aim to stop restrict patient from languish in hospital unnecessarily , while prioritise public protection and manage any risk . the Department also work closely with clinician and care team to make decision on restricted patient as quickly as possible , in line with the publish guideline . release on temporary licence be deny when people say nasty stuff on Twitter but grant for much more serious crime . can the Secretary of State tell I when I can expect a satisfactory reply to an urgent ROTL case that I have already raise with the Prisons Minister and senior civil servant and that affect a grieve family in my constituency ? I will chase that up this afternoon and ensure that the hon . member get a response as quickly as possible . she will know that release on temporary licence be a mechanism that have governor supervision . if people follow the rule in prison , they become eligible for release on temporary licence . if they do not follow the rule , they be not eligible . can the Minister give an assessment of the potential merit of restrict triable either - way offence to summary trial , except for sentencing ? at a time when victim be wait far too long for their day in court , it be right that we look at all option . we have ask Sir Brian Leveson to consider all option in his review , include the reclassification of some offence to summary only . we should all be really concerned that the Government have quietly abandon their pledge to hold five local inquiry into groom gang . the victim still need justice , the public still need answer , and we still need a full inquiry . in the meantime , can the Minister tell we what specific action — not just reference to AI — her Department be take to ensure full transparency and public confidence in the case that do come to court ? sentencing remark be already available for some of those case . we have a robust judicial system that can handle difficult case . I have already deal with concern about transcript . the cost of full court transcript be very prohibitive , which be why we be look at technological solution — AI in particular . we have a number of pilot run . the key thing be that we make sure that the transcript be accurate so that the information put into the public domain reflect what be say and do in the courtroom . although the extra sit day to reduce court delay announce by the Secretary of State be welcome , do the Minister agree that the state of the court estate need some attention , as some court be out of action due to disrepair issue ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the other day I visit the Telford justice centre , where one of the courtroom be out of use because of mould and a leaky roof . the Government be make an additional capital investment of £ 20 million this year to maintain and restore our building so that they can be full and active for use . we be also invest in new court building ; from Blackpool to the City of London there will be new court , and they will serve the public well . the passing of Pope Francis be a profound loss . throughout his life , he be a passionate advocate for a justice system that put reconciliation at its heart . with the publication of the independent sentencing review expect imminently , will the Government take this opportunity to move our justice system towards one that contain , in the word of Pope Francis , a " horizon of hope " and reintegration , and will they commit to restorative justice be place at the heart of our justice system ? restorative justice clearly have a role to play , but the principle of our sentencing review , with which I hope member across the House can agree , be clear : there must always be a prison place available for people who be dangerous and need to be lock up , and we have to do more to help people to turn their back on a life of crime . compare with the same period in 2023 , 21 % more foreign national offender have be remove since July 2024 when this Government come into office . may I congratulate the Lord Chancellor on this achievement and ask what the new funding announce to speed the process up will do to increase the number be remove ? we have already get off to a good start in the deportation of foreign national offender from our prison . the new funding will enable more caseworker to speed up the removal of even more fno . I be very pleased that we have see a high number deport this year compare to the previous year , when the Conservatives be in office . a british mother in my constituency , have flee domestic abuse , face force return to Poland to stay with her young child under the Hague convention on the civil aspect of international child abduction . with no knowledge of the local language and no source of income there , she risk either dependence on her abuser or homelessness . that be because the convention ignore the issue of domestic abuse , allow it to be manipulate by abuser . would minister support my Bill on the Hague abduction convention and domestic abuse , which I will present soon and which would change the implementation of the Hague convention in UK domestic law to protect mother from the threat of return in this way ? I will happily meet the hon . member to discuss her Bill and tackle this issue head on . I thank my right hon . friend the Justice Secretary for the announcement she make today and the Government for listen to bereaved family and survive victim . it be only right that the inquiry be statutory to ensure that it have the power to compel witness and hold those responsible for failing to account . what assurance can she give that the inquiry will be conduct in a timely manner and that the lesson it uncover will be implement swiftly to help ensure that similar attack do not take place ? I thank my hon . friend for her comment , for her support and for assiduously represent the need of her constituent . as I say , the inquiry will be chair by her Honour Deborah Taylor , who be an experienced , senior retired judge . I have every confidence in she . she be already meet the family of the victim and the survivor , and she have undertake to ensure that the inquiry work at pace and make its finding as quickly as possible . may I press the Secretary of State on transcript ? when I ask recently for a transcript of a major trial , Manchester Crown court tell I that the cost would be £ 100 , 000 ; when press , that go down to £ 9 , 000 , but that be still way beyond the reach of most people . this be a travesty of justice . other country , include some american state , have free transcript available now . when will she sort this out ? the right hon . Member will know that the issue at the moment be that transcript have to be physically transcribe by hand by a human listening back to what be say and do in court . Speech - to - text transcription be pilot by the previous Government ; it be not accurate enough . I be sure he will agree that any transcript that be ultimately publish have to be accurate . that be why we be look at AI model . we hope to be able to find a model that give we the requisite level of accuracy and speed to be able to publish transcript , and to do so cheaply . child adopt from care or live under special guardianship be currently disproportionately at risk of enter the criminal justice system later in life if early trauma go untreated . give the recent change in the adoption and special guardianship support fund , what step be the Lord Chancellor take alongside Cabinet colleague to ensure the availability of more equitable access to such support ? we know how vulnerable many child with care experience be , and we be work closely with colleague in the Department for Education to help reduce their risk of enter the criminal justice system . the Government be commit £ 50 million to the adoption and special guardianship support fund this year . will the Minister take a special look at the problem of rogue builder who repeatedly target our constituent — often very vulnerable people ? they take thousand from they and wreck their home , yet the only redress be say to be trading standard . surely that amount to fraud and there ought to be a prosecution to follow . if any crime be commit , or even allege to have be commit , it should be report to the police in the first instance . victim have right under the victim code . we have recently do a campaign to advertise the code to create awareness of it , and we will soon consult on the code so that it reach all potential victim of crime more broadly . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I thank the Lord Chancellor for establish the inquiry into the Nottingham attack , but freedom of information request by the charity Hundred Families disclose last month that at least 392 mental health patient in England commit or be suspect of murder or manslaughter between 2018 and 2023 . the victim include Susan and Jeffrey Farrance , the elderly parent of my constituent . will the inquiry consider case like that of the Farrances so that we can learn all lesson necessary to prevent these tragic and avoidable crime ? I thank the Chair of the Justice Committee for raise an important issue for his own constituent that also have wide significance . I will publish the full term of reference and place they in the Libraries of both Houses very soon . regardless of whether the review go into the specific of every other type of case , I be sure that it will make finding on how such case , particularly involve people with mental health condition , be properly manage . I be sure that those finding will be of interest not just to our Department but to other , and will be implement by the Government in due course . we have a case in my constituency of a young offender , well below 16 , who be cause havoc — he have be arrest many time — and be not comply with a court order . the assumption be against incarceration because of his age . will the Minister explain what work the Government be do to crack down on prolific offending by young people well below 16 who be cause stress and fear in their local community ? I be very happy to answer query about that particular issue , if the hon . Lady wish to write to I . the Government have increase the youth offend team budget this year and continue to invest in the turnaround programme . as I say before , it have be show that young people who be engage in that programme have only a 5 % chance of reoffende . Birmingham : Waste Collection ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government if she will make a statement on the disruption to waste collection and the deployment of the military in Birmingham . before I start , may I recognise , on his passing , the significant contribution of Pope Francis ? also , as the Minister for Local Government in England , I wish everyone a happy St George ' s day for tomorrow . member across the House will be aware of the continue disruption cause by industrial action in Birmingham . the Government have repeatedly call for Unite to call off the strike and accept the fair deal that be on the table . the commissioner and the council be undertake the necessary reform in the context of a challenging financial situation , with the legacy of equal pay , when woman worker be systematically pay less than their male counterpart in similar role . though the council must chart that course itself , our action speak to our determination to ensure the welfare of the citizen of Birmingham . we have be provide intensive support to the council in its effort to address the backlog of waste that have be build up on the city ' s street , and significant progress have be make in the last fortnight through a concerted effort and with the assistance of other council , private operator and the endeavour of many hundred of determined worker , who have work extremely long hour . the result be that 26 , 000 tonne of excess waste have be remove and level be now approach normal . More than 100 bin truck be out every day and regular bin collection have resume . the council continue to monitor the situation closely to ensure that waste do not build up again . this be a Government who stand up for work people . the industrial action be in no one ' s interest because the deal on the table be a good deal . the council have work hard to offer route to maintain pay through transfer worker to comparable role and , in some case , to upskill those worker in scope . there may of course be detail to iron out , but that be why talk be so important . as we have repeatedly make clear , Unite should suspend the strike , accept the deal and bring the dispute to an end . the Government will continue to be on the side of the people of Birmingham and to support the council in create the sustainable , fair and reliable waste service that its resident deserve . it be astounding that the Secretary of State , have have to resort to call in the Army to cover her blush for her failure to resolve the situation , be not intend to make an oral statement to the House and have to be drag before it by mean of this urgent question . she be fail — fail to stand up to the union , fail to protect the resident of the UK ' s second city and fail to protect the reputation of our nation — and now resort to be bail out by our brave armed force , which I note the Minister do not even mention . it be a national embarrassment . I realise that the Minister and the Secretary of State be not bear until 1980 , but many in this House and in the wide country remember very well the 1970 and the winter of discontent . it be clear that with this government we risk go back to those day . to prevent that from happen , I offer the Minister and the Secretary of State our support , if the Minister will clarify and confirm the following . what be the project cost to the taxpayer of the military ' s involvement ? will he rule out the humiliation of service personnel ever have to collect refuse ? will he commit to use provision in the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 to ensure that resident receive a basic level of service , and to reinstate legislation that would allow the council to commission agency worker to clean up the city until the strike be resolve ? finally , will he abandon provision in the Employment Rights Bill that give union access to every single workplace in this country , that low the threshold for union recognition , and that make it much easy for union to call strike ? do that now , and the Minister will have our support . however , if he and the Secretary of State duck the tough decision to please her union paymaster , the tail may once again wag the dog in this country , which could take it back to the 1970 . if that be a dog , it be more like a Bichon Fris é attack on the Government I ' m afraid — it really do not land . what do people in Birmingham want ? in the context of an unacceptable situation , where rubbish be accumulate , the people of Birmingham want it to be resolve . what they have in this Government be a Government who do not pray in aid party politic or council ' row in the way the previous Government do . what we do be work together in partnership for the end that be important — [ interruption . ] conservative member have be carp from the sideline — they have be do this for week now — and they have offer every criticism but not a single solution . we would be forgive for believe that they have not be in power for 14 year , when Birmingham be send to the wall . we be , of course , appreciative of our colleague in the MOD for the support that they have offer , and the three logistic adviser have make a difference . however , as they themselves have say , Birmingham be more than capable of make sure that the round be collect , and the truck be on the road as of this week . that mutual support be important . I need to pull up the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) on a comment that he make early . he speak about the " humiliation " of collect waste from the street , and the " humiliation " of decent working - class people go out to provide a public service to million of people across England . it be not a humiliation ; it be a public service , and one that be critical to our nation ' s interest . to say that the job be a humiliation — I would say that working - class people , the bin collector across this country , take pride in their work , and they deserve more respect from the bloody opposition . I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . I associate myself with the Minister ' s remark on the passing of Pope Francis . may his soul rest in perfect peace . it be important for we to remember the innocent resident who be catch up in this dispute , and the fact that they have be suffer for many week without that refuse be collect . I think about the many family who have to celebrate Eid while see all that rubbish continue to pile up . in just over four week there will be another half term , and again many family will be at home . it be important that the Government continue to work closely with Birmingham and all party to make sure that this be resolve . the Minister outline some of the concern around the funding pressure that council of all political party have face over the past few year . he will know that he and the Government have hand out exceptional financial support for a number of council , and a number of council continue to face challenge with their finance . can he assure the House that in discussion with Birmingham council and other , we will continue to support hard - work local government officer , ensure that their finance be again fit and proper , so that we do not face situation such as the one we see in Birmingham ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for that question , which in a way go to the heart of the fragile situation that we inherit as a Government . after 14 year , Birmingham , and in fact many council of all political stripe , have be send to the wall by the previous Government . the number of bankruptcy notice that be issue be testament to that . we have be able to stabilise the sector through the recovery grant — the first time ever that that grant be issue , and Birmingham be the large beneficiary . we have give that city the support it need , but we want to ensure that the progress we have see over the past couple of week be maintain . I completely appreciate that there be unacceptable scene where waste have build up on people ' s street . that be not okay in normal time , and it be certainly not okay in half term , when child be play in their local park and on their street . that be why we move quickly to ensure that that waste be remove . the fact that 26 , 000 tonne have be remove show the dedication of those frontline worker . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it be unacceptable that this dispute have drag on into a ninth week . even more disgraceful , the people of Birmingham be now force to clean up their own street . I thank those who give up their Easter holiday to pick up rubbish for their neighbour but , let we be honest , they should never have have to do it . this go way beyond Birmingham . it start with an equal pay claim that bankrupt the council , and with widespread local government reorganisation ahead of we all , what will stop it from happen again ? as council merge , staff will sit side by side do the same job but on completely different pay from each other . that be unjust , unsustainable and a tick timebomb . six year after the reorganisation of Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council , which I lead , pay harmonisation be still go on . we could not afford to meet everyone ' s expectation , and neither can most council , which teeter on the edge . what be the Minister do to stop this from spiral elsewhere and to protect resident from eye - water tax hike or devastating service cut ? I want to be careful not to stray too far from Birmingham , which be not affect by local government reorganisation . however , it be completely usual , when look at the transfer of the workforce , for negotiation to take place with worker and trade union to harmonise term and condition and pay . that will take place in the usual way . we need to be careful not to set hare run unnecessarily . the issue in Birmingham — the foundational issue , in a way — be equal pay . for far too long , woman worker be pay far less than their male counterpart for comparable role — that go on for decade . the council have to resolve that , as other council do many year early . woman can not continue to be pay less than their male counterpart . in the end , this be about harmonisation do in the right way . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for their support in address the public health concern in Birmingham . as the Minister say , 26 , 000 tonne of waste have now be clear , and weekly collection will resume . I put on record my thank to everyone involve in the clean - up , include many volunteer — they be the good of Birmingham . do the Minister agree that it be right that the council resolve equal pay issue , with over 7 , 000 woman now due compensation ? that be precisely what the deal on offer do , while ensure that no worker have to lose pay . that be precisely the issue with the wrco — waste recycling and collection officer — role that start the strike action to begin with . an enhanced payment be make for that role that do not stand , when it go through job evaluation , compare with woman who be do similar role elsewhere in the council . that can not stand . there must be a red line whereby no agreement can be reach if it compromise the council position on equal pay and build up liability for the future . I absolutely pay tribute to the community group and frontline worker who have make sure that the response to the clean - up have be one of co - operation . will the Minister make a point of thank the well - run and cost - effective conservative council that have either help or offer to help clear up this terrible mess ? will he bear in mind that it be not just the bin strike that my poor , long - suffer constituent in the royal town of Sutton Coldfield have have to endure , but the pende closure of our library and the massive hike in council tax ? do he understand why so many of we want to see a proper judge - lead inquiry into how bankrupt Birmingham city council have get Britain ' s second city into this mess ? will he also bear in mind that this be a dispute between two wing of the Labour party ? whatever I may think of the council that he lead , it be quite wrong that my constituent , the leader of the council , should have have a photograph of his house put on social medium by Unite . will the Minister condemn that action by Unite ? let I be clear : over the past few week , photograph have be take of the house of union official , and the same trade union have use photograph of the home of the council leader and cabinet member . neither of those thing be okay . this be already a fraught dispute . it require the good faith of all party , and negotiation through be in the same room and talk through the issue in the interest of the worker and the people of the city of Birmingham . our hope , and our expectation , be that , although what have happen have happen , a line be draw and we can move forward in good faith . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the crisis over bin collection in Birmingham have drag on for far too long , and my constituent have suffer significantly as a result . while I understand the financial pressure on the council , clearly it be unreasonable to expect any worker to accept a pay cut . will the Minister commit to take all step possible to encourage good faith negotiation between both party , so that a fair deal can be reach and this vital service can be restore without any further disruption ? I do not think there be a single example — although I be prepared to be correct — where equal pay have not have winner and loser on the edge . that be an element of equal pay that we have to accept . the envelope be not limited , so the book have to balance . on the issue of how the WRCO role be be change and whether worker need to lose pay , the council be offer a sideways move in the street scene division on the same grade 3 , which will mean no loss of income . it be offer worker a move to an equivalent grade 3 role even if training be require , and it will provide that training . it be also offer LGV driver training , so that loader can upgrade to be a driver , which carry a high payment than their current role . I recall ask the Minister on a previous occasion about get support from military personnel , and he say that I have go " from zero to 100 " very quickly . the difficulty with this Government be that they have be very slow to react . I be out last Thursday pick up bin bag with youth worker from a local organisation who have work 12 - hour shift and be then spend their evening clean up the street . the Minister have fail to raise the fact that thousand of tonne of recyclable waste have not be collect , encourage further fly - tipping . when will this Government intervene and resolve the issue ? bin worker work hard . up to 200 of they will lose up to £ 8 , 000 , and that need to be resolve . I share the hon . member ' s appreciation of community volunteer who be clean up the street , just as I welcome the hard work of hundred of frontline council worker who have step in . their effort have mean that 26 , 000 tonne of accumulate waste have now be clear . we can agree on that , at least . on the question of when it be appropriate for the Government to offer support , it be when a major incident be declare . as the hon . Member will know , I have be in Birmingham every week since then . there have be daily update call with the council , and we have be provide essential support to the council to clear up the city . I thank the Minister for his effort to keep Birmingham MPs inform on a cross - party basis during this dispute . I would also like to associate myself with the condemnation of the publication of photograph of the house of some of the party to the dispute . my resident in Birmingham Northfield want to see a service that be not the same as before the strike ; it must be well , and I know the Minister share that ambition . we have hear today about the 1970 . it be not so long ago that a Conservative Secretary of State stand at the Dispatch Box and say that he be delighted to announce 12 % cut to Birmingham ' s budget — the sharp of any unitary authority . do the Minister agree that the one word miss from the shadow Secretary of State ' s question be " sorry " ? we have be here repeatedly for question , statement and even urgent question in the House , and on not a single occasion have the shadow Secretary of State or shadow Ministers accept their role , after 14 year of government , in drive council of all colour to the wall . we need to bear in mind that commissioner be bring in under the previous Government , and Birmingham have to declare bankruptcy under the previous Government . the only difference now be that it have a Government on side willing to meet it financially — that be why the recovery grant be so important — but also in spirit and through our action , which be why we be work in partnership to clean up the street and get Birmingham clean . which legacy be the Minister most proud of : rubbish and rat in Birmingham , or labour ' s breach of its promise to the electorate to freeze council tax ? I be sure that sound a well question when it be be draft this morning . I do not think anyone take pride in the strike action and the waste that accumulate on the street . this be a very serious issue . it be unacceptable that a major incident have to be declare and that public health concern be so prevalent . that be why we take quick action . it be why the street have be clean to the tune of 26 , 000 tonne , and it be why there be more daily collection take place now in term of tonnage than there be in routine time — to make sure they catch up and do not slip back — but we recognise that , in the end , the only solution be to deal with the underlie strike action that be cause the disruption . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be a member of Unite , and I be very proud of that ; I think four generation of my family have be member . not to rise to the provocation of Conservative Members , but there be a difference between have three military adviser and have troop on the street . the latter would be see as an act of provocation and a worsening of the situation . may I suggest that the Minister or the Secretary of State convene the meeting between the council and the union to secure progress in the negotiation ? there have be almost daily communication with the council , and the trade union have make representation , too , but we need to be clear about appropriate role and responsibility , and about the line of accountability . the council , not the Government , be the employer of the workforce in Birmingham , and it be for the employer and the employee to reach an agreement that both can accept . we urge both party to negotiate in good faith . we believe that the deal on the table be a good deal . the right hon . Gentleman be correct to say that worker have the right to make their representation , but the council have to take into account all its workforce , include over 7 , 000 woman , who historically be pay far less than their male counterpart for equivalent role . that be the foundational issue at the heart of the dispute . despite assurance from the Dispatch Box before the Easter recess , we continue to see pile of rubbish on the street in Birmingham . the cost be mount , and the rat — the squeaky blinder — continue to roam the street of Britain ' s second city freely , so I ask the Minister again : what be his Government and labour - run Birmingham city council do to bring an end to the strike ? enough be enough — resident want an end to the situation . work be still take place . I should address the question about rodent , because that be a serious issue . nobody want to see rat in the street , particularly around the accumulate waste . we welcome the council ' s decision to suspend the charge for call out p control , so that household that report rodent be not financially disadvantaged . on the Government ' s response to the situation , from day one we say that the accumulate waste be unacceptable and a public health hazard . the Government step in to support the council , to ensure that we could get more truck out of the depot , increase the amount of waste collect and regularise the number of routine collection . I be pleased that progress have be make , but what will ultimately resolve the dispute be the trade union and the council reach an agreement that bring the strike action to an end . on the promotion of Leeds United , I call Richard Burgon . I take that as congratulation from the Speaker of the House of Commons on the promotion of Leeds United , so thank you very much , Mr Speaker . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] that seem to be the most popular thing I have say in the House for some time . I be proud to be a Unite member and a trade union member . I remember the 2009 Leeds bin strike , when the Conservative and Lib Dem - run council try to cut the bin worker ' pay by up to £ 6 , 000 . a three - month strike follow that be ultimately successful . have listen to the point make by member from across the Chamber , I would say that it be always wrong to castigate trade union as be the enemy within . they be an important part of our civil democracy . it be not union official who call this strike — or any strike — but trade union member , so here Unite the Union mean the bin worker . it be really important that we do not allow trade union and trade unionism to be demonise in this dispute , or any other . we can certainly agree that people have the right to strike , but people also have the right to go to work . we see a restriction of the number of bin truck that could leave the depot , which have a significant impact on the amount of waste that could be collect . the direct result be the accumulation of ten of thousand of tonne of waste on the street . in the end , we really want Unite , as the negotiate body for the workforce it represent , and Birmingham city council , as the employer , to get around the table on the deal that have be table , to iron out the difference , if there be any , and to reach an agreement . if that will take long , we strongly encourage Unite to suspend strike action during the negotiation . Birmingham city council be the large local authority in the UK by population . sadly , for many year it have struggle with severe problem that impact its resident . the Government have engage in local government reorganisation across much of the country . large part of the area cover by Birmingham city council may be well administer by body elsewhere , outside the boundary of the city . will the Minister look at whether it be time to review the boundary of Birmingham city council ? the council be so large that it can not function properly for its resident . I do not think that anyone could criticise my work ethic , but reorganise a third of England and the 20 million resident affect would be quite a reorganisation to deliver . as thing stand , there be no intention of reorganise Birmingham , but there be absolutely an intention of resolve the underlie trade union dispute , get people back to work , and reach an agreement that be acceptable . may I point out that the strike start under this Labour Government , and under a Labour council — and despite all the Minister ' s hand - wringing and anguish , the strike continue under a Labour Government , and under a Labour council ? it be futile for the Government to pretend it be all somebody else ' s fault , least of all the fault of the previous Government . will the Minister avoid misrepresent what my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) say ? he make the perfectly reasonable suggestion that the Minister should reinstate the legislation that would allow agency worker to be bring in to pick up rubbish off the street of Birmingham . why will the Minister not do that ? because he be pussyfoot around and kowtow to his labour paymaster , the trade union . that certainly get the award for the silly question yet . there be no kowtowing or bow . we play this with an absolutely straight bat in the interest of the people of Birmingham , as they would expect . on agency worker , our judgment be that they be not require , because the mutual aid from neighbouring council and housing association , and the redeployment of frontline staff from elsewhere in the council , have deal with the waste that accumulate . we have see 26 , 000 tonne of waste clear . as I say , now that truck be leave the depot as usual in most case , more tonne per day be be collect than during regular time , so the council be on top of this . there be no need to bring in additional agency staff in the way that the hon . Gentleman say . give that the Minister no doubt sincerely believe that the offer on the table be a good one , why do he think the union be not accept it ? it be clear from the negotiation that there be a number of move part . I should declare that we be not replicate those negotiation in this Chamber ; they should be between the employer , the employee and the trade union , and we should not try to circumvent that here . our belief be that the agreement strike the right balance between give support to the worker affect — those in the wrco role — and not undermine the equal pay work that have be do . for far too long , we have see woman be underpaid for the work that they do . the Minister fail to answer the question from my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) on whether troop should be use to clear up the mess . will he do so now ? the Defence Secretary , who be sit next to the Minister , will know very well that a train soldier ' s pay start at around £ 25 , 000 . if troop be use , will they receive arduous duty payment under the arrangement for military aid to civil authority ? I think I have cover this at least a couple of time . as I say , we be grateful to our colleague in the Ministry of Defence for the logistical support they have provide . we have three member of staff on logistical planning ; they have have a significant impact , and we and the council be grateful for that . there be no requirement for troop to be deploy on the street to collect waste , because the council be get on top of it . we do not take that for grant , and we do not want any disruption to that , but to be clear , the military be not need on the street of Birmingham . the council have the situation in hand , and worker be do that work today . I have a genuine question for the Minister . I be a little bit confused about what these three superman and woman from the MOD or the military have do . one of the principle of mutual aid and military aid to a civil authority be that the people be help must not have the capacity themselves , and it must be unreasonable to expect they to grow that capacity in a timely manner . what have those people do that Birmingham city council could not do itself ? I be usually a bit suspicious when somebody start their question with " this be a genuine question " , but that be actually a proper question . member could learn from it . [ interruption . ] calm down . on the add value that the MOD be able to provide , every council have rota for get bin collect from a give place . Birmingham have mutual aid offer from other council , and it have to work out how good to use quite different offer of support — how to deploy truck and available worker across the city , work in a different way . the logistical worker from the MOD support the creation of new collection round to clear the accumulate waste . could the Minister — or the Pied Piper , as he be quickly become know — clear up the record , please ? in his opening statement , he say that the military offer its support to clear up this mess . do it offer , or be it order by his Department to provide support , because his government can not stand up to the union ? I have already cover the value that the MOD have provide , and of course , we work in partnership . the offer of support be make to the council , which receive that offer gratefully . however , the MOD , whose logistical planner have be on the ground in Birmingham , have be clear that the council be at a point at which it do not need its support , because it have the collection round in place . I hope the hon . Gentleman welcome that . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . just eight week ago , during a Select Committee evidence session , the Minister tell I that " there be a lot of good work take place in Birmingham " . the Government want to create super - council , cover half a million people and reach over vast area to manage bin collection and other vital service , against the wish of my constituent . we have see the result in Birmingham . do the Minister believe that ton of rubbish on the street be the model that the rest of the country should follow ? in a way , that question show a misunderstanding of why Birmingham be in the situation it be in . it make no more sense to say that Birmingham ' s problem be because of its size and scale than it would to say , " look at the debt liability build up by some of the small council in the country , which have borrow many hundred or thousand of time their revenue . " in a way , these problem be down to long - term issue . some of this situation be due to the foundational funding that Birmingham city council have be give , but Birmingham be get its house in order . it be not an easy process , and that council would say itself that it have a way to go . when it come to resolve historical equal pay liability , and issue with the Oracle it system , the council face a significant financial liability . it be make progress on modernise its workforce and on the future operating model , but it have some way to go . that allow we to come to Jim Shannon . I thank the Minister for his answer to some very difficult question . he will understand , of course , the absolute necessity of military intervention in civil life in Northern Ireland over a great many year . while it be never an easy option , do the Minister agree that if it be the only option to ensure that disease do not spread through the city — if a pay deal can not be reach — action have to be take , before the ill and the vulnerable pay the price of this stand - off ? as thing stand , a normal service have return to most street at most time . the accumulate waste that be build up — which be not acceptable at all — have be remove . some 26 , 000 tonne have be remove ; in most place at most time , the collection of bin be take place as normal , and over 100 truck a day be leave the depot as usual . we hope that we do not return to the scene that the hon . Gentleman have describe , for the reason that he express . that be not acceptable from a public health point of view , and have consequence . Ukraine Update today , HMS Prince of Wales set sail from Portsmouth . I trust that the whole House will join I in wish the entire carrier strike group a safe and successful global deployment . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] Mr Speaker , I wish to make a statement on the ongoing war in Ukraine . today , Parliament return from our Easter break , and during the past two week Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine have continue , with drone strike , missile attack and fierce fighting on the frontline . on Palm Sunday , man , woman and child in Sumy on their way to church be hit by Putin ' s deadly attack on ukrainian civilian so far this year , kill 35 people , include young child , and injure over 100 more . we be unite in condemnation of this brutal attack and of Putin ' s illegal action . at this critical moment for Ukraine and for european security , we have step up the Government ' s effort in support of Ukraine , and we will step up far to increase military support for the fight today and to secure peace for tomorrow . we can not jeopardise the peace by forget about the war , so 10 day ago in Brussels , the UK convene and I co - chair the 27th meeting of the Ukraine defence contact group , alongside my good friend the german Defence Minister Boris Pistorius . some 51 nation and partner from Europe , the Indo - Pacific and South America come together at NATO headquarters with ukrainian President Zelensky , US Defence Secretary Hegseth and NATO Secretary - General Mark Rutte . we come together to step up support for Ukraine in the fight . together we pledge a record € 21 billion of military support to put Ukraine in the strong possible position and to increase pressure on Putin to negotiate . this year , the UK be provide £ 4 . 5 billion in military support to Ukraine — more than ever before . in Brussels , I announce that £ 200 million of that support will be surge to the frontline , with supply start to reach Ukraine ' s fighter within this month , include radar system , anti - tank mine and hundred of thousand of drone . I also announce £ 160 million to help repair and maintain essential battlefield vehicle and equipment . this support will strengthen ukrainian troop in the close fight , and it will also strengthen our industrial link with Ukraine and boost UK business . President Trump talk about peace through strength , and it be the commitment make through the Ukraine defence contact group that provide the strength to secure that peace . despite President Putin ' s promise of a 30 - hour pause in fighting , I can confirm that Defence Intelligence have find " no indication that a ceasefire on the frontline be observe over the Easter period " . some 10 , 000 missile and drone have be fire into Ukraine this year alone , include from the Black sea . while Putin have say he declare an Easter truce , he break it . while Putin say he want peace , he have reject a full ceasefire . while Putin say he want to put an end to the fighting , he continue to play for time in the negotiation . the russian military continue to pressure Ukraine on a number of front . I can confirm that russian military progress be slow . Putin gain less territory in March than he do in February , and less territory in February than he do in January . ukrainian town that Russia have be target since before Christmas have still not be capture . ukrainian troop have still not be eject from russian territory in Kursk . whatever ground Putin be take come at a huge human cost . More than 940 , 000 Russians be likely to have be kill or injure in the war so far , include 150 , 000 kill or injure this year alone . last month the average daily casualty rate on the russian side be 1 , 300 , almost double the rate this time last year . at home , Putin face crippling interest rate of 21 % , while inflation be run at over 10 % and the russian Government be spend nearly 40 % of their entire budget on his military campaign . it be , however , likely that in the day ahead Russia will keep up attack on the Sumy oblast to help it to reclaim nearby contest area of Kursk . in the central Donetsk oblast , Russia be target urban stronghold such as Toretsk , Povrosk and Chasiv Yar , and in Kharkiv , Russia continue to make assault towards the rail and logistic hub of Kupiansk . we expect more ground to be take and more russian missile to be fire into Ukraine , which be why we must remain united for Ukraine — across the House , across the country , and across those nation stand alongside Ukraine . we must step up support for Ukraine and pressure on Putin , to force he to recognise that now be the time for peace and that continue the war will prove to be much bad for Russia in the long run . we believe that peace be possible , and we must be ready for when that peace come , so as well as provide vital military aid , the UK Government continue the push for peace . the Foreign Secretary join ceasefire discussion with the United States , France , Germany and Ukraine in Paris last week , and in Brussels 10 day ago , along with my good friend the French Defence Minister , S é bastien Lecornu , I convene and co - chair the first Defence Ministers ' meeting of the coalition of the willing , with 30 country come together to build on the hard work of more than 200 military planner from Europe and beyond . that operational planning must remain classified , but I can assure the House that the plan be real , substantial and well develop . our reassurance force will have clear objective for Ukraine : first , to secure safe sky ; secondly , to secure safe sea ; thirdly , to support peace on the land ; and fourthly , to help the ukrainian armed force become their own strong possible deterrent against future russian attack . in the day ahead this detailed planning will continue , domain by domain , and nation will continue to provide firm commitment for the coalition . tomorrow I will meet ukrainian Defence Minister Umerov and other ally as the Government bring together the United States , the United Kingdom , and European Ministers and national defence security adviser to discuss the next step . that will include discuss what a ceasefire might look like , and how to secure peace in the long term . this war be never just about the fate of one nation . it be about not allow national border to be redrawn by force , and about prevent aggressor across the world from be embolden to threaten the security of all nation . that be why the defence of the UK start in Ukraine . it be why UK leadership be play a unique role , to put Ukraine in the strong position on the battlefield and in negotiation , and to prepare the building block for a last peace that will safeguard Ukraine ' s sovereignty and deter Putin from future aggression . I hope that the House will join I in send a signal to President Putin , and in say to Ukraine , " we will stand with you in the fight and we will stand with you in the peace , whenever that may come . " may I associate the Opposition with the Secretary of State ' s wish a good and successful mission to the crew of HMS Prince of Wales as it set sail on its late trip ? I be grateful to the Secretary of State , both for advance sight of his statement and for the support that be provide by his Department for my recent visit to Ukraine ; we provide the same support when we be in government . it be a privilege to pay tribute to the victim of this terrible war at the Wall of Memory in Kyiv , but it be also a powerful reminder of the stark contrast between the reality on the ground of continue casualty and the lie and propaganda from the Kremlin in respect of any so - call ceasefire . it must be clear that to Putin a ceasefire be simply part of a game — one that he have no intention of pausing — and we must continue to stand with all our ally in be 100 % clear about who the aggressor be in this war . those who pay the price for Putin ' s game be innocent civilian , such as those kill in the terrible strike on Sumy on Palm Sunday . be the Secretary of State able to shed any light on report that russian force use a cluster munition as part of the attack on civilian , and if so , do this not illustrate the extraordinary contrast between claim of a ceasefire and the reality of the Russians ' continue indiscriminate bombing ? in the face of such aggression , we remain proud of the extraordinary role that the United Kingdom have play in back Ukraine ' s struggle under successive government , and I welcome the continue support announce by the Ukraine defence contact group . I turn to the Secretary of State ' s late update on the coalition of the willing . although we will always stand with the Government in support Ukraine , he know that it would be a major shift to go from the indirect provision of munition to boot on the ground . therefore , as the Opposition , we be duty bind to probe what remain several unanswered but very significant practical question that any such deployment would raise . a month ago , on 22 March , I write to the Secretary of State with a series of question on the coalition of the willing , but I have yet to receive a reply . give the importance of those question , I will ask they now . first , what progress have he make on secure a US military backstop ? secondly , what would be the expect rule of engagement ? thirdly , how many nation have definitively commit to send troop ? fourthly , will he consider derogate from the european convention on human right for any deployment , give our military ' s previous experience of vexatious lawsuit arise from overseas operation ? of course , an extraordinary aspect of the coalition of the willing be that we be mean to be lead with France , while at the same time — behind our back — it be seek to undermine our fishing right in our sovereign water over access to a european defence fund that will definitively include non - EU nation . when I point that out at oral question last month , the Secretary of State ask I to " drop " the " Brexit rhetoric " , yet over the Easter recess it be he who blast the EU ' s foreign affair chief Kaja Kallas when she suggest that his plan for troop in Ukraine be unclear . what be clear ? almost alone , we stand by Ukraine from the very beginning of the war , help it to avoid an early capitulation that would have be a disaster for the whole of Europe . we also offer our nuclear deterrent to european NATO 24 / 7 — not to get well fishing right , but to defend the freedom of european nation . a country that do all that should not be exclude from a defence fund that will include non - EU state , and should not face punitive measure against its fishing fleet , when we be mean to be do everything possible to strengthen european defence solidarity . the Secretary of State need to understand that this be not about Brexit , Britain or France ; it be about the security of the whole of Europe . do he understand that , and can he confirm categorically that the Government will not offer any concession on fishing right in order to secure an EU defence pact ? finally , I turn to procurement for our own armed force . both in Kyiv and with cross - party colleague in Parliament this morning , I have the pleasure of meet ukrainian manufacturer of drone that have be highly effective on the frontline . will the Secretary of State support such company to partner with british company and to set up operation in the UK , both to boost Ukraine and to give our military rapid access to prove capability ? give how much of this rest on the strategic defence review , will it be publish this month ? I be glad the hon . Gentleman have be to Ukraine recently , and I be glad we be able to facilitate that visit . I be proud of the number of member of this House who be regularly go to Ukraine . it have a big impact on the ukrainian population , who do not necessarily hear our debate in the UK . when they see british parliamentarian of all party and you , Mr Speaker — as the Speaker of this House — in Ukraine , they know that this country stand unite and stand with they . the hon . Gentleman be completely right to contrast Putin ' s claim of a ceasefire with the reality of continue brutal attack , include on the civilian population of Ukraine . he ask about a potential negotiate peace in which we , alongside 30 other nation in the coalition of the willing , consider how good we can help secure a last peace , which be what President Trump have promise to deliver . he will have hear the Prime Minister say that we be fully commit to put british troop on the ground if necessary , and we would do that because the security of the UK start in Ukraine . he ask about the US , and both I and the Prime Minister have be clear in our discussion with the US that , post a negotiate ceasefire and peace , Ukraine will need long - term security assurance and that there be a role for the US to play in those . on the echr , as the hon . Gentleman know well than anyone , it be long - stand practice of successive government that UK deployment at home and abroad will always comply with international law . that be what set we apart from nation such as Putin ' s Russia . I will not be draw into what any of the operational deployment may look like , because the only person who benefit from that be President Putin . the hon . Gentleman raise two other thing with I . on the EU High Representative , Kaja Kallas , and the question of a European Union - UK defence agreement and access to the EU programme that it be step up and put in place , he quite rightly say that we have a part to play and a contribution to make . Kaja Kallas herself have say : " I think the UK be a very important defence and security partner . it ' s the most logical defence and security partner that we have , and it ' s a beneficial relationship for both side . " that be why she and we be committed to negotiate a defence and security agreement . finally , the hon . Gentleman be right to point to the significance of drone in the current battle . it be now the fact that more casualty on both side be cause by drone than by artillery . on the UK - Ukrainian link , we have help manufacture , in this country and in Ukraine , and supply over 14 , 000 drone since the last election in July . this be central to the ukrainian defence strategy , and it be central to the future of our own force — and the SDR ? the SDR , as we have say many time , be close to completion . it be be finalise , and it will be publish in the spring . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . although it be sadden to hear about the continue colossal death and destruction in Ukraine , I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . indeed , I welcome his leadership of the Ukraine defence contact group , which by pledge a record € 21 billion , have demonstrate that the 51 ally be firmly committed to help our ukrainian friend in their hour of need . he mention the many short ceasefire that be agree and then break , and the question we need to ask ourselves be : when President Putin say he want a ceasefire , be that actually the case ? however , if a much - need ceasefire be agree , how confident be the Secretary of State of convene and then keep the coalition of the willing together ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question , and for the job he do in chair the Defence Committee . one of the trickiest task in the work undertake by our military planner be that it be not clear in what circumstance any force may be require to be deploy , and it be not clear that the detail of the negotiate peace deal we all want to see will be in place . he ask I a straight question , and when the deal be do , the peace be negotiate and the ceasefire be in place , I believe it will actually be easy , not hard , to hold together and enlarge the number of nation willing to be a part of the coalition of the willing . in the meeting I chair at NATO headquarters 10 day ago — the first ever meeting of the Defence Ministers of the coalition of the willing — the 30 nation around the table , all participate in the detailed operational military planning that be continue , be not just from Europe but beyond . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Defence Secretary for advance sight of his statement . the Liberal Democrats welcome the £ 200 million of support to the frontline in Ukraine . over Easter , Putin prove that he have no interest in secure peace . within hour of declare a suppose Easter truce , Putin unleash a fresh wave of drone and artillery attack across many part of the frontline . meanwhile , President Trump have show once again his utter indifference towards the ukrainian people ' s struggle . after boast that he would end the war within 24 hour of take office , he now threaten to withdraw US support for mediating talk altogether . it be no wonder his effort have fail , give his warped approach of apply pressure to Kyiv while offer the hand of friendship to the Kremlin . we can not rely on President Trump if we want to secure a just peace in Ukraine , one that respect Ukraine ' s right to self - determination and prove that aggression towards neighbour do not pay . that be why the UK need to go far and fast , together with our partner in Europe and the Commonwealth , to support Ukraine and increase the pressure on Putin . will the Defence Secretary update the House on what step have be take to seize the £ 25 billion - worth of frozen russian asset across the UK and deploy they to Ukraine ? will he also update the House on whether the Government plan to expand the UK ' s designation of vessel that be part of Russia ' s shadow fleet and subject to sanction , help to far reduce Putin ' s ability to fund his war through export oil revenue ? we welcome the Government ' s work to convene discussion on create a reassurance force for Ukraine . the credibility of the UK ' s commitment to such a force would be significantly enhance by reverse the staggeringly irresponsible 10 , 000 troop cut to our Army which the Conservatives undertake while in government . will the Defence Secretary commit to reverse those cut today ? I welcome the hon . Lady ' s welcome for the surge in UK support to ukrainian troop on the frontline . it be important to support they at this point in their close fight . that be what we be determined to do , as well as prepare for the long term peace that we hope will be secure . on the peace negotiation , I would just say to she that it be President Trump who have create this opportunity for negotiation and for peace , and it really be too soon to call failure on those negotiation . everything about the determination of some significant US figure and the work they be do , the discussion we will help support and play a part of in London tomorrow , demonstrate that there be a broad coalition of nation that want to see a peace in Ukraine , want to see Putin negotiate seriously , and be willing to take the step to help bring that about . on the question of the pressure on Putin , whether we can make any further use of the seized russian state asset be something we be look closely at . it be not just a question or a judgment for the UK . it will be much more powerful if that be do with other ally , particularly through the G7 . if we make any progress on that front , that be the way we will do it . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I have just come back from Ukraine — I go with other member of the Foreign Affairs Committee — and can certainly confirm what we all know , which be that there be huge gratitude and affection for the United Kingdom in Ukraine . whatever be happen on the western front , it be a war that affect the whole of the country . even when we be in the capital , there be three air raid in one day . there be a desire by Ukrainians to reciprocate and support we as well they can . by necessity , they have become expert in the use of drone and want to share with we their knowledge and skill on training and development and the production of this new weapon system . will the Government be take up that opportunity and work with the Ukrainians on this new weapon system ? I thank my right hon . friend for the job that she be do chair the FAC , and for her commitment to Ukraine and her recent visit . I be proud of the UK ' s leadership on Ukraine . I be proud of the way it be lead by the previous Government , support by we in opposition . I be proud that the official opposition now provide the necessary support for this Government to step up still far the support we can offer . on drone , it be not just a question , as my right hon . friend ask , of whether we will do it . we have be do it , and for some time . I say early in response to the shadow Defence Secretary , since the election in July alone , we have gift more than 14 , 000 drone to Ukraine . in some case , those be drone we have make , design and develop here , and in some case we have do that jointly with ukrainian company . sometimes , we be ensure that they can design , develop and manufacture for themselves in Ukraine , because that be the most effective way for Ukraine to reinforce its own armed force and industry , and it be the quick way of get into the hand of frontline troop the necessary equipment and assistance to fight off Putin ' s invasion . I call the Father of the House . what worry I be that President Putin have say he will not accept NATO troop on the ground . in the absence of NATO troop on the ground , could we not be back to a 1939 Sudetenland situation where the aggressor take a slug of territory and then move in several month later ? will the Secretary of State confirm that he be absolutely convinced — perhaps he can also convince President Trump — that in the absence of NATO troop on the ground , this be a worthless peace ? no one be talk about NATO troop , Madam Deputy Speaker . the coalition of the willing be a coalition of nation — many but not all of which be NATO member — willing to come together to discuss the military option and plan in close liaison with NATO because there be potential implication for NATO . President Trump be lead the negotiation . President Putin be not yet negotiate seriously , and be therefore not in a position to lay down term like those he mention . secure the ultimate objective that President Trump , President Zelensky and we all want to see — not just peace , but a lasting , durable peace — will require reassurance and security support for Ukraine while it develop the strength of its own deterrent to do that for itself in the long term . I congratulate my right hon . friend on the work he have do to secure extra funding for defence and for Ukraine . it be clear that Putin do not want peace and that all he be interested in do be gain ukrainian territory . we have to send a clear message to he that neither we nor our ally be take a step backwards . the only way we can get a just settlement for Ukraine be for Ukraine to be as militarily powerful as possible to stop the Russians take more territory . I welcome the effort that have be make so far and the additional funding , but , as I have say before , we will have to increase defence spending far . the 3 % will not be enough by the next election . although there be many expert on defence and security on both side of this House , my hon . friend be one of the lead voice , have follow it most closely for a great deal of time . I hear what he say , and I be pleased that he welcome our commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence by 2027 — three year early than anyone expect — and to raise that to 3 % in the next Parliament . I know he will also welcome the fact that we be put an extra £ 5 billion into defence spending this year as a marker of that intent . there be nothing in the discussion of the 51 nation and partner at the UDCG in Brussels , which I chair with the Germans , or of the 30 nation in the coalition of the willing , which I chair the previous day in Brussels , to suggest that the strength of the nation that stand with Ukraine be diminish — far from it . we be step up and will step up far . we will stay with Ukraine for as long as it take in the fight , and we will stay with Ukraine for as long as it take in the peace . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . I think the House have rise for Easter recess when President Zelensky announce that 155 chinese troop have be deploy in support of russian force in Ukraine . I invite the Secretary of State to tell we how this major crossing of the Rubicon will change his government ' s approach to China , and how it might inform his discussion with his american counterpart . in the same way that President Putin be increasingly rely both on north korean troop to fight his battle and on iranian missile to hit Ukraine , what this demonstrate be his underlie weakness , not his strength . part of the very strong message that the Chief of the Defence Staff give when he recently visit his counterpart in China be that we see the importance of peace and stability in the Indo - Pacific as a matter not just for those nation in that region , and that the discussion on the future of Taiwan be necessarily one to be conduct by peaceful negotiation rather than by threat and conflict . there be also a very strong concern that the matter of stability , security and peace continue in the Indo - Pacific be something of which we want China to be very well aware . I thank the Secretary of State for his leadership on this topic , and not just in the UK but in Europe . my question relate to tactic . over the weekend , I speak on LinkedIn with a british sniper who be formerly in the Army but be now fight for the Ukrainians on the frontline . he tell I about the tactical change that he have have to make to how he operate , but those change be not reflect in our own sniper training in the Army , the Royal Marines and the british force . therefore , if we be talk about a coalition of the willing and UK troop potentially be involve in defence , when will we update the training syllabus for our own force to reflect the tactic currently in use in Ukraine ? my hon . friend speak on this from a position of great experience and authority . he point to something that hit at the heart of the strategic defence review , which be close to be finalise . hardwire into the term of reference in July , when the Prime Minister commission the review , be the fact that we need to learn the lesson from Ukraine , not in order to fight in Ukraine , but in order to recognise that the nature of warfare be change — the shadow Defence Secretary mention the importance of drone — which mean that the combination of force need to be more integrated . they need to be drive much more by technology , and that will have implication not just for equipment , but for training . I know that my hon . friend will look forward to the publication of the SDR and that he will be on the case , include for the Defence Committee , to ensure that it be fully implement . I welcome his contribution to those debate . couple with the decision of the leader of the free world to describe Ukraine as the aggressor in this war be the news today that America may be consider no long supply the Supreme Allied Commander Europe to NATO . be the Defence Secretary look forward as much as the rest of we be to hear what President Trump have to say , if he come to this Parliament in September , about how it be that the system that keep the peace in Europe for 50 year after the second world war be no long applicable for the future ? the right hon . Gentleman and I will both look forward to the President ' s visit to this country when it be stage . I know that he be so experienced in this area , but I caution he against chase these most recent comment , or regard they as somehow profound . I would say that the US , lead by President Trump — and this have be reinforce by Defence Secretary Hegseth — have rightly challenge Europe to step up on defence spending , on european security and on Ukraine . indicate assent . the right hon . Gentleman be nod his head . but Europe and other nation step up do not mean that the US be step away . when our Prime Minister be in the White House with President Trump , they have — in public and on camera — a detailed discussion about NATO , in which President Trump reaffirm his total commitment to article 5 of the NATO treaty . I thank the Defence Secretary for his statement . it be clear that Russia ' s aggression undermine our security right here at home in the UK . do he agree that the outcome of this war matter deeply to every one of our constituent across the country ? in the high politic of international peace negotiation , and in the brutal drama and killing of the battlefield , it be often easy to overlook the fact that our ability as a Government , and our ability as a nation , to offer Ukraine such support depend on the well of support of the british people . my hon . friend be right that this battle for the future of Ukraine and the huge courage that ukrainian man and woman — military and civilian alike — be show in resist Putin ' s invasion matter to we in the UK . it matter not just because the defence of the UK and Europe start in Ukraine ; it also matter to the british people who open their home to refugee Ukrainians over three year ago when Putin invade . it matter to people in this country because they recognise that the Ukrainians be fight for what we also hold dear : the right to elect their own Government and to determine their own future as a country , and to do that without the menace of a big power and a dictator like Putin over their shoulder . the Defence Secretary have acknowledge mp from across the House who have visit Ukraine . I want to briefly share my experience . when I visit a ukrainian hospital , I meet a man who be suffer from a chemical weapon attack , and doctor be struggle to treat he because they do not know what chemical weapon have be use . can the Secretary of State please confirm what monitor the MOD do of chemical weapon and other war crime in Ukraine , and how be the UK raise that with international partner ? we would abhor any use of chemical weapon . I be not aware of those report , but I will check they out and write to the hon . gentleman . he rightly point to the very sharp end of this ukrainian fight , which be those injure servicemen and woman in ukrainian hospital . I be pleased to say that , from almost the first month , the UK Government be put in place UK military medical support for the ukrainian system . we step that up recently , three month ago , when I announce an increase in support and funding for it . it be an important part of the contribution we can make to keep Ukraine in this fight . I very much welcome the comment from my right hon . friend about the need to spend more of our defence fund on buy weapon make in this country . it be a really helpful comment . the other day I be at BAE Systems , which be build a new factory in my constituency to produce artillery weapon , some of which I hope will go to Ukraine . can my right hon . friend commit that we will supply those weapon to Ukraine while - ever Ukraine want they , and we will treat with a degree of scepticism and complete contempt the comment by Putin , try to manufacture some sort of fake peace to suit his own end ? my hon . friend mention a company in his constituency . I do not know whether he be also refer to Sheffield Forgemasters in his constituency , which be a proud industrial firm in Sheffield , in south Yorkshire , that will be make british steel to supply to a new Rheinmetall artillery barrel factory . it be a new investment in this country , directly as a result of the Trinity House agreement strike in October between the UK and Germany , and it will create 400 job in Britain . it will mean that we be able to produce gun barrel in this country for the first time in over 10 year . it be a good example of investment , just like the £ 1 . 6 billion that I announce a couple of month ago for new short - range air defence missile for Ukraine . we will see over 5 , 000 of those produce in Northern Ireland , create an extra 200 job in Thales in Belfast . it be a good example of where we can support Ukraine , strengthen our own national security and boost economic growth at the same time . " reassurance force " sound like a euphemism for escalation that would expose our boy and girl to very significant risk , yet on 3 March the Prime Minister say to I , from the Dispatch Box , that we would not be deploy troop to Ukraine without a US backstop and without a US security guarantee . he be right , wasn ' t he ? I have already say this afternoon that the Prime Minister have make it clear to President Trump , as I have do to Secretary Hegseth in the US , that we support absolutely their bid to secure a negotiate peace and we expect there to be a role for the US in help to secure that peace for the long term . what we be lead alongside the French be a determined effort — a coalition of the willing — that demonstrate that european nation like we and the French , with the capability to lead such a deployment , be willing to step up and do more . but , as I have say , Europe and nation like the UK step up do not necessarily mean the US step away . the strength of unity these past few week in the Ukraine defence contact group and the coalition of the willing have send an important signal at a critical time for Ukraine . do the Secretary of State agree that it be critical that we and ally express our unwavering support for Ukraine ' s right to exist , its freedom and its national sovereignty ? I do indeed . I wonder whether my hon . friend might help I with some of my speechwriting , as he put it succinctly and much more sharply than I have do this afternoon . this be what be at stake as the Ukrainians fight for their future , fight for their country and fight for their freedom . it be down to we to provide they with the support that they need both in the fight and in the effort to negotiate a long - term peace . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . there be much in it by way of a helpful update , but the key element of it for all of we should be on the final page , where he say that we must not allow " border to be redrawn by force " . that enjoy unanimous support . I have a question on the £ 4 . 5 billion . how much of that be roll over from previous commitment , and will the Secretary of State update the House on how much of it be consume in this financial year ? how much of it be in cash support and how much of it be in mat é riel ? when it come to potential air police in Ukraine , that will be on top of air police in the south Atlantic , quick reaction alert from Coningsby and Lossiemouth , and air police in the Baltic and the eastern Mediterranean . would it not be unconscionable to try to do that without a substantial new order of Tranche 4 Typhoons ? the hon . Member ask about the £ 4 . 5 billion . that be the scale of military support to Ukraine this year . it be more than this country have commit at any time before . that be a combination of £ 3 billion this year , plus £ 1 . 5 billion from the proceed of the seize asset that we be also deploy . we be do this accord to a joint plan that we have develop with Ukraine for 2025 so that we look to supply what it need most . my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary be quite right to say that the announcement by President Putin of a pause in fighting over the Easter weekend be a false promise . we have see many false promise from Putin , and his aggression against not just Ukraine but the whole of Europe be really concern . while we be on recess , he have to scramble RAF typhoon to the Baltic to intercept an Ilyushin Il - 20 M spy aircraft . what more will he do to protect NATO air and maritime space from the aggression of Putin and Russia ? the simple answer be that we will do whatever be require as a UK contribution to the NATO alliance . I be proud of the lead role that the UK play in NATO . I be also proud of the fact that NATO now be big , strong and , with 32 nation , a well deterrent force than it be when Putin first launch his full - scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 . that demonstrate how Putin ' s strategic aim in launch the invasion have come unstuck and so far he have fail to secure any of they . as my hon . friend have say , Putin say he want peace and an end to the fighting ; now be the time , for the first time , for he to demonstrate that , to match his word with his action and to negotiate seriously for that long - term , last peace . may I thank the Secretary of State for take the first opportunity to make this important statement ? I congratulate he on his work with the coalition of the willing . it will be important in that — build on the comment of the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) — to understand the term of engagement if that be to happen and peace be to be secure . we can not permit woolly thinking , because that could allow another situation like Srebrenica to happen again . will the Secretary of State assure I that he be work hard , that what any term of engagement would be be on the agenda , and that people be crystal clear about what those term could be to secure peace ? I can , indeed . the right hon . Gentleman be exactly right : the potential term of engagement be an important part of any planning , as be the term of any peace process and settlement . that will set the framework for the potential role of any reassurance force . I can say to he and to the House that at the appropriate point , this House will have a full opportunity to discuss and debate those matter . I welcome the commitment of the Government — both past and present — to Ukraine . just like this House , citizen in Norwich stand with the people of Ukraine . as the Secretary of State know , £ 2 . 5 billion be promise for Ukraine after the sale of Chelsea football club by Roman Abramovich . as far as I understand it , that money remain frozen in a UK bank account . will the Secretary of State update we on any progress in unlock that fund , which be much need for the people of Ukraine ? if my hon . friend will permit I , I will double - check with my colleague in the Department that lead on that and write to she with the late position on the Abramovich billion . the Secretary of State always speak softly but firmly ; we thank he for that . he represent the view of the people . the news that Russia be seek peace talk be certainly hearten , but how will the Secretary of State ensure that Russia understand that it be not , and never will be , peace at any price ? the ally will continue to support Ukraine until a sustainable peace be achieve and will not force Ukraine to accept a deal that do not honour the sacrifice — of life , grief , the loss of education and hope of a future — that so many Ukrainians have make over so many year . if I may say so , that be a very moving contribution . part of the power of this place be not just Ministers and Government account to Parliament , but Parliament find its voice in exactly the way that the hon . Gentleman say . he ask about my message to Putin . his own message and the message from this House this afternoon be strong and clear . I recently lead a roundtable of large defence manufacturer at BAE Systems ' base in Christchurch . they have one clear message , which be that they want to support Ukraine . Bournemouth stand too with Ukraine . I therefore particularly welcome the Prime Minister ' s commitment , announce today , of UK contract worth £ 30 million for drone to support Ukraine . will the Defence Secretary say how the UK will boost job and growth with defence spending to support Ukraine ? will he particularly say how Dorset defence manufacturer might be able to benefit too ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the message of support to Ukrainians from his constituent and business in Dorset . he be in a part of the country where some of the most innovative and creative company in the defence and security field be locate . I be glad to hear of the company that have recently get the £ 30 million contract . my hon . friend might like to look at some of the detail of the Chancellor ' s spring statement . part of the confirmation that she and I make then be that , from this point , 10 % of the defence budget will be allocate to develop , purchase and supply novel technology for our own force that the manufacturer that he cite from his constituency be involve in produce . what planning be take place among the ally to make up for the 40 % of armament that have hitherto be supply by the United States to Ukraine , should it become necessary to do so ? that be exactly the focus of the Ukraine defence contact group , and the purpose of pull those 51 nation and partner together 10 day ago and secure the confirmation of a record € 21 billion in extra military aid for Ukraine during the course of this year . that be support by the US , with the presence of Defence Secretary Hegseth , who welcome what he see quite clearly as confirmation that european nation and other be step up to meet the challenge that he and President Trump have issue to we , quite rightly , and step up to meet the challenge that require we to do more to keep Ukraine in the fight and strong for a potential peace that we all hope will be negotiate . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . keep ourselves , Europe and Ukraine safe mean that we have to produce more fighting force than Putin can , but traditionally this country have focus on produce exquisite and expensive platform . clearly that trade - off be change , and we be see $ 1 , 000 drone in Ukraine destroy $ 9 million tank . the production trade - off between expendable and exquisite platform have to change across our ally and ourselves . produce those drone take month ; it will take year even to upgrade our own Challenger tank . will the Secretary of State set out how that change trade - off in production will be implement and introduce in the strategic defence review and the defence industrial strategy to keep ourselves , Europe and Ukraine safe ? my hon . friend be spot on , and he provide the answer to his own question about how that necessary understanding from what we have see in Ukraine , and in other conflict zone in the middle east recently , must involve a combination of the more traditional , sophisticated defence platform that we have tend to procure , with much more rapidly update , updatable and upgradable new technology such as drone . that will be set out in the strategic defence review and capture in the defence industrial strategy , but I hope my hon . friend will see the announcement that I refer to in the spring statement of a determination to earmark 10 % of defence equipment spend from this year on for novel technology such as the one he cite . I very much welcome the robust tone of the Secretary of State ' s statement and his response , but I be sure that deep inside he also regret the fact that they be not reflect by many in the US Administration . although across the House I be sure that we all appreciate the diplomatic challenge of deal with President Trump and his Administration , it would be reassure if the Secretary of State could confirm that at some level it have be convey that it be deeply unhelpful , and indeed disconcert to the ukrainian diaspora in this country , that President Trump do parrot Kremlin line . President Trump have create this opportunity . he have create this opportunity of a ceasefire , which the Ukrainians , as a party of peace in this process , have declare they be ready to accept . he have create the opportunity for a negotiate last peace . our job be to reinforce his effort in do so . we be do just that . we be support the Ukrainians in those negotiation , and we be support the US and contribute to those negotiation where we can . the next stage of that will be in London tomorrow . our Prime Minister have convene the large , strong group of country yet behind a just and last peace in Ukraine . do the Defence Secretary agree that the UK have a unique leadership role in secure peace , and that this extend beyond the provision of military asset to galvanise all our ally on uphold share value , help our friend to stand up to bully , believe in sovereignty and protect the rule - base system ? in the wide sense , the long - term defence of the UK be happen in Ukraine . I agree . the UK do indeed have a unique leadership role , as my hon . Friend say , alongside the French in the coalition of the willing . in my discussion and involvement with military planner , Defence Ministers and other on this matter , I have be strike by how other nation recognise the unique role and responsibility of the UK and the French — they welcome it . in each case , every nation have a contribution to make , and that be what we be try to marshal through the military planning detail and the reinforcement of the coalition of the willing . to what extent do the 39 - member coalition accept that the United States be still the indispensable partner in any so - call peacekeeping operation ? unless a peacekeeping force in Ukraine be ready and prepare to fight and defeat the russian armed force , there be no point in it be there . indeed , as my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) say early , it would be just a victim of another tragedy . on that point , to what extent would the primacy of NATO be recognise in any propose EU - UK defence agreement ? again , we do not want inadvertently to send a message to the United States that NATO be over , we no long need the Americans and we be go off on our own , because we will not be capable of do that for decade . the hon . Gentleman be right : NATO be the cornerstone of our european security . that be fundamental and the starting point for any future planning . the potential for the EU and the UK to strike some sort of defence and security pact or agreement be a recognition that the EU and the Commission also have a role to play , and indicate their recognition that the UK need to be involve in those programme , and industry procurement , and potentially — as the commissioner responsible for this have acknowledge — have access to the scheme and funding that may be available to underpin that . on the US role , fundamentally what will secure Ukraine ' s long - term future and a last peace be the strength of its own deterrent capacity — the strength of Ukraine , which it have show in the past three year , to deter any future russian attack . that be one of the principal purpose of the planning for a reassurance force . however , as I and the Prime Minister have argue , and as we have say in the House , there be an indispensable role for the US in try to foster and bring that negotiate peace , as well as in help to secure it for the long term . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and his ongoing leadership on this issue . I know that the people of Ukraine will be very pleased and hopeful , give the share voice across this Chamber . do he agree that the lesson from Ukraine be that the nature of warfare have change , and can he confirm that the strategic defence review will incorporate those lesson into its finding ? I can indeed . I have be make that argument for some time , before and since the last election . my hon . friend , who have unique experience , make the same argument . Ukraine tell we that the nature of warfare be change . it be change fast than ever , drive by technology . we have to adopt and incorporate those lesson for our future ability to equip our own armed force so that they be fit to fight in the way that will be require to deter adversary and keep we safe . I congratulate the Defence Secretary on co - chair the 27th meeting of the Ukraine defence contact group . while it be good to see the german Defence Minister also chairing , that role be carry out until 9 January by the US Secretary of Defence . Defence Secretary Hegseth do attend early this month , but it be remote attendance across a secure platform . if we see in the come week any reduction in US air defence support for Ukraine or other mat é riel , how might the UK respond ? the hon . Gentleman have be in the House long enough to know that I can not possibly — and I will not start to — respond to such hypothetical . part of the challenge of the new US Administration to european nation such as the UK be to say , " step up . " we be step up , but we have do more , and we will do more . one of the particular request from the US Administration be that we take on convene and chair the uniquely important and successful Ukraine defence contact group — which , the hon . Gentleman be right , be establish and chair up until the change of Administration by the US . we agree to do that alongside the Germans . that be why the 27th contact group be convene and co - chair by I and the german Defence Minister . rise — I be go to get all member in , but that would be greatly help if we could have short question . over recess , I deliver a message of solidarity from St Andrew ' s church in Barrhead to St Andrew church in Bucha , the site of a horrific massacre . it be clear when I be in Kyiv that that brutality have mean the Ukrainians be still determined to fight , but again and again , they raise their concern about their exposure and their overreliance on american air defence . what can we do to mitigate that , and what consideration have the Secretary of State give to create an integrate air defence zone in the west of Ukraine ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for be out in Ukraine , demonstrate the solidarity of Government Members and the House in general . as he will have hear in his conversation with the Ukrainians , the overwhelming priority of the civilian population be air defence . that be why the announcement of the £ 1 . 6 billion that I put into new short - range air defence missile — lightweight multi - role missile , or LMMs — to Ukraine be so important . it be also why the work we have do in recent month alongside Denmark to develop Gravehawk , an innovative new technical system to help reinforce ukrainian air defence system that we will be able to roll out more generally , be so important . it be that combination of innovation , industrial speed and partnership with Ukraine that be reinforce Ukraine ' s ability to fight for itself and protect itself . the Secretary of State rightly begin his statement by condemn the russian missile attack on Sumy on Palm Sunday , which kill civilian and child . however , he will be aware of russian claim that this be a military target and that 60 ukrainian military commander be kill , as be NATO servicemen who be " in charge " . can he confirm that we will not only provide increase military support to Ukraine , but step up effort against Russian lie in the information war ? I can indeed . these be man , woman and child on their way to church ; child be kill and severely injure in the attack . Madam Deputy Speaker , I know you want short question and short answer at this stage . with other member of the Foreign Affairs Committee , I be in Ukraine before Easter , and there be three separate air attack while we be in Kyiv . fortunately , the air defence in Kyiv be particularly good , but that be not the case elsewhere in the country . could the Secretary of State say more about how we be support Ukraine on air defence and whether we be consider support the new Sky Shield system ? alongside drone , we have give the high priority to what we can do to support air defence system in Ukraine . I have mention some of the recent commitment we have make and delivery we be undertake . during the course of 2025 , we will develop and deliver more of those . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . he quite rightly draw attention to the huge number of loss of russian troop in the conflict , and the equally huge number of loss on the ukrainian side . after the unsuccessful attempt at a ceasefire over Easter , do he see any prospect of anyone else intervene to try to bring about talk between Russia and Ukraine that could lead to a last ceasefire and ultimately a settlement ? the late Pope Francis try to intervene , as do the African Union and a number of latin american leader . this war can not go on forever . somebody have to intervene to try to bring about a process that will lead to a ceasefire that will stop the tragic loss of so many life . the right hon . Gentleman be right that the war have to end and that there have to be a process that can lead to a political and negotiate settlement . my view , and the Government ' s view , be that give the momentum behind the American - lead negotiation at the moment , the good chance to achieve that be to throw our weight behind those negotiation to try to ensure they succeed . I know that my constituent , not least the ukrainian family who have find safety in our community , will have be horrify by Russia ' s conduct over Easter . do the Secretary of State agree that Russia ' s action over the Easter weekend show that Ukraine be still very much in the fight against russian aggression and that Ukraine deserve our full support ? will he reassure the ukrainian family in my community that that be exactly what Ukraine will have ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s community and the welcome that his constituent have show to ukrainian family , who be now part and parcel of the community . I hope his constituent , include the Ukrainians among they , will be reassure by the strength of the House ' s cross - party support for their continued fight , and by our determination to try to secure a long - term peace in Ukraine . do the Defence Secretary believe that report that the US have withdraw intelligence sharing with Ukraine be an exaggeration ? if not , do he believe that the UK and our trust partner in the coalition of the willing can do a work - around on intelligence sharing ? there be a moment when intelligence sharing with Ukraine be pause , but it be restart with the momentum behind the talk , at the point at which Ukraine and the US be back on the same page . I be proud to say that the UK play a part in do that and those arrangement be an important part of Ukraine be able to withstand the onslaught from President Putin . to support our ukrainian friend , we need a robust sovereign industrial base . one proposal to help finance that and enhance supply chain security be the creation of a multilateral armament bank , such as the propose Defence , Security and Resilience Bank . do the Secretary of State agree with I that the Government should explore that potentially game - change solution ? yes , I agree with my hon . friend , and we be . that be part of the preparation for the defence industrial strategy . we want to find way to maximise the investment go to british firm and british job , while make an important contribution not just to the defence and security of our own country , but to those of our ally as well . the House rightly spend a lot of time talk about Russia , but Russia can not act without Belarus . will the Secretary of State update we on the discussion about Belarus ' s role , and whether that be discuss in his recent meeting ? to be quite honest with the hon . Gentleman , Belarus be not discuss . Russia be do the active invasion and the attack . Belarus be certainly an ally of President Putin , but not an active participant in this attack on Ukraine . in his statement , the Secretary of State be right to link the record level of spending on Ukraine with the opportunity for UK industry , but I be sure he would agree that that opportunity be also a challenge for the scale - up of the industry and the development cycle for new technology . in addition to the support for innovation and financing , will be the Department consider additional measure to support our supply chain to build capability , so that organisation like our own defence cluster in Teesside can take their rightful place in support both Ukraine and the UK ? we be indeed . my hon . friend be completely right , and his long experience in industry bear that out . have a productive capacity that be sovereign and in the UK be one thing , but if it can not be supply by the essential component and material require , the strategic strength be undermine . we be very conscious of that as we develop a new defence industrial strategy , which we have not have in this country since the one produce in 2021 . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for his statement . will he set out what recent step have be take by the Government to support the ukrainian prosecutor general in investigate and prosecute domestic war crime ? the Speaker will be aware of this matter from his recent visit to Ukraine , particularly to Bucha . the hon . Gentleman will know that from the outset , the UK Government , under the previous and current regime , have continue to support with legal expertise and funding , where it be helpful , the evidence gathering and potential case build that I hope will lead to the prosecution he want to see . the Secretary of State speak of send a clear signal to Vladimir Putin — I hope that his US counterpart will not take that too literally . regardless , I would prefer to send drone the way of President Zelensky , and some £ 25 billion of frozen russian asset would buy an awful lot of drone . I hear what the Secretary of State say , but I plead with he to take the lead on this and let the Ukrainians win in their fine hour . I hear what the hon . Gentleman say . I hope he hear what I say in response to his Front Bench spokeswoman , the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , on that issue . medium report and statement from representative of the US Administration in recent day have suggest various option for Ukraine ' s post - war border , many of which would see the ceding of ukrainian sovereign territory . I appreciate that the Defence Secretary will not want to comment on media speculation , but give his commitment to a just and last peace in Ukraine , ahead of the talk tomorrow , will he say what the Government ' s red line be regard any peace proposal from the US ' s mediator that recognise occupy ukrainian territory as russian ? I include Crimea in that scope . I be sorry to disappoint the hon . Gentleman , but he cite medium report then say that he do not expect I to comment on they , and I will not . I welcome the fact that the Government have once again stand firm with Ukraine as it fight to defend its territory and send a message to dictator that they can not change border by military force . the Secretary of State have be ask twice already about this today , but we be give € 21 billion - worth of munition and so on to Ukraine , and billion of russian asset be seize as part of the sanction we impose on the regime . we have not have an answer from he yet on what progress be be make on that . do he not fear , like I , that give the transactional nature of the way in which President Trump approach these negotiation , those asset could become part of the negotiation , which would mean that Russia could hold on to they , avoid sanction and avoid pay for the carnage it have cause in Ukraine ? as I say to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , work be go on with ally on the question of the russian asset . our first focus in the Ukraine defence contact group be on what we could do now , what we could do quickly and what we could do in order to keep Ukraine in the fight today , because it be important that we do not jeopardise the prospect of peace by forget about the war . that be where the € 21 billion — a record level of commitment — come from in that meeting in Brussels 10 day ago . lastly , I call John Cooper . hear , hear ! thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it have well be good ! I have well think of something quick . I will return to the question of fishing . it be right that we draw together with our european ally to fight and to bring this war to an end . however , it can not be right for the French to leverage in fishing negotiation for defence spending . will the Secretary of State press on the Prime Minister the need to defend our fragile coastal community and make it clear to Paris that this can not be helicopter for haddock or mackerel for missile ? that be worth wait for . my first focus as Defence Secretary be secure a defence and security agreement and see that as the passport to more british firm and british job as we play our part in some of the Europe - wide procurement programme and industrial development that we need to see . I thank the Defence Secretary for his statement . I will allow a few moment for the Front Benchers to swap over . " for Women Scotland " Supreme Court Ruling with permission , I will now make a statement to update the House on the Supreme Court judgment in the case of for Women Scotland Ltd v . the Scottish Ministers . this ruling bring welcome clarity and confidence for woman and service provider . single - sex space must be protect , and this be personal to I ; before I be elect to this place , I run a woman ' s refuge in the north - east for woman and child flee domestic violence . I know how important to survivor it be , and always be , to have single - sex space base on biology — place of safety after trauma , time in a sanctuary that allow they therapeutic support , heal from unimaginable male violence and fear . I remember how hard countless campaigner have to fight over many decade to get any single - sex provision at all , in order to create woman ' s refuge and rape crisis centre . later , I remember how hard it be to convince commissioner that young homeless woman try to heal from terrifying act of cruelty should not be leave in mixed - sex accommodation . I will continue to fight for that provision to ensure that woman ' s safety , woman ' s privacy and woman ' s dignity be always protect . this government will continue as before , work to protect single - sex space base on biological sex — now with the add clarity of this ruling — and we will continue our wide work with commitment and compassion to protect all those who need it , right across society . this be a Government who will support the right of woman and tran people , now and always . this be a Government who will support the right of all people with protect characteristic , now and always . this be a Government who will support the right of our most vulnerable , now and always . on that , there be no change to announce : dignity and respect for all , now and always . but this be a judgment long in the making . it begin in 2018 when Scottish Ministers issue guidance on the definition of a woman in the eye of the Gender Representation on Public Boards ( Scotland ) Act 2018 . that guidance state that a woman in that Act bear the same meaning as a woman in the Equality Act 2010 , and include tran woman with a gender recognition certificate . [ Official Report , 24 April 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 12wc . ] ( Correction ) for Women Scotland challenge that guidance , say that sex in the Equality Act mean biological sex , so that a trans woman with a gender recognition certificate be a man for the purpose of the Act . the case be appeal to the Supreme Court , and last week , the court rule that sex in the Equality Act mean biological sex . this mean that a person will be consider as their biological sex for the purpose of the Equality Act , regardless of whether or not they have a gender recognition certificate . I know that the woman who bring this challenge have not always be treat with the respect they deserve . this government believe in freedom of speech and in the fundamental right to protest , but in no way do that extend to criminal damage . there can be no excuse for defaced statue of feminist icon , no excuse for threat , and no excuse for harassment . such act seek to drag down the debate , away from common sense and the sensible view — hold by the majority of the british public — that woman need single - sex space , that those space should be protect , and that we can protect those space while treat trans people with respect as well . as such , the certainty that this judgment bring be welcome . now , it be time to move forward . there be now a need to ensure that this ruling be clear across a range of setting , from healthcare and prison to sport and single - sex support group . the Equality and Human Rights Commission , as Britain ' s equality regulator , be work quickly to issue an update statutory code of practice to reflect this judgment , and I look forward to review that code of practice in due course . alongside these update , our work to protect single - sex space across society continue in earnest , because for far too long , under the Conservative Government , single - sex space be anything but — and nowhere be that clear than in our hospital . year after year , the Conservatives pledge to close mixed - sex ward ; and yet year after year , their use not only persist but grow massively . year after year , often in their most vulnerable moment , woman be deny the privacy and dignity they deserve . time after time , Conservative Ministers , include the now Leader of the Opposition , come to this House and tour television studio tell the public that they be protect single - sex space in our hospital . the truth be very different , because as last year ' s datum tell we , the use of mixed - sex ward rise by more than 2 , 200 % in 10 year under the last Tory Government . there be no well example of rhetoric divorce from reality and of a party playing politic with the safety of woman , and we will never let they forget it . by contrast , this Government will protect woman ' s ward and NHS England will soon publish guidance on how trans patient should be accommodate in clinical setting . we will end the practice of mixed - sex ward once and for all . it be not just in our NHS that we will act on behalf of woman . in prison , we will continue to protect woman ' s safety with single - sex accommodation . in woman ' s sport , I have always back integrity and fairness . biology matter for competitive sport , and sporting body have issue rule to reflect that . in our prison , in our hospital , in sport and in a whole host of other space , what be true before the ruling remain true after the ruling . this Government protect safe space for woman under the Equality Act 2010 . for too many year , we have see the heat dial up in this debate by the Conservatives . there be no real action to protect woman ' s space , while under their watch the use of mixed - sex ward increase , an epidemic of violence against woman and girl spread across the country and woman ' s health be neglect . this Labour Government will deliver for woman through our plan for change , drive down waiting list month after month , tackle misogyny throughout society , and once and for all deliver justice for survivor of violence against woman and girl . I know that many trans people will be worry in the wake of the Supreme Court ruling , so I want to provide reassurance here and now that trans people will continue to be protect . we will deliver a full trans - inclusive ban on conversion practice . we will work to equalise all exist strand of hate crime , and we will review adult gender identity service , so that all tran people get the high - quality care they deserve . the law to protect trans people from discrimination and harassment will remain in place , and trans people will still be protect on the basis of gender reassignment — a protect characteristic write into Labour ' s Equality Act . this Government will offer trans people the dignity that too often they be deny by the Conservatives . too often , trans people be a convenient punchbag and the butt of joke make in this place by the Conservatives , culminate rather shamefully in the previous Prime Minister stand at this Dispatch Box try to score cheap laugh from his Back Benchers at the expense of vulnerable people . by contrast , this Government be clear that trans people deserve safety , opportunity and respect . this verdict be about clarity and coherence in the eye of the law , but the Supreme Court judge deliver along with that verdict a vital reminder : this be not about the triumph of one group at the expense of another . it be not about winner or loser , and it be not about we or they . that be the message I want to reinforce today in this House . everyone in our society deserve dignity and respect . those value be not and never will be a zero - sum battle . dignity and respect for all — those be the value that lift we up and set we free . those be the value that define and distinguish any modern and compassionate society . those be the value that this Government will do everything to promote and protect , now and always . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I thank the Minister for Women and Equalities for advance sight of her statement , even if it be mostly a shameless work of fiction . I could not believe my eye , or my ear , this afternoon . in 2021 the Prime Minister say it be " not right " to say that only woman have a cervix . in 2022 he say it be the law that " trans woman be woman " . in 2023 he say , " 99 % of woman don ' t have a penis " . I know what a woman be , and I always have . the people of this country know what a woman be . we do not need the Supreme Court to tell we that , but this Government do : a Labour Government so desperate to jump on a bandwagon that they abandon common sense , along with the Scottish National party — which put rapist in woman ' s prison — and , of course , the Liberal Democrats . the Supreme Court ruling be a powerful victory for the determined woman behind for Women Scotland , and for people all over the UK who know how important it be to give privacy and dignity to woman and girl who need it , but it follow year of battle . individual woman take action to uphold the law at great personal cost , lose their job and their reputation . a few week ago I meet the Darlington nurse who be force to bring legal action after a male nurse start use their change room . even their union , the Royal College of Nursing , refuse to represent they . woman should not have to battle the NHS or their employer through the court . why have it be such a battle ? because something as simple as biological reality become politicised and corrupt by activist push this ideology as foolish politician cheer . even the Minister — who say in her statement that this be " personal " to she — state just last year that man should access woman ' s space . whether it be female victim in our court be force to refer to their male sex attacker as " she " or the NHS use confusing " gender - neutral " language , put the health of woman at risk , this be a serious matter . at every point when we have fight for woman , we have face hostility from activist group and the Labour party : in 2020 , when we reject labour ' s call to introduce self - identification , and in 2021 , when the then Home Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , order police force to stop record offence by tran woman in female crime statistic . the current Culture Secretary , the right hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , say that crime commit by man should be record how they wish , and that those convict of serious sexual offence should be hold in jail that match their choose gender . it be crazy then , and it be crazy now . I spend year battle abuse from Labour Members as I fight to uphold biological sex in government and block the SNP ' s introduction of its mad self - identity law , and I will take no lecture from they about what to do on this issue . woman and gay right group such as the LGB Alliance be even refuse stand at the Labour party conference . the idea that Labour have support this all along be for the bird . the Foreign Secretary describe opponent of self - ID as " dinosaur " . labour now say that it know what a woman be , and that transgender people should use service and facility designate for their biological sex . it have never say that before , and this be a u - turn , but we welcome it . now that we have legal clarity , will the Prime Minister show some courage and do the right thing ? will he apologise to the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) , who face so many security concern as she be hound out by the Labour party , and who be rebuke by the Prime Minister , and by many Labour mp who be sit there look at I , for state what the Supreme Court have now rule to be true ? will the Minister apologise to the hon . member for Canterbury ? I doubt it . will the Prime Minister crack down on the group whom we see deface statue of suffragist over the weekend with the same energy that he reserve for his political opponent , or will we see more two - tier justice ? last time we see Labour mps stand next to they with no rebuke whatsoever . will the Minister ensure that the Equality and Human Rights Commission have the Government ' s full support in its enforcement of the code of practice ? in particular , will she condemn the Labour Ministers who describe Baroness Falkner ' s entirely correct position on the judgment as " appal " ? we need to root out gender ideology from our institution . this government now have a serious job to do , as many organisation will still fail woman . I ask the follow question . as Minister for Women and Equalities , I publish guidance for school that make it clear that toilet and change room must be provide separately for girl and boy , but the Minister scrap that guidance . will she stand up to the union and urgently publish what she now admit be the law ? she have also scrap relationship , sex and health education guidance that would prevent school from teach contest gender ideology as fact . will she now publish the guidance , and remove material that mis - state the law ? will she act to stop passport and licence be issue with information on they about self - declare , rather than legal , sex ? will the Government support our amendment to the datum Bill to ensure that digital ID system record biological sex accurately ? finally , the Minister say that she be here to protect transgender people , many of whom be mislead by Labour ' s mis - statement on this issue . some be now leave very anxious . she have not provide any reassurance , and she should not use they as a shield to protect her failure . this be not the end of the matter , but the beginning of the end . there be so much to do , and the conservative party , under my leadership , will be relentless in ensure that the Government do the right thing . I be delighted to see the right hon . Lady in her place today . many would run from a record like hers on these matter , but not the right hon . Lady . she and the conservative party have 14 year to provide clarity on the issue that they now claim to take an interest in . the Supreme Court have confirm that Labour ' s Equality Act 2010 be the basis for single - sex space and protection , but the Conservatives do not provide that clarity . before I say a bit more about her record , I will say a little more about mine . I will come to the question — [ interruption . ] if the right hon . Lady have some patience , I will respond to her question . I have support countless woman and child flee appalling male violence , sexual violence and domestic abuse . I have campaign for decade on woman ' s right . I know more than most about the importance of space for woman — I have fight for they , I have deliver they and I have run they . while I be run a refuge , and while Labour be deliver the groundbreake Equality Act , which , as this ruling confirm , set in law the basis for single - sex space , what be the Leader of the Opposition do ? forever the keyboard warrior , she be busy hack the website of the lead architect of the Equality Act , and she have learn nothing from her party ' s crush electoral defeat last year . she hold the post of Minister for Women and Equalities for two year and do precisely nothing . she provide no clarity in the law and nothing to improve the life of woman , which get materially bad on her watch . the right hon . Lady come here claim to speak for woman , but let we look at her record and her party ' s record . there have be an increase in stalk offence . prosecution and conviction for domestic abuse have nearly halve since 2015 . the rape charge rate be at a record low . survivor of sexual violence be wait year for justice . there have be a 2 , 000 % increase in the use of mixed - sex ward in only 10 year . that be the Conservatives ' record . the right hon . Lady ask about the Equality and Human Rights Commission ' s statutory code of practice . I have set out that I be expect an update version of that as soon as possible . I will work with the Equality and Human Rights Commission to implement the code of practice , to make sure that everyone have the clarity that they require , and I expect the ehrc to work quickly and thoroughly on this matter . the right hon . Lady ask about gender - question guidance and RSHE guidance . I be afraid that too be simply laughable . mere month before the election be call , the Conservatives publish a version of the draft guidance for gender - question child . since that time , we have have the final review by Dr Hilary Cass publish . it be right that we ensure that the guidance align with Dr Cass ' s final review . on the RSHE guidance , the consultation conclude after the election . we could not be clear that we will always protect single - sex space , and we Labour Members be focus on deliver for woman . whereas the Leader of the Opposition have describe maternity pay as " excessive " and call the minimum wage " harmful " , we be improve protection for pregnant woman at work . we be ensure that woman can take maternity leave and come back to good , secure job . we be expand childcare , the first 750 new free breakfast club open today , and we have bring forward the single big piece of child protection legislation in a generation to protect young woman and girl . it be labour ' s groundbreake Equality Act that provide the basis for what we have set out today about single - sex space for biological woman . this Labour Government have a plan for change ; a plan that will deliver for woman . it be time for the conservative party to get offline and get on board . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . far from this ruling provide clarity , trans , intersex and non - binary people be instead anxious and unsure about where this ruling leave they , legally and practically , as they go about their life . do the Minister recognise that this ruling be make without a single contribution from trans people ? will she ensure that trans , intersex and non - binary people be involve in any upcoming new guidance , and if so , how ? I believe that this ruling provide much - need clarity . I do recognise the Chair of the Select Committee ' s concern about ensure that all people be treat with dignity and respect , include trans people . my expectation be that the ehrc , in the development of the code of practice and the guidance , will engage with a range of stakeholder with different view , and will then set out that work in full . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . of course , I respect the independence of the Supreme Court and the ruling it have make , interpret the law as it stand , just as I respect the concern of many woman , and the now increase fear of the LGBT community . I also respect what the Minister have to say about her experience of work in a refuge , and I agree that there be no length to which we should not go to ensure protection for woman who be in the situation that she describe . however , give what she say , I be sure that she will agree with I that that should not come at the cost of the human right and the security of another vulnerable group in society , which be what this ruling threaten to bring about . could she explain where transgender people flee violence can now go for refuge , if they be to be completely exclude from refuge ? for year , we have have this intolerable debate , in which two vulnerable group have be pit against each other . those two group be afraid of the same thing — violence , mostly from man . the challenge for this Labour Government be to live up to the spirit of perhaps one of the proud achievement of a previous Labour Government — the Equality Act — and protect everyone . if this government be not able to do that , do the Minister think it would be acceptable to see tran woman force into man ' s toilet , to face goodness know what sort of aggression , and potentially violence , there ? will she confirm what she say about protect tran right ? we need some leadership from this Government . I have write to the Minister and ask she if we will see legislation that give that protection , because we must remember that what we be deal with here be not hypothetical . it be about real life , real fear and real concern among the LGBT community . equality and human right should never be the preserve of one — order . I be grateful to the hon . Lady . as she say , she have write to I on this topic , and I or a member of the ministerial team would be happy to meet she to discuss this far . where we can agree be that dignity and respect should be for all in our country — for woman and for tran people — and trans people should not face discrimination or harassment on the basis of who they be . however , I believe that ensure a society that treat everyone with dignity and respect be entirely compatible with ensure that single - sex space can continue to exist for biological woman who require safety and dignity , particularly follow period of terrible abuse . it be important that service be available for tran people in addition , and it be often the case that those service be much well provide by those with the specialist knowledge and expertise to deliver they . I agree that this should not be see as a conflict . the ruling from the Supreme Court , while be clear about the importance of biological sex , be at pain to stress that trans people do retain clear protection in law , and should be able to live their life free of harassment and discrimination . I have already be contact by several LGBTQ + and trans organisation in my constituency of Monmouthshire that be really concerned and frighten about the implication of this judgment . will the Minister commit to meet tran people from my constituency , such as those from Queerspace , Abergavenny Pride and Monmouth Pride , to hear their concern about the impact of this ruling ? I note my hon . friend ' s concern , and I can assure she that I will continue to meet a range of stakeholder in this important area , because I agree with she that no one should face prejudice or discrimination because of who they be . that be why we be work with the Home Office to deliver our commitment to equalise all exist strand of hate crime and make they aggravate offence . we will work right across this House to ensure that , while we maintain single - sex space for biological woman , trans people have the support and respect they deserve , include in access to healthcare service . will the Secretary of State take action to ensure that policy and lesson in school be not lead by external organisation that have be capture by contested gender ideology ? as I set out in my response to the Leader of the Opposition , we will publish revised guidance for RSHE . it be an important principle that parent should understand what be be teach to their child at school , and we will ensure that that be maintain . over the last few day , the number of call to Switchboard , the national LGBT + helpline in my constituency , have skyrocket . the caller be in fear of what this ruling mean for they . Trans people who be frightened to use public loo today know that the overwhelming threat to woman and to all the trans community be the violence that we suffer from cis man . do the Minister agree that we should all be clear about that ? I agree that male violence remain a very serious challenge that we face as a country , and it be a challenge this Labour Government be determined to confront . the ruling of the Supreme Court be clear about the importance of biological sex , but I would not want any trans person in my right hon . friend ' s constituency , or anywhere across the country , to be fearful . I believe that everyone have the right to be treat with dignity and respect , and should not face discrimination or harassment . that be why we will back the police in ensure that action be take against anyone who behave in that way . I would be grateful if the Minister focus on her Government and the future implication of this judgment . in her statement , she say that " NHS England will soon publish guidance on how trans patient should be accommodate in clinical setting . " I will read to she what the Worcestershire acute hospital NHS trust have in its guidance : " patient should always be treat as the gender they identify as , regardless of what their transition look like or how long they have share their gender identity with other … patient should always be in an environment that align with their gender identity . " would she say to this trust that it need to act very quickly to change that guidance ? my colleague and official in the Department of Health and Social Care be in contact with NHS England to ensure that guidance be set out rapidly to provide the clarity require after the Supreme Court judgment . if the hon . Lady share with I the detail of what she have just read out , I will happily make sure that that be investigate far . I welcome the ruling from the Supreme Court and the Minister ' s statement . the Supreme Court have be clear that " sex " in the Equality Act 2010 mean biological sex . the question now turn to how we make sure that the Equality Act be properly understand and implement . how will the Minister ensure that public body , third - sector organisation , sport body , regulated sector and so on comply with the Act , so that woman ' s safety , privacy and dignity be protect ? as I say , we will work with the ehrc to provide further guidance to service provider , include through the update to the statutory code of practice . we expect the ehrc to do that as rapidly as possible , recognise that this be a thorough and detailed piece of work . but it be important that service provider , arise from this Supreme Court ruling , now have the clarity and confidence that be always there in the Equality Act 2010 . the Supreme Court ' s ruling go a long way to guarantee the right and safety of woman and girl . do the Minister agree that the judgment highlight why it be now right for the SNP Government finally to ditch the divisive gender self - ID agenda once and for all , and prove it be totally wrong for Scottish Labour to back the SNP Gender Recognition Reform ( Scotland ) Bill ? my understanding be that the Scottish Government do not intend to progress their gender recognition reform . my official will work with the ehrc , which in turn will work with the Scottish Government . I believe that Scottish Ministers have indicate that they wish to engage with the ehrc on the guidance , which be an important and welcome development . I be proud to represent a constituency that show tolerance to people from all background , unlike the political hot potato the issue have become in this place and in political dialogue . I have a constituent who transition in the 1970 . she have use female toilet for more of her life than any other toilet . be we say that her dignity and the respect the Minister talk about will be in any way improve if there be a ban on she use the toilet she have be use for so many year ? the Supreme Court ruling make it clear that the provision of single - sex space be on the basis of biological sex , but what I would say to my hon . friend and her constituent be that the development of the code of practice , which the ehrc will set out , will make sure that business and other will ensure dignity and respect for all , and that there be appropriate provision , include the use of toilet facility , so that no one , include trans people , must feel unsafe when they use public toilet . everyone must be able to access service with their dignity uphold and privacy respect , include woman and tran people , but follow the Supreme Court ruling many people be feel confused and concerned . we must not allow it to lead to far heated argument and toxicity . what step be the Minister take to develop the critical guidance need to give business and public body clarity on how the ruling should be implement , so that everyone be treat with the dignity they deserve ? we will work with the ehrc on that guidance . it will present a revise code of practice , which I will review and present in due course . it be important that it do that as quickly as possible but , as I have say , this be a complex area and it must be undertake thoroughly , with engagement with a range of stakeholder , include business , for the reason the hon . Lady identifie . far from clarity , the verdict raise as many question as it answer . indeed , it have be refer to by the civil servant Melanie Field , who oversee the Equality Act ' s drafting and passage , as have significantly reinterpret Parliament ' s intention . these question be primarily about the purpose now of the gender recognition certificate and whether exclusion from single - sex space be merely lawful or require . but in protect woman ' s space such as toilet from predatory man pretend to be trans woman , what exactly stop those same man from now access they by pretend to be tran man ? I understand the concern my hon . friend express and why she raise those question , but I have to say to she that the position of the Government be that the Supreme Court have provide clarity and confidence in this area , particularly where it come to single - sex space be on the basis of biological sex . the basis for that be the Equality Act , introduce by the previous Labour Government . I be pleased to get the clarity from the Supreme Court judgment . those of we on the Conservative Benches have always know what a woman be . the right hon . Lady say the Government will ensure that public service be fully compliant with the legislation , which be good . she talk about NHS single - sex ward and the provision for biological female and biological male . can she confirm whether that mean trans woman will be care for on male ward ? the basis for NHS provision , and the basis for single - sex service of all kind , will be on the basis of biological sex . may I first welcome and thank the Minister for the measured way she deliver the statement , but also for her robust work on this issue ? last week ' s landmark Supreme Court judgment provide not only clarity , but some long - overdue common sense . for too long , the issue have at time be toxic and have cause a great deal of harm to both woman and tran people . will she confirm that her Department be liaise with the ehrc to seek assurance that it will not only work at pace , but set some clear timeline on update the statutory guidance ? will she also ensure that any guidance that be now unlawful be withdraw ? I can give my hon . friend the assurance that we will work as quickly as possible with the ehrc in this important area . I also think she be right to highlight the importance of good temper when it come to different view on this topic , recognise that people have have strongly hold view over a number of year and respect one another , and , where we disagree , we do not descend into hate - fill rhetoric or involve ourselves in unfortunate and deeply regrettable protest , some of which have involve the defacement of statue . now be the opportunity , arise from the Supreme Court judgment , to draw a line under this and ensure that the right guidance be in place and that there be clarity for all . I appreciate the Minister ' s word about reduce the temperature . an awful lot of people be hurt a huge amount this week as a result of the announcement . I appreciate the commitment to reduce the temperature and hope that everybody will sign up to that . the SNP welcome the clarity offer on the definition in the Equality Act , note the judgment ' s point of interaction between the 2010 Act and the Gender Recognition Act 2004 , and note the commitment of the Minister and the ehrc to deliver as quickly as possible the guidance on the new code of practice . I would like to ask she if and when she will be reply to the letter , send by the Scottish Government , seek an early meeting with the UK Government . I urge she to undertake that meeting as soon as possible , please . I would of course be happy to engage with colleague from the Scottish Government . I will respond to that letter as quickly as I can . I be very conscious that I represent many tran , intersex and non - binary constituent , and that the representation make to I in my office over the past few day have have a very clear message that they be feel particularly victimise and quite scared for their own safety . some be trans woman and some be trans man , who seem to be very much lose from this debate . the one thing that really unite they be that they be worried about their day - to - day safety , so can I ask the Minister to provide some assurance to trans people right across the country that the Equality Act be still there and can protect they from discrimination and harassment ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . they retain protection from discrimination and harassment . I can say very clearly to this House that trans people should not be victim of discrimination or harassment . they deserve dignity and respect . that be why it be important that we also ensure that trans people have access to high - quality healthcare service and that we clamp down on hate crime , include those target at LGBT people . I welcome the Supreme Court ' s rule and congratulate for Women Scotland and other who have campaign tirelessly on this issue despite the abuse , threat and attempt to silence they . will the Minister please confirm what discussion the Prime Minister or anyone on the Labour Front Bench at the time have with Anas Sarwar , the scottish Labour leader , when he whip his msp to vote in favour of the SNP ' s Gender Recognition Reform ( Scotland ) Bill ? do those on the Labour Front Bench now regret some of their previous decision , when they side against woman across the country who be voice their very real concern ? where I can agree with the hon . Lady be that no one should face threat , intimidation or harassment for express their view — that be an important principle of freedom of speech in our country , but it should not cross a line . on the approach we take in Scotland , the leader of the Scottish Labour party have indicate that he welcome and support the Supreme Court judgment . I do not know whether anyone else in the House have butch lesbian friend and have be with they when they have be tell to get out of woman ' s toilet , but I have — it be not pleasant ; it be not nice . the people who be use this as a political football again should be ashamed of themselves . People do not understand : they be say that trans woman have to use man ' s toilet and , as my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) say , trans man then have to use woman ' s toilet , but how will they stop they ? will they ask to see their genitalia ? it make no sense . be my right hon . friend aware that service provider for refuge , which provide a vital service for woman in desperate need and often use their discretion , be now fearful that they will no long be able to use their discretion when provide those service ? the Supreme Court judgment set out that single - sex space be provide on the basis of biological sex . I do recognise the concern that my hon . friend raise — lesbian should not be treat in a discriminatory way , and we must ensure that there be toilet and facility available for everyone in our country . additional clarity on the area she have identify will be provide through the guidance the ehrc will set out . in some way , the big question today be why it take a Supreme Court decision to confirm this position in the Equality Act . I have hear from so many woman who be consider stand as candidate but be reluctant to do so because of the toxicity in public life , and I think this debate be probably one of the most toxic in term of misogyny . I be lucky : I be a man , and I have not experience it to the same extent — nowhere near what woman have experience . will the Minister take this moment to stand up for all woman who have campaign on this issue , reject the abuse and hostility that have be put towards they , restate the importance of their dignity and of respect , and thank for Women Scotland for the work it have do in take this forward ? I do recognise the hon . Gentleman ' s good intention in ask that question , but I would say to he that , like many woman in this House , I have experience that too . we know what it be like as woman to face that kind of abuse . we must recognise that there can be no place for such abuse in public life and that we have a responsibility to change that culture and climate and to encourage woman to come forward and stand for elect office . since I have be in this House , I have feel the force of the lobby that have make people and mps across this House stand there and say that trans woman be woman . last week the Supreme Court say that sex in the Equality Act be actually biological sex , and I welcome that . what be the Minister go to do to deal with the type of damage that Mermaids and Stonewall cause to a generation , during 14 year of a Tory Government ? what step will she take to rectify the damage that they have do to a generation of trans and gender - question child ? I recognise my hon . friend ' s long - stand interest and campaigning in this area . she be right that the Supreme Court judgment provide clarity on biological sex . when it come to support for gender - question child , when we be talk about child and young people , this have to be about their wellbeing . we be often talk about young people who be very vulnerable and experience real difficulty in their life . the Hilary Cass review make it clear that young people in that situation need support and protection . that be why we will also publish revise gender - question guidance for our school this year to provide that necessary further clarity . first , I would like to ask the Minister how we be all go to be ask to prove our birth sex . as the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) say , this be not just about people who be transgend , non - binary and intersex ; it be also about people who do not conform to gender stereotype . one of my constituent have tell I : " it seem I be to be ghettoise into trans space " , while another say that " this ruling send a message that trans people do not belong … however much we contribute " . what do the Minister suggest I say to those constituent , and will she join I and the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) in meet Dorset ' s Space Youth Project for LGBT young people when it visit Parliament next week ? I would say to the hon . Lady ' s constituent and to trans people across the country that the ruling be clear that while single - sex space be on the basis of biological sex , trans people retain protection from discrimination and harassment in law , and that the Government will always ensure that trans people have the dignity and respect they deserve . research show that half of trans people already fear use public toilet , so I be deeply concerned about the impact of comment by the Minister and the Prime Minister ' s spokesperson that trans people should use a toilet that many of they would not feel comfortable or safe in . can I ask : how would trans people ' s exclusion from the toilet they have long use be a proportionate mean of achieve a legitimate aim , as the Supreme Court judgment and Equality Act dictate ? would the Minister like to clarify that there be , in fact , nothing in law that require tran woman to use man ' s toilet , trans man to use woman ' s toilet , or non - binary people to use a toilet correspond with the sex they be assign at birth ? the Supreme Court ' s judgment be clear on biological sex , but I do understand and recognise the need to ensure that there be provision in place for everyone in our society , include toilet facility . that be why many business and service provider provide unisex facility , while many service provider will also put in place enclose bathroom that do not require people to make that decision to ensure that their dignity and privacy be respect . that be important for all people in our country . I have a practical question : do the ruling apply retrospectively ? if , for example , someone be to have lose their job for their view or win a title in sport , would it apply retrospectively — yes or no ? I think the hon . Gentleman be refer to employment law case , on which I would have to defer to legal colleague . the judgment set out that the Equality Act 2010 be the basis for single - sex space be determined on the basis of biology . the Court determine that that be always the case and have always be the case since 2010 — it be his party that fail to provide that clarity over 14 year . the unanimous Supreme Court judgment have provide clarity over the application of the Equality Act 2010 . it be incredibly important that hard - earn woman ' s right and single - sex space be protect , while also protect our trans community , who continue to face considerable discrimination ; there need to be a solution whereby they , too , be treat with dignity . do my right hon . friend agree that this entire issue need to be handle with a great deal of sensitivity and sensibility , rather than be treat as a political football or a culture war issue ? I agree that the Supreme Court judgment provide much - need clarity and certainty , include for service provider . I also agree that we need to ensure that this matter be handle with sensitivity ; in particular , we have have a number of exchange in this House where we have talk about child who might be gender - questioning and might be experience significant issue affect their wellbeing . I want to make sure that right across society , woman have the access to single - sex space that they need and deserve and , as my hon . friend have say , they have long campaign for . I also want to ensure that trans people receive the appropriate support , include healthcare , and do not face discrimination or harassment on the basis of who they be . while the Supreme Court ruling bring clarity to some , it bring undeniable fear and uncertainty to other . the Minister ' s statement today still leave vulnerable tran people lose in a maze of complex equality law . she talk about dignity and respect . let we look at our prison system , which be just one setting for which her government be responsible . it be dangerously dysfunctional . what safeguard will now be strengthen so that no trans person be place in great danger as a direct result of this ruling ? I be afraid that I disagree with the right hon . Lady that the ruling be complex . it be straightforward and very clear , and have provide clarity that have be sadly lack for many year . of course it be important that vulnerable prisoner receive the support they need , but single - sex space be determined , as the Supreme Court have rule , on the basis of biological sex . where there be vulnerable prisoner , different situation may need to be put in place , separate from that arrangement . I be quite frankly astounded that the Leader of the Opposition seek to portray herself as a champion of woman ' s right when she have refuse to recognise the reality of discrimination and harassment of woman , and have strip the funding from so many of the service that protect woman . I pay tribute to the many member of this Chamber who have work publicly and privately to protect single - sex space and the right and dignity of tran people . the judgment clarify that single - sex space do not have to offer service to tran woman , but can my right hon . friend the Minister say whether they be oblige to refuse service to they ? space that operate on a single - sex basis must do so on the basis of biological sex , but of course provider can offer inclusive service , should they choose to do so , so long as they be clear about who they be offer their service to . I agree with my hon . friend that the last Government have a shameful record on the prosecution of rape and of domestic violence ; at that time in this country , rape be all but decriminalised . I be sure the Minister will recognise that there be many woman , include former supporter of her own party , who vote for candidate like I entirely because of our record of support biological woman . however , in the meantime , give that a number of trade union claim that they will ignore the ruling of the Supreme Court , and in some case even campaign against it , what plan do the Government have to ensure that all trade union be make to recognise that the Supreme Court ruling apply to they too ? I do not know where the hon . Lady have be since July , but her party suffer a devastating general election defeat . that be why she be sit over there on the Opposition Benches rather than here on the Government Benches . many of my tran , intersex and non - binary resident in Exeter and their relative have be in touch with I to express their concern and fear after the decision last week . I know that my right hon . friend mention this in her opening statement , but will she recommit to our ambitious agenda to advance the dignity and respect of trans people over the course of this Parliament ? I understand my hon . friend ' s concern . what I would say to his constituent and to trans people across our country be that we be work with the Home Office to deliver our commitment to equalise all exist strand of hate crime to make they aggravate offence . we will also bring forward a draft conversion practice Bill , in line with the King ' s Speech and our manifesto , that will be trans - inclusive . we be clear that that ban must not cover legitimate psychological support , treatment or non - directive counselling , but we be clear that conversion practice be abuse and we will legislate to stop they . many people be feel deeply worried about the Supreme Court judgment and what it mean for their ability to live their life in dignity and in privacy . will the Minister make a commitment to uphold trans people ' s fundamental right , include the right to privacy , give that the Gender Recognition Act 2004 be create in part to do that ? the Supreme Court ruling risk dismantle that by force tran people to out themselves multiple time a day whenever they visit the toilet , include in their workplace , in public building , or , indeed , in hospital . I be sorry , but I disagree with the question that the hon . Lady pose . the ruling from the Supreme Court be clear , set out that while single - sex space be to be deliver on the basis of biological sex , trans people must be free to live their life free of discrimination and harassment and must retain clear protection within law . the Minister will know that there be considerable concern and fear among transgender , intersex and non - binary people across the UK , include in my constituency . will she outline what urgent step the Government be take to reassure my tran and non - binary constituent that it be their right to remain protect under UK law ? what be she do to ensure that the ruling be not misinterpret or misuse to undermine those constituent ' dignity , safety and access to service , and that it do not lead to discrimination on a wide scale , include through wrongly challenging people who be try to go about their life in our community ? the right of trans people be respect and retain follow the Supreme Court judgment . the ruling be very clear about that , and it be important that we emphasise that point here today . alongside that , we will ensure that hate crime be properly record and punish , because trans people and all people in our country deserve to live their life free from discrimination , harassment and hate . patient deserve to be treat not only in single - sex ward , but — especially when they be have intimate examination — by clinician of the gender and sex that they wish . be the Minister as concerned as I be about the General Medical Council carry on with its policy to remove and hide biological sex from the medical register ? what discussion be she have with the GMC and the other medical regulator about this issue ? I agree that it be important that patient have the right to single - sex provision , include around clinical treatment , but the hon . Gentleman might want to have a word with the Leader of the Opposition about the massive increase in the use of mixed - sex ward under his party in government . in Britain today , trans woman be deny safe housing , refuse essential healthcare and leave wait year for gender - affirm treatment . this be not accidental ; it be the result of a climate of hostility against a marginalised community , fuel by people in position of power , include in this very Chamber . let I be clear : trans people be not a debate , a culture war or an ideology ; they be human being , and trans right be human right . will this Government ensure that they do not pander to hate ? will they reverse their damaging roll - back of LGBT + right , include the ban on puberty blocker , and unequivocally defend the Equality Act and the protection that it provide for tran people across the UK ? the hon . Lady ask a number of question . what I can say to she be that trans people , of course , deserve to be treat with dignity and respect , and they retain right to live their life free of discrimination and harassment , as set out in the Supreme Court judgment . she ask about puberty blocker . I be afraid that there will be no change to Government policy in that important area . now that we have confirmation from the Supreme Court of what the definition of a woman be , can the Minister confirm that all public sector and private sector body will apply that definition with immediate effect ? the Equality and Human Rights Commission will set out a statutory code of practice that will provide further clarity . but I would just say to the hon . Gentleman that I will take no lecture from his party about the importance of defend woman ' s right , give that one of his own number who sit on those Benches be convict of and go to prison for assault his former partner . there be some day when I be really proud to be an MP and to witness the level of debate in this Chamber , and there be some day like today — when , quite frankly , the Leader of the opposition be absolutely appalling . she continue to talk over people , to not listen and to laugh at people while they be talk about an issue that be very , very serious . People out there be scared as a result of this judgment . [ interruption . ] could you maybe let I speak ? I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker : will the Leader of the Opposition afford I the politeness of not speak over I ? my question , and I will ask a question — [ interruption . ] order . I do appreciate that feeling be run high in this statement , but I say to the hon . Lady : please do ask your question and put it on the record . the debate we have in this Chamber be listen to by people who be scared . the behaviour of the Leader of the opposition have be to talk over people and laugh at people , and when cis - man violence be mention , there be laughter on the Opposition Benches . that do not reassure woman or tran woman in this country . do the Minister agree ? I agree that these matter be sensitive , and when we discuss they it generate strong feeling . it be , of course , right that we in this House be able to engage in robust discussion , include on issue that may at time be difficult . I accept my hon . friend ' s point : we do need to treat one another with respect and understand the need — follow your own advice then . so much for dignity and respect , eh ? I welcome the clear ruling from the Supreme Court , and I thank the Minister for her statement , but I be really disappointed that there be no mention of school at all in the statement . many school be teach gender ideology as if it be fact and be not provide single - sex facility or single - sex sport team . how will she ensure that school now comply with the ruling and the law as it have always be ? I suggest to the hon . Lady that she review Hansard after this statement . follow the welcome clarity from the Supreme Court that Labour ' s Equality Act have always contain the right to single - sex space for woman as well as protection for tran people , do the Minister agree that the SNP Scottish Health Secretary must urgently get a grip and ensure that the NHS be uphold the law , especially in my area of Fife where it appear that a nurse , Sandie Peggie , be discipline by NHS manager for try to exercise her right to use a single - sex change room ? my hon . friend will understand that I be not in a position to comment on ongoing case , but I can say to she that I agree that the Supreme Court ruling demonstrate that the Equality Act introduce by the last Labour Government be the basis on which single - sex provision base on biological sex should be deliver . the Minister say that the ruling provide clarity , but for the trans constituent I meet and correspond with over the weekend it provide anxiety and fear . last week , a local medium outlet , the Stray Ferret , publish an article document a 60 % increase in trans hate crime in the last decade in North Yorkshire alone . I and many other worry that the rhetoric and language around this issue will only fuel that . can the Minister confirm how the Government will ensure that trans people , who be already disproportionately target , be not marginalise far and that the upcoming ehrc guidance address safety and inclusion as seriously as it do this legal clarity ? the Supreme Court ruling be clear , but the hon . member be right that there can be no place for hate or for people to be target on that basis . it be important that action be take against those who perpetrate hate crime . like many of my colleague today , I be truly exhaust by the cynicism of the culture war around this topic . I hope we can focus on how we make any change work practically . do the Minister agree that all of we in this House should be mindful that human being be affect by every comment we make on this matter , and that how we behave here will inform how the wide public behave , which I hope would be with kindness and compassion ? I agree that everyone in our society should be treat with dignity , compassion and respect . the Supreme Court ruling , while set out its position on biological sex , be also clear that trans people retain important protection in law , include where it apply to discrimination and harassment . I do believe it be important that all of we share that message as we understand the ruling and make sure that it be well understand across our country . the last thing that any of we would want be for tran people to be fearful . I want everyone treat with dignity and respect , as the Supreme Court make clear should be the case . but should woman have to rely on a court ruling , follow by guidance at some point from the ehrc , rather than the clear view of this House ? what would be the Government ' s view of have primary legislation in this area rather than rely on a court ruling ? the Supreme Court ' s ruling be that the Equality Act , which be pass by this House , be the basis for the protection that exist in law on the basis of biological sex . I have have very constructive discussion with constituent on both side of this debate . do the Minister agree that those who seek to promote trans right with sexually aggressive placard or through aggressively threaten woman who disagree with they in the most disgusting way , as we have all see , do tremendous harm to the trans cause and should realise how counterproductive their slogan be to the cause they be attempt to promote ? no one should be target through vile placard contain abuse or hate . I agree with my hon . friend ; he be absolutely right that not only be it wrong , but it be completely counterproductive and do nothing to advance the discussion that those present the placard would wish to be advance . while I understand that people have strong opinion in this area , it be important that any discussion or debate do not take we to hate - fill rhetoric , threat or threat of violence or intimidation . the Minister say that her position on these issue be very clear and have not change at all over the year . she be promise to work at pace now , yet nine month into her time as Education Secretary the guidance on gender - question child that be consult on over a year ago have still not be publish . will she help school by answer this question : can it ever be right for a school to socially transition a child without talk to the parent first ? we will set out guidance this year for gender - question child . it be important , because — [ interruption . ] I will answer the question . I will answer it directly if the Opposition Front Bench would just allow I a moment . we will publish the guidance later this year . I recognise the importance of provide clarity to school leader . we inherit a draft version , and it be important that we look at it and engage with stakeholder follow the final Cass review . but yes , I do agree that it be important that parent be involve in important decision about their child ' s life . alongside that , potential safeguarding consideration will always need to be take into account . that be why we be look at these area very carefully to make sure that we get it right and we provide the clarity that school leader be quite rightly ask for . the Minister be absolutely right that we need to conduct this debate with respect and compassion , because ultimately this be about people ' s life and their right . that be why there be such concern in the trans community at the moment , include in my Brighton Kemptown constituency , which have the large trans community in the country . can she confirm two thing for I ? first , how will she ensure that trans people have faith that their exist legal protection will be uphold and not row back on ? secondly , how will the Government ensure that trans voice be hear as public body roll out their response to the ruling ? on the two area that my hon . friend ask about , trans people absolutely retain important protection in law , and the ruling of the Supreme Court put that beyond doubt . to the question about ensure that trans voice be hear , it will be important that the ehrc engage with a range of voice as part of its consultation in develop the code of practice that will be require to provide further clarity . I be confident that that will happen . give that article 2 of the Windsor framework ridiculously require Northern Ireland to be in dynamic alignment with EU equality directive , which include embrace self - identification , what step will the Government take to ensure that this common - sense ruling of the Supreme Court be apply consistently and without adulteration across the whole United Kingdom now and always ? I will review the hon . and learn Gentleman ' s question and write to he with a full response . the Supreme Court ask that politician not weaponise their interpretation of law set down by Parliament — it be almost like it have anticipate the Leader of the Opposition . the public be watch , and wherever they stand on this debate , they be not see a potential Prime Minister in the Leader of the Opposition . because trans people be worried and scared , it be important to give reassurance . the Supreme Court clearly say that trans people remain protect under the Equality Act , regardless of whether they have a gender recognition certificate . the Supreme Court say that it could not rule on the definition of a woman beyond its use in the Equality Act . my constituent who be tran and their ally be deeply scared . will the Minister stand at the Dispatch Box and repeat her support for tran people in my constituency and around our country ? I repeat the invitation mention by my friend the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) . at my invitation , young trans people from Bournemouth and Dorset be come to this place to know that this be their Parliament , that they have a place here , and that they will be listen to , respected and have dignity . will my right hon . friend or another Minister come and meet they ? if my hon . friend can provide I with additional detail about his request , I will review that . I agree with he about the importance of reassurance that trans people should be free to live their life with compassion , dignity and respect . the ruling of the Supreme Court make it clear that they retain legal protection ; it be important that we all convey that . I thank the Minister for her statement and her emphasis on the need for sensitivity and indeed good temper in deal with this topic . in that spirit , may I ask she to salute the courage of J . k . Rowling , Sharron Davies and indeed the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) ? over many decade , fantastic woman have campaign for the protection and creation of single - sex space , have fight against violence against woman and girl , and have lead some brilliant campaign . I pay tribute to all those woman — many of they be unsung hero whose name we will never hear anywhere and will never be mention in the Chamber — for their fantastic campaigning effort . it be only because of the amazing work of feminist from the 1970 onwards that we have rape crisis centre and woman ' s refuge . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and put on record my thank to for Women Scotland for its tireless work over a number of year . it be the public face of many woman who have experience discrimination , abuse and personal loss for make the argument that the Supreme Court make last Wednesday . the Supreme Court hold up the right of lesbian to be able to associate with same - sex attract woman . what step be my right hon . friend take to ensure that lesbian and gay man can associate without face challenge ? the Supreme Court ruling make that clear and provide the clarity that many , include lesbian and gay man , have be ask for . the ehrc statutory code of practice will provide further clarity . but I agree with my hon . friend that no one should have face abuse , intimidation or harassment for express their legitimately hold opinion . while the Scottish National party may see this as a judgment make by judicial bigot , most people will see it as a decision of common sense and will wonder why the court have to decide what be a man and what be a woman . but give the intolerant , threaten and violent response from the trans lobby , will the Minister assure we that the judgment will not be undermine by the guidance she issue to the House and that vulnerable people , sport team , hospital patient , teacher and child will be protect and not adversely affect as they have be in the past ? will she also assure we that it will be raise at the high level of Government that Northern Ireland must be include in these protection ? the Supreme Court judgment be clear , and it be welcome and necessary , but it also set out that the basis for protection for single - sex space be root in the Equality Act . those provision be always there , but now we have the clarity that many have be call for . while I note the right hon . member ' s understandable concern about the behaviour of a minority that cross a line into conduct that be potentially criminal and certainly unacceptable , we do need to tread with just a bit of care not to lump everyone into that category ; I be sure that be not his intention . while there can be no place for intimidation or threat , or threat of violence , people do have the right to express their opinion in line with our long - stand right to freedom of speech . the Equality Act be a vital piece of legislation that be there to protect the essential right of oppress group , include woman and tran people , in a world that be still far too dominate by sexism and bigotry , include transphobia . I use the Equality Act plenty of time to represent people as a lawyer before I come to this place . the House will no doubt discuss the impact of the recent Court judgment again , but as we look online and at some of the medium , can we try to ensure that the debate respect all group , include trans people ? some of the stuff spill out of the right - wing press and online in recent day have be truly awful . that have be raise with I by trans constituent who be just try to get on with their life . the Equality Act be one of the last Labour Government ' s proud achievement in ensure that people be able to live their life free from discrimination , prejudice and harassment . I agree with my hon . friend on recognise that important landmark piece of legislation . when we discuss what can be difficult and sensitive issue for some , we should understand that , as he say , people simply want to get on and live their life free from discrimination , harassment and abuse . in 2022 , as I be sit at Wormley community centre tell for the local election , a woman say to I , " I ' ve just vote conservative because you be the only party that know what a woman be , " so the british people really do care about this . will the Minister be more specific on when she will issue guidance to school about gender - question child ? as I have say on a number of occasion in the House , we will issue that guidance this year . I welcome the clarification and statement from my right hon . friend . the way in which she have deal reasonably with question in the House be testament to her fortitude and ability . a number of group in my constituency have make representation , include Hilary Cooke from Medway Pride and woman ' s advocacy group . there be a worry around some of the element to do with harassment and discrimination — a concern that some might take an opportunity to target the trans community . will she guarantee that Labour ' s Equality Act will stand , and will prevent abuse , harassment and discrimination ? the Equality Act do stand , and it provide clear protection in law for woman and tran people . it be important that woman have access to single - sex space such as woman ' s refuge and rape crisis centre , but it be also important , of course , that trans people have access to high - quality healthcare and appropriate support service — and , in addition , can see the police take action against hate crime . a man be a man and a woman be a woman . anybody watch this at home will think that the lunatic have take over the asylum , which they quite clearly have . I do not need a Supreme Court judgment or rule to tell I that a bloke should not be in a woman ' s change room . I want to ask the Minister a simple question for more clarity : can a woman have a penis ? I tell you what : bloke should not beat up woman . maybe the hon . Member should have a word with his colleague . the Minister will not be surprised to hear that I have have a lot of correspondence on this ruling , and there be great concern among the trans community about what the impact will be . there be also concern among the wide LGBT community that , in this populist age , the ruling may signal a move away from progress on LGBT right . I therefore welcome her statement that there will be guidance . will she ensure that that guidance be widely distribute , and be clear , so that it be understand ? will she also assure the LGBT community and the House that the Government and the Labour party stand four - square behind the advancement of LGBT right , as they have long do , and that we will fight any attempt to row back on the progress of the last 30 year or the gain of the last Labour Government ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the advance make over many decade in ensure that LGBT people be treat with dignity and have the support and ability to participate in public life ; frankly , many year ago , for many people , that be simply not the case . we have make enormous progress in tackle prejudice and discrimination , and this Labour Government will always ensure that whatever someone ' s background , they will have every opportunity to take part in public life and achieve all that they be capable of . the Equality Act , which be one of the proud achievement of the last Labour Government , enshrine in law the right to freedom from discrimination and harassment for woman — and , yes , for tran people , too . may I thank the Minister for her answer and her statement ? this end year of confusion around sex - base protection . be a woman be a matter of biology , not identity , and certainly not paperwork . the judgment be welcome by woman , child and , I believe , many other . do the Minister agree that it be not an eradication of right for any person in this United Kingdom , but an underlining of protection ? what discussion will take place with Cabinet colleague to bring about an end to , for example , poster that use the terminology " birth people " , and to other such phrase be use in the NHS , and to instead ensure a return throughout UK health trust to the court - declare definition of a woman ? today be a good day for woman , a great day for the law , and a wonderful day for people , and for truth . I agree that the ruling of the Supreme Court be clear . that be important . it provide welcome clarity in a range of area . on the issue that the hon . Gentleman identifie , such as access to healthcare treatment , it be for good reason that we make sure that there be sex - base service available for woman , such as those who be breastfeed , go through pregnancy and much more besides . alongside that , we also need to make sure that healthcare be available and accessible to all . we have make so much progress as a society in break down sexist stereotyping . the stereotype that say woman have set role and should look and act in a certain way be be break down , expose as the fake construct they really be . sex be the only factor that distinguish man from woman . beyond that , we should be able to live without conform to those stereotype . then a movement come along that argue that all those feminine , girly thing and those sexist stereotype we have be fight to break down be , in fact , the thing that make a woman , and not sex . that be regressive , backward and nonsensical . will the Minister join I in salute those courageous woman who stand up and point out the absurdity of that argument , and commit to root out that ideology from our public institution ? over many decade , feminist campaigner , from the ' 70 onwards , work incredibly hard to ensure that woman be able to divorce , that when that happen they be able to see their child , that they get protection at work , that they do not face discrimination , that they could access woman ' s refuge and rape crisis centre , and that rape be finally , back in the early ' 90 , ban in marriage . I pay tribute to the amazing feminist campaigner and woman over many decade who have bring we to a much strong position , and to the brilliant trailblazer from across political party who have ensure that we have far more woman represent in this place than ever before . I want to thank the Minister for these remark in her statement : " dignity and respect for all — those be the value that lift we up and set we free . those be the value that define and distinguish any modern and compassionate society . " will she just reiterate one more time that when this Government talk about increase the support for equality for all , that really do mean all ? my hon . friend be right . this be about dignity and compassion for all , and that be an important message that I think we should all take out from this House . for the final question , I call David Smith . I thank the Minister for her clear and positive response to the Supreme Court ' s ruling . like she , before I be elect to this place , I run a north - east - base homelessness charity for eight year . I have to say , contrary to what we have hear in some of the debate in the last few day and even in this place today , it be almost always possible to find a solution that allow we to support people on a single - sex basis and those who identify as transgender . in the last eight year of run that charity , I be not help by the total lack of clarity from the Conservative Government . do the Minister agree that it be important to reaffirm that in the Equality Act , trans people remain protect from discrimination under the protect characteristic of gender reassignment , and that the Supreme Court ruling be focus on clarify protection , base on the protect characteristic of sex , that have always exist in the Equality Act ? my hon . friend be right in his assessment , and I pay tribute to he for his work over many year to support homeless people , include young people , across the north - east . I agree that it have always be possible to ensure that single - sex space be deliver on the basis of biological sex under the Equality Act , but I be glad that provider can now be absolutely confident and crystal clear about that . one additional observation be that the right we be talk about be hard fight and hard won , and there be significant push - back over many period . my hon . friend will doubtless have have the same experience as I do : commissioner suggest that mixed - sex accommodation be appropriate when , in many case , we be talk about vulnerable young woman who have be expose to sexual violence , include sexual abuse in the home , and what they want and need be single - sex accommodation . it be important that we ensure that appropriate service be available for anyone who need they . that mean that , on occasion , trans people will also require separate provision , so that their need — their healthcare need , their support need , and their need in case where they may face abuse and intimidation — can be properly meet . British Steel with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish to make a statement on the step the Government have take since the Steel Industry ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 come into force . the Government take the decision to recall Parliament on 12 April so that we could take swift , significant action on British Steel . as hon . member will be aware , that be the first time Parliament have sit on a Saturday in over 40 year . our attendance in this place be testament to the urgency and importance of the issue at hand , which be the need to prevent the immediate closure of the blast furnace at Scunthorpe . the action we take on 12 April and the measure we have take since matter greatly for this country , and be of enormous importance to thousand of steelworker and their family . I be very pleased to inform the House that this afternoon , British Steel have cancel the redundancy consultation start by Jingye . I know that many British Steel employee will breathe a sigh of relief at that news . it be regrettable that when this Government take office , we inherit a steel sector in crisis , and an iconic british company face an existential threat . since day one , we have work tirelessly with British Steel and the trade union to find a resolution , because blast furnace closure at Scunthorpe be an outcome that this Government be simply not willing to allow . I want to stress that this kind of state intervention be not something that we intend to replicate in other situation , or for other industry . we recognise that unprecedented action be warrant in a truly unprecedented situation . as hon . member will know , the legislation we introduce , which be pass that weekend , give we the power to direct British Steel ' s board and workforce , ensure they get pay , and order the raw material to keep the blast furnace run . it also permit the Government to do those thing themselves , if the circumstance demand it . we have waste no time in enact those power and take the urgent action require to keep the blast furnace light at Scunthorpe . we have secure the raw material need to keep the blast furnace operate , and we continue to work at pace to secure a steady pipeline of material . official be on site to help British Steel within hour of the Steel Industry ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 become law , and we be already see the real - world impact of our decisive intervention . I be delighted to say that British Steel have also confirm today that it can keep operate both of the UK ' s last remain blast furnace . by contrast , Jingye ' s plan be to shut one of they down early this month . it will come as no surprise to hon . member to hear that the company ' s workforce , their family , supplier and community have express deep gratitude for the action we have take , which have preserve steelmaking at Scunthorpe and safeguard thousand of skilled steel job . now that the immediate emergency have pass , it be right that hon . member also ask question about what be next . we have be clear that in order to secure the long - term future of British Steel , which have not be properly invest in for year , we will need a modernisation programme , ideally with a private sector partner . furthermore , we will need to look beyond any individual company , and ensure a secure and thriving future for the whole steel sector . that be why we be continue our work to publish the steel strategy this spring . all option be on the table as we begin to address the company ' s long - term sustainable future . my official meet Jingye on 16 April . it be a respectful conversation , and that dialogue will continue as we find a way forward in the national interest that safeguard steelmaking and protect job . with that in mind , I also want to say thank you — thank you to those who send we message to say we do the right thing to save British Steel , thank you to everyone who offer practical support and , most importantly , thank you to the worker and manager at British Steel who have hear our call to produce the steel that we need to deliver our plan for change , to keep the Scunthorpe site and everyone work at it safe , and to do so in a way that reduce the scale of financial loss . they have show remarkable resilience and dedication at a supremely difficult time , and have serve the plant , their community and the nation . they have promise we that there be well day ahead for British Steel , and we agree . we be give they the chance they need to write the next chapter of British Steel ' s history . we have assure this House time and again that steel have a bright future under this government , and I restate that today . steel be fundamental to Britain ' s industrial strength and to our identity as a global power , and we will never hesitate to protect it . we have commit to update both Houses as policy develop and a long - term strategy be formulate . I reaffirm that write update will be forthcoming regularly . so let there be no doubt : this week be not the end . it be not the end of the work , and it be not the end of the negotiation , but thank to the action we have take , it be also not the end of British Steel . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement , and I join she in thank the Scunthorpe worker for their effort over the last few week . we be here once again because the Government have no plan — they fail to prepare , they bungle negotiation , and they take too long to listen to the warning . what do we have to show for it ? we have this botched nationalisation and a potential bill for the taxpayer stretch into the billion . I say billion , but it remain entirely unclear how much this bungle 11th - hour decision will cost , while the asset still belong to China . I hope that member across the House will agree that this be a complete mockery of transparency and accountability , and I hope that the relevant Select Committees will take it upon themselves to conduct their own inquiry . instead of a statement from the Treasury today , the Chancellor be run to the International Monetary Fund in Washington to explain how she break the UK economy . steel nationalisation , the IMF downgrading growth forecast , trade union summit in No . 10 — it be all sound a bit 1970s . the simple problem be that we do not know the answer to any of these question because the Government have fail to publish an impact assessment . will the Minister confirm to the House when they plan to do so ? have anyone in government ask the Office for National Statistics whether British Steel will now be classify as a publicly own entity ? have the ministerial team discuss the impact of the takeover with the Chancellor on she already evaporate fiscal headroom ? to date , how much have the Department spend , or how much have it commit to underwrite — that be a straightforward question that deserve an answer ? give that her Department have no budget for revenue support of steel , have the Minister be able to secure additional fund from the Treasury , so that other sector or support for british exporter do not pay the price ? we have see no further detail of the Government ' s propose steel strategy , or any confirmation of long - term plan to protect british steelmaking . Labour Members refuse to back a coke coalmine to produce some of the raw material that blast furnace rely on . instead , they wait for shipment to arrive from halfway around the world . most importantly , the Government have not set out how they intend to reduce the enormous burden of sky - high energy cost . instead , the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero seem dead set on delusional policy that drive energy price in this country even high . we can not make steel sustainably when we have the high energy price in Europe . price for industrial energy in Birmingham in this country be four time high than those in Birmingham Alabama . we can not make steel if we do not have coal . as Nissan ' s Alan Johnson say today , the " simple fact " be that the UK be " too expensive … once you ' ve pay your electricity , gas , nic we be too expensive — any industrial strategy that do not tackle that be a waste of time . " well , we be here once again . there be no steel strategy , no industrial strategy , no export strategy and no energy strategy . perhaps when she reply the Minister can share a single strategy that this Government actually possess . it be get hard and hard to understand quite what the opposition ' s policy be on steel . it be all over the place . on the one hand , they ask we question about cost . they say they have negotiate a modernisation plan with British Steel , but they will not tell we how much money they be willing to throw at that plan . their proposal , apparently , be to build on two site . if Jingye be ask we for £ 1 . 2 billion to build on one site , how much taxpayer ' money be the Government put on the table to fund two ? we need answer to those question . on nationalisation , last week the shadow Secretary of State for Business and Trade , who be , as we know , Financial Secretary to the Treasury when Liz Truss crash the economy , say that he back full nationalisation of British Steel . on the other hand , this morning the Leader of the opposition say on Radio 4 that nationalisation should be the " last resort . " it seem a bit muddle . finally , the hon . Member ask question about the cost of energy pricing , forget of course that industrial energy price double under the Tories . UK Steel , the trade body for the steel industry , be clear and have say that it be " the UK ' s reliance on natural gas power generation " that leave we with high price than our international ally . it be not too much clean energy , but too little . the hon . Member ask a reasonable question about the cost . I hope he will understand that matter at the moment be sensitive and commercially confidential , and I hope he will be assure that we will publish account in due course . we be secure material and review thing such as health and safety , and other critical role . regular meeting be happen between the Departments and British Steel , as he would expect , and of course we will publish those detail in due course . he ask about the coalmine . British Steel have tell we directly that it could not use that coal because of the sulphur content . we also need coke oven to turn coal into coke , and the coke oven at British Steel be close on his watch several year ago . the reality be that the Tories fail the British Steel sector , and this Labour Government be secure it . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I want to thank the Government for save British Steel . our Committee have be clear that it be essential for we to retain the ability to make primary steel in this country , and the step that be take a couple of Saturdays ago have help derisk exactly that . the Government deserve credit for that . however , the Committee have write to the Government to say that a steel strategy need to come forward as quickly as possible . it must be a clear , long - term vision for the industry , and there must be safeguard against the potential of a floodtide of steel from China . we need to use public procurement much more aggressively to support our local industry , energy cost need to come down , and we need a plan to keep scrap onshore . will the Minister tell we when she plan to bring forward that steel strategy ? ultimately , what be good for the steel industry be good for Scunthorpe . my right hon . friend be of course right : the steel strategy be all the more important now than when we devise it in opposition and commit £ 2 . 5 billion for the steel strategy fund in our manifesto . we be look at how we use that financial support , and , as he know , at how we might do primary production . we be investigate future market opportunity and how we can increase demand here in the UK . he speak of procurement , which of course be incredibly important . I have be talk to the procurement Minister and work on that , along with the Steel Council . we need to consider the availability of suitable site for future investment . scrap be important , as my right hon . Friend say — how can we improve UK capability ? trade and overcapacity be a huge issue , and one that we share with our american colleague , which be why we do not believe that the tariff be necessary — we have the same problem and should try to solve they together . carbon leakage , green steel , research and development , job and skill — we will develop a whole package of measure as quickly as we can . we will ensure that the plan , which we will publish in the spring , be one for the whole country and secure steel in the UK . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement , and I associate myself with her gratitude towards Mr Speaker , hon . member , parliamentary staff and , most importantly , the worker and manager of British Steel . it be incredibly welcome news that both blast furnace in Scunthorpe will continue to operate , allow those who be employ at the site , the 35 , 000 - plus family in this country who would have be affect by its closure , and Britain ' s national security , to breathe a momentary sigh of relief . will the Minister join I in thank the British Steel workforce for ensure that the furnace have not be allow to go cold ? it be good to see the Government take action after the Conservatives spend far too long dither over what to do . the Minister have commit to deliver a steel strategy by the end of the spring , so the Government have five week leave to produce it . can she confirm that it will be publish before 31 May , and that Parliament will have the opportunity to debate it ? when we be here a few Saturdays ago , I ask the Secretary of State to confirm that the pension fund of employee and former employee be not in deficit , that all company contribution be up to date , and that asset of the scheme have not be transfer to the hold company or any offshore business . I be wait for confirmation on that . finally , can the Minister guarantee that no redundancy will be make as a result of the action take in the Steel Industry ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 ? I thank the Lib Dem spokesperson for his support for our intervention and for his helpful question . we will publish an impact assessment in due course , include classification consideration . he be right to point out that we do not answer his question last time , and neither be I answer they this time , but I will ensure that I do . we have say that we will come back every four week with a statement , but I will write to he separately to ensure that he have the reassurance that he need . I can not give the hon . Gentleman a date for the steel strategy , but I assure he that we be work as fast as we can . the issue be difficult because we be talk about spend £ 2 . 5 billion of public money . we have to ensure that we do that in the correct way . the roundtable that we have hold , the advice from the Steel Council , and the work that we be have do by the Materials Processing Institute and Hatch to consider the economic issue that we need to grapple with , be really important — we must get that right . of course , when we have a steel strategy , the House must have the opportunity to come and talk about it and be reassure that it be the right thing for the steel industry . last week , I meet trade union representative at Llanwern steelwork . I clearly understand and welcome the action take at Scunthorpe , which stand in complete contrast with the conservative party , which have no steel strategy in 14 year of government . will the Minister be mindful of the promise make by Tata to invest in asset at Llanwern ? we need that to be deliver . plant like Llanwern should get their fair share of the green steel fund and procurement . what progress will we soon see on that ? my hon . friend be right to raise the issue of Tata invest in those asset and the future of the Port Talbot site , which be incredibly important . of course , we meet regularly to talk about that . we have the transition board , which the Secretary of State for Wales convene , along with the Welsh Government . we be work at pace to understand what those future investment could be . she be right to demand that the steel plan be for everywhere rather than just for one part or other of the UK . we want to and will ensure that the nation and region all benefit from the funding and mechanism that we put in place to improve procurement , scrap and all those thing . of course , it be not just Tata in Wales ; Celsa too be incredibly important and a very impressive company . she can be reassure on that front . I be always happy to have more conversation with colleague from Wales about how that can work go forward . it be clearly extremely welcome that the redundancy notice have be withdraw — the steel community will breathe a sigh of relief . the Minister quite rightly speak about what happen next . as well as a national streel strategy , the north Lincolnshire area need a strategy of its own to maintain the local economy . will she commit to an early meeting with mps from the affected area , as well as with Councillor Rob Waltham , who lead North Lincolnshire council and have produce a document highlight the way forward ? that would be extremely helpful . I thank the hon . Gentleman for his continued support for his community . yes , I be very happy to meet the leader of North Lincolnshire council , as I have do previously ; he be an incredibly important part of the jigsaw of what happen in the area . I be always happy to meet mps — I meet my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) and the hon . Gentleman regularly — and will continue to do so to ensure that we work in the interest of the whole area . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) on his tireless advocacy for the steelworker and his Scunthorpe constituent — it should be recognise . how have the Government ' s decision to take control of British Steel be receive by the workforce , customer and supplier ? I agree with my hon . friend ' s comment about the tireless work of our hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe on secure the future of British Steel . the Secretary of State go to the British Steel site in Scunthorpe just after the legislation be pass . I think it be fair to say that there be great relief after our intervention , but worker will also quite rightly be ask we , " what happen next and how will you secure the future of the site ? " we be now completely focused on that . let I ask a question on behalf of my constituent who have sweat blood to keep the blast furnace go . unfortunately , as we know , electric arc technology can not make virgin steel — only blast furnace can do that . be the Government 100 % committed to maintain our permanent ability to make virgin steel ? as the Secretary of State make clear during the debate of Saturday before last , the capacity for primary steelmaking production be important , and the steel strategy will look at exactly how we deliver that . there be new way of deliver primary steel — use hydrogen , for example — that other european country be now use and develop . we will ensure that , whatever the future bring , we have the right level of production in this country . the Government have my full - hearted support for the action they have take with regard to Scunthorpe , which be important for not merely Scunthorpe itself and the worker there but the supply chain as well . in that regard , I want to raise an issue of concern that I hope my hon . friend the Minister will look into . I have have a letter from Ian Walker , who be the chairman of Rotary Engineering , a long - establish , highly regard specialist engineering firm in my constituency . it provide service to British Steel last November , and it be still wait for payment for those service , despite regular correspondence that have be ignore . if Rotary Engineering be have this difficulty with British Steel , many other small and medium - sized enterprise could as well . will my hon . friend look into this as a matter of urgency , find out what British Steel have be do and try to ensure that these important company — important for not merely British Steel but our whole engineering industry — be pay and able to survive ? my hon . friend make a really important point . the supply chain of these big steel production company , whether Tata , British Steel or other , be really important . I do not have an answer for he now , but I will look into the issue he raise about Rotary Engineering and ensure the right thing be be do . I thank the Minister for her statement and the good news about the saving of British Steel . she have not refer to the timetable for move towards nationalisation , which we fully support and encourage the Government to push on with , so that they can accelerate towards the modernisation programme that she refer to . the new - find love of this House for blast furnace should be encourage , and we should be refurbish and invest in they . that be the right thing to do to create a thriving steel industry to support british industry and our defence industry . we know that Reform be a recent convert to steel — some of we have be support the industry for a long time — but the hon . Gentleman make a fair point about what come next . our position remain that the good way forward be to try to find a commercial business to invest alongside Government , but we will do whatever it take to secure the future of steelmaking and protect those job , for national security and for the supply chain . no option be off the table . I hope he will understand that although nationalisation be the most likely option , we would prefer a commercially run business . we be investigate all option . nothing be off the table . we continue have many conversation , and as soon as we have an answer , we will come to this House . we need steel for wind turbine , for the equipment for carbon capture and for the expansion of grid infrastructure . in short , it be an essential part of how we expand our energy security in this country . the Prime Minister tell the Liaison Committee that the grid connection date for Scunthorpe be 2034 . can my hon . friend confirm that , as a crucial element of the modernisation agenda and secure the long - term future of Scunthorpe and steelmaking , which be so important to energy and every other part of our economy , she and her colleague be look at how that grid connection can be bring forward ? I thank the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee for his important question . he make the point that we need steel for green energy — wind turbine , carbon capture and so on — and our energy security . there be an important wide point , which be that since the election , £ 43 . 7 billion have be commit by the private sector to invest in clean energy in this country . those on the Opposition Benches who be question net zero be put at risk thousand of job that we will see deliver through clean energy . we have to be very careful what we wish for , because that investment be incredibly important for our country . the green energy sector be grow 10 % fast than the rest of the economy . these be important thing and important job . my hon . friend make a really sensible point about grid connection . we have not just see this at Scunthorpe ; we have see it with many different company , where grid connection be 15 or even 20 year away make investment completely unviable . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero announce last week how we be reform the grid queue , get rid of zombie project and ensure that we prioritise what be important . we will ensure we be do everything we can to improve that connection at Scunthorpe . I take at face value what the Minister have say today about British Steel have a bright future . however , she do not mention any figure , other than a global figure of £ 2 . 5 billion float around somewhere . will she tell the House when she expect to publish the accounting officer assessment that be require when public money be commit ? we can then test in the Public Accounts Committee whether those rule for spend public money be be adhere to , particularly in term of feasibility . the hon . Gentleman make a really good point : we be spend public money , and we need to be incredibly careful in the way we do that . of course , what we spend will be account for in the Department for Business and Trade annual account , as the insolvency cost be when we be in this position in 2019 . we will update the House and bring forward whatever we can on those figure . he be right to raise that . I want to reassure he that the £ 2 . 5 billion be not float around ; it be a commitment in the labour manifesto , and it be budget for . how we might spend that money be what we be try to devise through the plan for steel , which will rightly have a lot of scrutiny from this House , the Public Accounts Committee and other . I wholeheartedly congratulate my hon . friend on her sterling work and very much welcome her statement . no doubt she will remember that on 11 April , the Leader of the Opposition say that in government she have negotiate a steel modernisation plan . the next day , when the Government bring in emergency legislation to save Scunthorpe , she say she be still negotiate a deal when her boss call the snap general election . there be never any agreement for an electric arc furnace on Teesside , as she claim , as much as I and my colleague support the concept . will the Minister confirm that it be the conservative party that preside over the end of virgin steelmaking in Redcar and Port Talbot , and that it would have do the same at Scunthorpe be it not for the Labour Government ? will she also confirm that if the private sector will not sufficiently invest , the Government will maintain British Steel through public ownership and use their public procurement strategy to make the company sufficiently profitable ? my hon . friend be completely correct . indeed , the Leader of the opposition confirm on the " Today " programme this morning that the conservative party policy be for an electric arc furnace at Scunthorpe or Scunthorpe and Teesside — it be unclear — which would have cost nearly twice as much as the exist proposal , without any mention of primary steelmaking . I understand that the official Opposition ' s position be that they be not in favour of retain primary steelmaking capacity in the UK . in her statement , the Minister celebrate the fact that this be not the end of British Steel , and we all welcome that , but labour ' s policy very well could be the end of domestic oil and gas , whether it be the extended windfall tax , remove investment allowance or no new oil and gas licence . we be walk towards the end of our domestic oil and gas sector , which have prove so beneficial to we across Scotland and the UK , all the while offshore our emission and rely on , at good , unreliable and , at bad , hostile state such as China to supply our renewable energy infrastructure . take the example of British Steel , be it not time to reverse labour ' s headlong rush towards end oil and gas in the North sea and to rely on our domestic supply for as long as we can , to help our energy security into the future ? it would be helpful to understand the Opposition ' s official position when it come to China . China be the world ' s second large economy and our fourth large trading partner . hundred of thousand of job in this country rely on our relationship and our trade with China . we on the Government Benches believe in free and open trade , and we will continue on that basis . the hon . Lady suggest that that be not the conservative party ' s official opinion ; it would be useful to understand that . some 70 , 000 job have be lose in North sea oil and gas since the Conservatives be in power , because it be a decline basin and it be get hard to drill for oil and gas — we know that . the transition be happen ; the issue be how we support that . this government be put in place a huge amount of support to try to ensure that those very skilled worker can transition into the green energy sector . I repeat this statistic : £ 43 . 7 billion of private sector investment in clean energy have be promise since this government come to power . be it really the Conservatives ' opinion that we should throw away all that investment and not protect all those job for the future ? I thank the Minister for her statement and for her swift action . the people of Scunthorpe will be grateful , but as my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) note , that stand in contrast to the way in which the people of Redcar and other area be so cruelly abandon by the last government . the steel industry be not the production of steel alone ; it also include the supply chain . the Davy Roll Company , now Union Electric Steel , in my constituency , at the heart of Gateshead , perform a vital role as the last cast steel roll maker in the UK . the Minister have meet representative from the company , so will she update I on the work that she be do to protect not only the steel industry where steel be make , but the wide supply chain ? I have meet representative from Union Electric Steel — everyone still call it Davy Roll . the supply chain be incredibly important , and we be look at it in our plan for steel . however , the investment make across Government more broadly over the year show that that supply chain , in whichever area of manufacturing it be find , have not be protect . the Ministry of Defence be keen to secure the supply chain in the UK for the investment that we be put into defence , whether in aerospace , advanced manufacturing or space . we need to build supply chain capacity here in the UK because the world have change and we have different priority now , and my hon . friend be right to raise that . there be consensus across this House that produce steel in the UK be completely necessary — that be undeniable . however , to produce steel we need coke coal . the US have give we a supply line for the next couple of week to keep our blast furnace alive , and I know that the Minister be speak to Australia and Sweden as well , but we need the ability to produce coke coal , so will the Minister please breathe fire into produce coking coal here in the UK ? I think the hon . Gentleman be refer to the situation at Whitehaven . as I have already say , British Streel tell we directly that it could not use that coal because of the sulphur content and working coke oven be need to — that be not true . the hon . Gentleman say that be not true , but he need to provide evidence of that , because that be what British Steel have tell we , and it do not have coke oven because they be close under the previous Government . Madam Deputy Speaker , you know that I be a proud steel MP , so it have pain I to watch my business wither on the vine under the last Government . I be incredibly grateful to the Minister for act so decisively to save British Steel , but in the steel strategy , can she commit to look at the underlie problem affect Liberty Steel , a speciality green steel producer , include high energy price , business rate and other country , particularly China , dump their dirty , inefficient steel in our market ? my hon . friend make important point and that be exactly what we be look at in the steel strategy . on dump steel , have be request to examine the issue by British Steel , the Trade Remedies Authority have agree to look at steel safeguard and ensure that they be fit for purpose in the here and now . we be also look at what happen beyond 2026 , when the steel safeguard stop , to ensure that sufficient safeguard be in place . all the issue she mention need to be look at , include electricity price and energy price , which double under the last Conservative Government . as we have say before , 53 % of global steel production come from China . we need to look at that imbalance , at how we can ensure cheap steel do not come into this country and at how carbon leakage be work . we be work hard on all those issue . if the Government now believe that primary steelmaking capacity be critical for the security of the UK , do they also recognise that the skilled worker need to produce that steel be equally as important ? if so , why be they willing to let 2 , 800 of they be make unemployed last September in Port Talbot ? I hope the hon . Gentleman understand that the intervention that we make in this case be different for a number of reason . when we be in Opposition , we work with Tata to try to get it to change its plan , but we be unsuccessful . when we come into Government , we improve the deal that the previous Government have negotiate and we improve the redundancy offer . we get Tata to commit to invest in asset and free up land for other thing , and we get it to provide a package of measure to improve that situation . the hon . Gentleman be right that that package mean the closure of the blast furnace and the building of an electric arc furnace , with the closure happen before the electric arc furnace arrive , and because of the way that electric arc furnace work , they be more efficient and need few people . we have be work really hard through the transformation board , lead by the Secretary of State for Wales and the Welsh Government , to ensure that everybody have a significant package of support to try to ensure they transition to other job . that work be ongoing and progress well , and we will continue to focus on it . the two situation be fundamentally different . in Scunthorpe , British Steel be in the middle of a consultation on potential redundancy , and it fail to secure the material to keep the blast furnace go , which would have completely break what British Steel should have be do during that consultation . we could not allow that to happen , those blast furnace to close and thousand of people to be suddenly make redundant , which be why we intervene in the way we do . I thank my hon . friend for her statement and for her action on British Steel . I extend my thank to the official in her Department , who I know have work tirelessly in support of our Ministers to secure a future for the business . the Government ' s plan for change have change the life of steelworker in Scunthorpe and Teesside . People I work with , and their family , will feel a sense of relief — I feel a sense of relief . ultimately , it be the customer of British Steel who will pay the wage of those worker in the future . in one of the future update that the Minister have promise , can we cover the product and market development for British Steel , and how British Steel can well penetrate the UK market and increase its market share for domestic production ? I thank my hon . friend for his work and for the support that he have provide to I , official and other because of his expertise in this space . he be right to thank staff ; they have work unbelievably hard , and I be very grateful for what they have do . he be also right to talk about how we ensure that the product market develop in the way that we want it to . we be look at how we increase demand in the UK , as well as at procurement and other issue , so that we be not just try to save our exist provision , but to expand our provision so that the steel industry can start to grow , instead of halve as it have do over the past 10 year under the Tories . despite recent comment by a Scotland Office Minister , may I make it crystal clear that it be not " manufacturing grievance " to suggest that Grangemouth , like Scunthorpe , should be nationalise to protect a critical economic and security asset that have be run down by foreign owner ? what we have see from the UK Government in the last week , include today , be that when push come to shove , they can take bold action in crisis , as they have do in Scunthorpe . therefore , be it not the case that if the UK Government fail to act in a similar fashion at Grangemouth , highly skilled job will be lose , Scotland ' s only capacity to refine oil will be shut down and critical energy security will be far diminish ? we deeply regret the choice that INEOS have make . as the hon . Gentleman know , Grangemouth do not provide the only refining capacity in the UK , but he be right to say it be the only provision in Scotland , which be why we intervene with a package of support and a £ 200 million commitment from the national wealth fund for what happen to the site . the hon . Gentleman be right to stand up for people in Grangemouth over the issue that they be face , and we be do all we can . as I say in my statement , the position in Scunthorpe be unique and particular , but that do not mean that we do not care just as much about the people in Grangemouth and that we will not ensure that we do everything that we can to pursue to the future development of that site in a way that support job . I add my thank to the Minister and her colleague for their sterling work in recent week . it be true to say that Labour be save steel . some 68 % of the steel this country need be import . that be a disgraceful legacy from the last Conservative Government , but it present an opportunity for this Labour Government . do the Minister agree that the next step we need to take be to mount robust trade protection , include bring the carbon border adjustment mechanism forward to 2026 and make it mandatory for public procurement to use british steel , so that as we rebuild this country , we do it with british steel make by british worker ? my hon . friend be right to say that we produce only about 30 % of the steel we use in this country , and we must be much more ambitious about increase that figure . he be also right to raise question about carbon leakage and safeguard . the cbam be be introduce in 2027 . we be work through what happen in the interim period , how it work and how it interact with the european CBAM — some change be be make to what will be implement . this work be obviously be lead by the Treasury , but we be work really closely with the Treasury to ensure that the CBAM work in a way that protect the steel industry . on the day that Parliament be recall , I gather that the worker themselves have to confront chinese executive who be intent on come on to the site . they believe that those executive intend to take unilateral action to shut down the blast furnace irrecoverably . be that correct ? what do that tell we about the motivation and behaviour of China when it get its hand on our strategic industry ? I need to be clear on this point , because I know that there have be lot of speculation . we be not aware of any deliberate act of sabotage . there be an issue with people come on site who do not gain access . no Jingye official be on site at the moment . we be talk to Jingye in a respectful way about what happen next . that say , it be the case that we have be negotiate in good faith , and we feel that that good faith have end in the way in which Jingye be not secure the raw material that we be really clear it need to secure , so there be a breakdown there . the position on Jingye be a position about it as a company ; it be not a position about our wide view of China . because we have hundred of thousand of job that be dependent on trade with China and because it be our fourth - large trading partner , our position remain that we need to be mindful of that , but we also need to be mindful of security , and we always will be . there will always be a very specific and deliberate account of the security implication of any investor in the UK . we can not make british steel without british ceramic . high temperature - resistant refractory ceramic be need to line the blast furnace to keep they alight , but the Minister be acutely aware that the ceramics sector in this country , much like the glass and chemical sector , be be cripple by energy price , because of both wholesale cost and policy cost , which the last Government choose to put on and which be continue by this Government . when the Minister talk about back british industry and manufacturing , can she say when glass , ceramic and other foundational industry will get the support they need to prop up and support the advanced manufacturing that we be all so proud of ? the cost of that will be a tiny proportion of what have be commit to British Steel . my hon . friend be quite right to raise ceramic and their importance in blast furnace . we have all become steel expert through the many podcast that everybody have be listen to over recent week . one of the issue with shut down blast furnace immediately without proper provision be not just that the metal harden , but that the ceramic crack and fracture . that be the risk with Jingye refuse to bring in those raw material . my hon . friend know that the ceramics industry be very important to the Secretary of State and to myself , and the wide foundational industry be very important too . he be right to raise issue that we have talk about many time in term of energy price . the Government be work at pace to try to alleviate that problem and many other that he have raise , whether cheap import or other issue . the Government have do the right thing , because steel be strategically important and the job be locally important . the Minister have ask what be next . I suspect that the House will come back to this issue , maybe very shortly , because over the last decade , we have see energy - intensive industry flee the United Kingdom . Aluminium be go , we have hardly any oil refinery , and we have one steel plant leave . the reason for that be the mad net zero policy , which the Minister have try to defend today . Decarbonisation have increase our energy cost , so that they be three time high than in the US and eight time high than in China . we do not have any local supply of raw material ; we bring they halfway round the world . carbon taxis add to the cost for business . do the Minister accept that the economic reality be that we pour public money in at one end , and see it go down the net zero drain at the other ? I just do not agree with the right hon . Gentleman ' s position on this issue . he be right to say that we have see the offshoring of manufacturing over a period of year . we have not entirely lose the aluminium sector — there be one smelter leave , but that be all . indeed , I meet representative of the aluminium sector regularly , because it have have 25 % tariff put on it , just as the steel industry have . the trade body , UK Steel , be really clear that the UK ' s reliance on natural gas power generation leave we with high price . the steel sector do not pay the green levy because of reduction that it be give . it be not net zero cause this problem ; the challenge be how we get the clean energy that we need to stop our reliance on the overseas oil and gas market . he be right to say that we have see offshore , and we be work to stop that . do the Minister , in contrast with the last speaker , agree that the future of this country be in clean power , safely produce from our own natural resource , such as float offshore wind in the Celtic sea , and ultimately in our infrastructure be build out of green british steel , not steel import from China ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we be talk early today about the importance of float offshore wind in the Celtic sea , and the huge possibility that bring the UK for energy security and good job . far to the answer that the Minister give to my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , will she at least concede that it would be opportune to conduct an audit of our critical national industry , to ensure that if there be issue around foreign ownership , or ownership by malign state entity , we know where they be and have a plan to deal with they ? the right hon . Gentleman be right . we need an audit of our critical national industry , and we be do that through our industrial strategy , so that , particularly in the eight growth - drive sector that we have identify , we have policy to ensure that company in the UK can continue to thrive . we believe in free and open trade , and we be not move away from that ; the Chancellor be make that case this week with our american colleague . security be incredibly important . the right hon . Gentleman will know that we be ensure that where security be an issue , we take appropriate action , but that do not mean that we will stop trade with the second large economy in the world . I put on record how proud I be to be sit on the Benches of the Government who be finally take action to save the steel industry in this country . in my constituency , ten of thousand of people have steel engineering and manufacturing run through their blood . we be proud of that history , and we really want to contribute to a green , clean industrial future . when minister have big discussion about investment , and meet great business that want a place in which to invest , I ask they to consider Darlington and the Tees valley — a fruitful land full of people who know the value of hard graft . Darlington and the Tees valley be excellent place in which to invest , so I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . in many part of our country , steel be in the bone of our community , but of course , this be not about look back — it be about look forward . in the future , we will need steel for not just clean energy , but for build the 1 . 5 million home that we want to build , for Heathrow expansion and for our railway . we will need it across a whole range of sector , and we know that demand be increase , not reduce . the Minister talk about work at pace . if she want to see what pace look like , she might consider the Business and Trade Committee ' s report on steel , which be turn around in rapid time — much fast than the snail ' s pace review of steel , which have yet to emerge . will it do so in the spring , or the summer ? no one be quite sure . when that review finally emerge , will it address the elephant in the room , which be the ridiculous energy cost in this country ? they have be drive up in part by gas , but also by carbon taxis , and by the renewable subsidy lay on by this Government . the ridiculous energy cost that the hon . Gentleman refer to be a result of 14 year of Conservative Government — we need to be really clear about that . his point about the steel strategy , which have already be make , be reasonable . of course , member be really keen for we to bring that strategy forward as soon as possible , but I repeat what I have say : we be look at spend up to £ 2 . 5 billion , and there be absolutely no way that I , the Secretary of State , the Chancellor or the Prime Minister could come to this House and say , " here be a steel strategy that we have write on the back of a fag packet after a couple of week think about it . " we need to do this right , and that be what we be do . I call Ann davy . Diolch yn fawr , Madam Dirprwy Lefarydd . I would like to follow up on a question from the hon . member for Brycheiniog , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) , because unlike at Scunthorpe , job at Port Talbot be not be save . the Government say that instead , they will retrain worker through the employment and skill flexible fund . seven month later , can the Secretary of State say exactly how that money have be spend , and how many of the 2 , 800 lay - off steelworker at Port Talbot have be retrain or re - employ ? I thank the hon . Lady for promote I to Secretary of State — I be actually just a junior Minister . she be right to raise the issue of Port Talbot . the transition board have paper that we can send she , which set out exactly how many people have go through training process . the number of people who have take compulsory redundancy be very small ; I might be wrong — I be speculate slightly — but I think it be in the region of 190 . those people have have a package of support , and a lot of detail be available through the transition board about how that support will be provide . of course , about 5 , 000 job will be secure in Port Talbot , but the hon . Lady be right to raise the issue ; it be a significant and important one that I would not want to downplay . the situation in Port Talbot be different , and we have to have a different response , but I be very happy to provide the information that she want in more detail . I call Jim Shannon to ask the final question from the Back Benches . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the Minister for all her hard work , and I thank the Secretary of State , the Prime Minister and the Labour Government for their commitment to , and for save , British Steel . there be no one in this great nation of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland who be not aware of that and do not welcome it , so well do . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , but can she confirm that developer and those in the construction sector in Northern Ireland , where steel be really important , will be able to secure steel as a certainty , and at a reasonable price ? can she confirm that they will not be tempt to outsource for fear that order will not be fulfil , because british steel will be accessible , viable , ready and available to those in Northern Ireland who wish to use it ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his word of appreciation . the construction sector be incredibly important when it come to steel . we be look at every measure we can take to ensure that people can buy british steel in a way that be competitive and useful for they . we be look at procurement and at other measure to make the sector more competitive , but the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that British Steel provide huge amount of steel for the construction sector , and we want that to continue . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Post Office Horizon scandal affect many innocent people , include a constituent of mine who have be wait for a response to their claim under the group litigation order scheme since August last year . I write to the Minister for service , small business and export , the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , on 10 December last year about that delay . despite chase the Minister more than 10 time , and be assure repeatedly that an answer be on its way — in fact , the late reply be that I be to expect an answer by Easter — I have still have no response to my letter , and my constituent be still wait . they can not understand why they have receive no answer from this Government . how might we ensure an urgent response to my constituent on this very sensitive matter , and for those other Horizon victim who be also apparently experience delay with the scheme ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for give notice of her point of order . I take it that she have notify the Minister that she intend to refer to he on the Floor on the House . indicate assent . I be not responsible for ministerial reply to member ' correspondence , but it be important that member receive timely reply . I be sure that member on the Treasury Bench will have note the right hon . member ' s remark . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . can you please advise I on the correct response to late notice of a constituency visit by another Member ? on 3 April , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) — who I have inform in advance of my intention to raise this point of order — write to I at 9 . 15 be to say that he be undertake several visit across Birmingham that day , include to my constituency . I understand that he campaign for the conservative party in Northfield a short time later . the publish rule of behaviour and courtesy of this House state that member should notify colleague whenever they intend to visit a colleague ' s constituency . it be clear from later correspondence that that intention predate the day itself . far , I draw attention to volume 718 , column 353 , of the Official Report , date 13 July 2022 . the Deputy Speaker in the Chair on that occasion state that " receive notice on the day of a visit do not reflect the intention of the guidance … I would expect all member to make effort to respect not just the letter of the guidance but its spirit , and to give notice at least in advance of the day of the visit itself . " — [ Official Report , 13 July 2022 ; Vol . 718 , c . 353 . ] can you please advise I on whether that expectation still stand , and if it do , what step we can take to ensure that member of the shadow Cabinet extend that courtesy , include to other Birmingham mps ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . I understand that he have notify the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) that he intend to raise this matter in the Chamber . I remind all hon . member that they must inform colleague in advance whenever they intend to visit another colleague ' s constituency , except for purely private purpose , and that as a matter of courtesy , that notice should not be leave until the last minute . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on Thursday 10 April , the Home Secretary visit my constituency with the Prime Minister . while the Prime Minister have the courtesy to inform I three hour ahead of his visit , the Home Secretary do not . this be not an isolated incident ; last month , I raise a point of order regard the Environment Secretary and the farming Minister , the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , not inform I of their visit . several hour after that visit , the Home Secretary ' s team contact I to say that they be inform I in accordance with paragraph 10 . 10 of the " Ministerial Code " . paragraph 10 . 10 clearly state that a Minister " must inform in advance , and in good time , the mp whose constituency be to be include within the itinerary . " the Home Secretary ' s notification be neither in advance nor in good time . could you please advise I whether , in this instance , the Home Secretary have break the ministerial code ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . I understand that he have notify the Home Secretary that he intend to raise this matter in the Chamber . again , I remind all hon . member that they must inform colleague in advance whenever they intend to visit another colleague ' s constituency , except for purely private purpose , and that as a matter of courtesy , that notice should not be leave until the last minute . litter from Vehicles ( Offences ) motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to increase penalty for civil offence relate to litter from vehicle ; to make provision about the use of technology in detect and identify person who have commit such offence ; and for connected purpose . I start by thank the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , for be here today . when I be first elect last year , I do not expect that litter would be one of the first issue I would be campaign on in Parliament , but over the past nine month it be something that constituent have raise with I again and again , because frankly , they be feed up . roadside litter have become more than just an eyesore . for many , it be a visible sign of a lack of respect for our environment , for our community and for each other . right now , too many people seem to think it acceptable to buy a takeaway from a drive - through , to eat it , drink it on the go , and then throw the rubbish out the window . research back that up . the road safety charity IAM RoadSmart find in February this year that nearly 40 % of motorcyclist have experience car driver or passenger throw litter out their window while overtake . National Highways find that 65 % of driver who admit to litter have throw food and drink packaging from their vehicle . keep Wales Tidy report that fast - food litter hit its high - ever level in its late annual report in 2023 . it appear that while some people care a lot about keep their car clean , they be not nearly as bother about keep our community clean . scientific litter mapping carry out on road network in and around Cardiff show that litter be drop every three second . that be the equivalent of 28 , 800 piece of litter every day in just one city . when roadside be already strew with litter , it signal that litter be acceptable and it encourage more of the same . in rural and coastal area , such as those I represent in north Wales , roadside litter add to the grow sense that tourism , while vital to our local economy , place a disproportionate burden on local resident and the authority task with clean up . to be clear , litter be already a criminal offence in England and Wales under the provision of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 . local authority can issue fix penalty notice in lieu of prosecution of up to £ 500 in England and £ 150 in Wales . in England , if someone be catch throw litter from a vehicle , litter authority can also issue a civil penalty , even if they can not establish the identity of the person who throw the litter . it be evident , though , that the current penalty be not act as a sufficient deterrent . we only need to look out of our car window the next time we slow down near a roundabout or traffic light to see the evidence . Litter be not just ugly ; it put those task with clear it up at risk , and it cost UK taxpayer a massive £ 1 billion a year to clear it up . many of we would agree that money could be well spend elsewhere , include on our NHS . Litter also have serious social and environmental consequence . it be estimate that 3 million animal die due to litter in the UK every year . discard food attract wildlife such as deer and fox to the side of the road , where they be more likely to be hit by car . small mammal get trap in bottle and die . the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals receive about 10 call a day about animal injure or kill by waste , and it believe the actual number to be far high . we be say to be a nation of animal lover , but the figure suggest otherwise . litter from vehicle make its way to the sea . a staggering 350 kg of litter be collect in just one day by North Wales Wildlife Trust volunteer during their annual beach clean - up in January . not all of that will have be throw from vehicle , of course , but a significant proportion of that which get throw from car end up get blow into watercourse and end up in our river and stream . microplastic be another huge concern as litter degrade in the environment . Bangor University conduct some of the world ' s first - ever research look at microplastic in the UK ' s river and lake and even find they in a remote lake near the summit of Yr Wyddfa . I be therefore pleased that both the UK and Welsh Governments be take action to tackle this kind of pollution , include by restrict single - use plastic and introduce deposit return scheme . to truly get a grip of this problem , we need a multi - pronged approach , and tackle roadside litter have to be part of that . some people might say that a lack of litter bin be to blame , and I do not disagree that more bin would help . the Road Haulage Association , which I have meet , be call for well facility for long - distance lorry driver , and I fully support that ask . however , a lack of bin do not make it okay for anyone to throw can , food packaging or empty bottle on our road know that somebody else will have to pick it up . I be sure that every Member of this House would join I in thank the army of volunteer up and down the country who dedicate their time and energy to litter - pick week in , week out . in my constituency , group such as the Friends of Mostyn Street in Llandudno , Trash Free Trails and keep Bangor Tidy — to name just a few — remove huge quantity from our community . we owe they all a huge debt of thank , but we can not keep expect volunteer to clear up after the minority of people who have refuse to act responsibly . one of the central mission of this Government be to take back our street , tackle crime and restore a sense of order . I strongly welcome the measure be introduce in the Crime and Policing Bill to crack down on antisocial behaviour and to stop turn a blind eye to what the last government deem " low - level crime " . in a similar vein , this Bill propose increase civil penalty for litter from vehicle , because I strongly believe that we need strong deterrent . the Bill also allow for an expansion in the use of technology for the identification of offender , which be currently a barrier to enforcement and far weaken the deterrent power of fix penalty notice . we need to ensure that the law keep pace with advance in technology , which will not only increase the detection rate , but reduce the cost of enforcement . to conclude , this Labour Government be relentlessly focus on the priority of work people in our country , and 81 % of people in the UK say that litter make they feel angry and frustrated . there be many press issue in the Government ' s in - tray inherit from the last 14 year , but tackle roadside litter will help restore pride in our community , protect biodiversity and support nature restoration . I hope that the House will support this Bill . I thank the House for give its time and attention to this important matter . question put and agree to . order , that Claire Hughes , Mr Alex Barros - Curtis , Andrew Ranger , Ann Davies , Becky Gittins , Catherine Fookes , Kanishka Narayan , Llinos Medi and Sarah Coombes present the Bill . Claire Hughes accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 16 May , and to be print ( Bill 222 ) . Sentencing Guidelines ( Pre - sentence Reports ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . when I speak in this House on 1 April , I set out the Government ' s intention to introduce emergency legislation , because I believe that our justice system must be above all else fair , and that , stand before a judge , we be all equal , no matter the colour of our skin or the question of our faith . give the existential nature of this matter for our justice system , I be clear that we would move at pace to change the law . the Sentencing Guidelines ( Pre - sentence Reports ) Bill be introduce that same day . with Second reading take place just three week later , we be forge ahead with plan to legislate as quickly as possible . before I set out the content of the Bill , it bear repeat how we come to be in the current situation and why expedite legislation be necessary . in the last Parliament , the Sentencing Council put forward revise guideline on the imposition of community and custodial sentence . I should note that during a statutory consultation they be welcome by the last Conservative Government in no uncertain term . the shadow Transport Secretary , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , who be a Justice Minister at the time , should be able to furnish his colleague with the detail , but as he be absent today , I will do so . can the right hon . Lady clarify whether the guideline propose under the previous Government be the same as those with which she be deal now , or do they differ — and if they differ , how do they differ ? they do not differ in any substantial way . all the guideline , in so far as they concern issue relate to race , religion , culture or belief , be exactly the same as those to which the Justice Minister respond under the Conservative Administration . hide behind that , I be afraid , show a failure to reckon with the Opposition ' s own track record , which have become quite a hallmark of theirs in recent week and month . these guideline help judge , when sentence an offender , to determine whether to impose a community order or a custodial sentence , provide guidance on the threshold for disposal of this type . in the process of decide which threshold have be meet , judge be require by law to obtain a pre - sentence report , except in circumstance where they consider such a report to be unnecessary . the report be use to give the court more context of the offend behaviour in a give case , and set out any factor that should be consider as part of the sentencing process . as I say to the House on 1 April , generally speak I be in favour of the use of pre - sentence report , and in fact I have recently free up capacity in the Probation Service precisely so that it have more time to produce report of this type . the chairman of the Sentencing Council have argue that the sentence should be tailor to the offender , but my constituent — and , I suspect , those of the Secretary of State — think that the sentence should be tailor to the offence and its effect on the victim . that be what count , not the background , circumstance , history or origin of the offender . the purpose of the pre - sentence report , use properly , be to provide the court with the full context of the offend behaviour . that enable the court to ensure that when it impose a custodial sentence it will be successful and capable of be deliver in respect of that offender , or else a community sentence should be impose instead . it be a useful mechanism that judge have at their disposal . we would expect it to be use in all case except when the court consider it unnecessary because they have all the information . because I consider pre - sentence report to be so important in give the court all the information that they need to pass the right sentence for the offender who be before they , I have specifically free up capacity in the Probation Service so that it can do more work of this type . however , the update guideline specifically encourage judge to request they for some offender and not other , stipulate circumstance in which a pre - sentence report would " normally be consider necessary " . that be the bit that I be seek to change . the right hon . Lady have just say something very important : namely , that she would normally expect a pre - sentence report to be give in all , or at least almost all , case . I hope that be her position , because what seem unfair to I be that a pre - sentence report , which presumably enable people to present argument in mitigation , should be available to some people who have be convict of a crime but not to other . surely it should be available either to everyone or to no one , because everyone ' s individual circumstance deserve the same degree of consideration . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . in fact , we fully support section 30 of the Sentencing Act 2020 — the sentencing code — which make it clear that a court must obtain a pre - sentence report unless it consider it unnecessary to do so . that would be in case where judge consider that they already have at their disposal the fact that will enable they to make a determination of the correct sentence for any particular offender . I think that the Sentencing Council get thing right in the paragraph of the current guideline that come before the one that be the subject of the debate and the Bill , which state : " psr be necessary in all case that would benefit from an assessment of one or more of the following : the offender ' s dangerousness and risk of harm , the nature and cause of the offender ' s behaviour , the offender ' s personal circumstance and any factor that may be helpful to the court in consider the offender ' s suitability for different sentence or requirement . " that cover all the area in which we would normally consider psr to be necessary , and I would like they to be use more extensively . indeed , I would like they to be the norm in all case , because I think they offer important information to people who be pass sentence — unless , of course , it be unnecessary because judge have already be furnish with all the detail , have hear the whole of the case that have be take place before they . the Lord Chancellor have just give we , very helpfully , the list of matter that might be relevantly consider in a pre - sentence report . as she have say , however , one of the item on that list be " personal circumstance " , and that be what the Bill will remove from the Sentencing Council ' s discretion . may I ask she why she have not use in the Bill the language that be include in the explanatory note ? paragraph 8 state that the Bill will " prevent differential treatment … it do this by prevent the creation of a presumption regard whether a pre - sentence report should be obtain base on an offender ' s membership of a particular demographic cohort " . that strike I as a much narrow exclusion , and perhaps one well target at the problem that the Lord Chancellor have , in my view , rightly identify . the right hon . and learn Gentleman be right . that be why we have offer the additional context in the explanatory note . personal characteristic and personal circumstance have , over the year , be elide in different court judgment , and the different definition of the two have sometimes slip . I want to make it clear in the Bill that we be constrain the Sentencing Council ' s ability to create guidance for psr in relation to personal characteristic . we refer in the Bill to race , religion , culture and belief , specifically to ensure that the Sentencing Council understand that we be target this part of the offend section of the imposition guideline . it will then have its own interpretation of how personal circumstance and personal characteristic should apply . I would expect this to be analogous to protect characteristic in the Equality Act 2010 , in term of the way in which the court be likely to approach the question of what a personal characteristic be for the purpose of the Bill . however , I want to make the intention behind the Bill very clear to the Sentencing Council , and to everyone else . it be tightly focused on the offend section of the imposition guideline and leave the wide question of personal circumstance untouched . as I will explain later in my speech , there be helpful Court of Appeal guidance on circumstance and on other occasion on which a PSR should normally be require , and nothing in the Bill will affect the Court of Appeal precedent that have already be set . be the Lord Chancellor aware that the Sentencing Council guideline , and indeed the Bill , turn on issue that some of we have campaign on for decade ? I think that there would be concern if the Bill undermine the independence of the judiciary . it certainly do not undermine the independence of the judiciary . there be a long tradition of campaigner , include my right hon . friend , who have a lengthy track record of campaign on issue relate to disparity within the criminal justice system and , indeed , across wide society . in so far as those disparity relate to the criminal justice system , my strong view be that they be matter of policy . Parliament be the proper place for that policy to be debate , and Parliament be the proper place for we to agree on what be the good mechanism to deal with those problem . it be not within the purview of the Sentencing Council , because this be a matter of policy . judge apply the law that be pass by this House ; that be their correct and proper function . I will always uphold their independence in that regard and will never interfere with it , but this turn on a matter of policy . it be right for the Government of the day to seek a policy response to this issue , and it be right for it to be debate and , ultimately , legislate for in the House . I thank the Lord Chancellor for open the debate , and for her answer to the question so far . I think every one of we believe that the foundational principle that justice be blind must be adhere to in every way , but we live in an age of ever - change political correctness , which , regardless of whether we like it or not , invade Parliament and our life . I be very much in favour of what the Lord Chancellor have say about race and faith . as a person of faith , I want to make sure that race and faith can never be mitigate or aggravating factor when it come to justice . give the life that we live , the world that we live in , and all the thing that impact on we daily and in this House as mps , can the Lord Chancellor confirm that faith , justice and religion will always be preserve in the way that they should be ? for I , one of the most moving part of the parliamentary day be when the day start with prayer . those be christian prayer , and I be of the muslim faith , but I always find it move to be part of they and to hear they . they remind we that we all belong to a country with a long heritage , which be steep in faith . the source code for much of the law of England and Wales be the Bible . the hon . Gentleman make some broad point on the issue of faith and how important it be , and I suspect that he and I have a lot in common in that regard . there must never be differential treatment before the law of our land , and before any court , on the basis of faith . I welcome the Lord Chancellor ' s point about parliamentary sovereignty and that fact that policy must be determine by this place . I think many member from across the House will have be quite shock by the response of the Sentencing Council to her letter when she ask it to consider the guideline again . do she agree that if this place continue to butt head with the Sentencing Council over guideline like these , maybe the good thing to do be abolish the Sentencing Council ? I have have constructive conversation with the Sentencing Council , and I have make it very clear that I do not really do personal . I certainly would not do it in relation to the judiciary , whose independence I uphold and whose security I be ultimately responsible for . I take those responsibility very seriously . I swear an oath on my holy book , and that mean a huge amount to I . there be a clear difference here about where the line be draw between matter of policy and matter that be correctly within the purview of the judiciary , which be how the law should be apply in the case that they hear . I be simply make it very clear that this be policy and be for this place to determine , but as I will come to later in my speech , this situation have highlight that there be potentially a democratic deficit here . that be why I be review the wide role and power of the Sentencing Council , and will legislate in upcoming legislation if necessary . I will now make more progress with my speech and give way to other colleague later if people wish to intervene again . the update guideline specifically encourage judge to request pre - sentence report for some offender and not for other , stipulate the circumstance in which a pre - sentence report would " normally be consider necessary " . this include case involve offender from ethnic , cultural or faith minority . in other word , a pre - sentence report would normally be consider necessary for a black offender or a muslim one , but not necessarily if an offender be christian or white , and we must be clear about what that mean . by single out one group over another , all may be equal but some be more equal than other . we must also be honest about the impact that this could have . equip with more information about one offender than another , the court may be less likely to send that offender to prison . I therefore consider the guidance to be a clear example of differential treatment . as such , it risk undermine public confidence in a justice system that be build on the idea of equality before the law . give that the Sentencing Council refuse the Lord Chancellor ' s first invitation to rewrite its guidance , be she confident that the limited nature of this Bill be sufficient ? would she not be wise to take a broad power to ensure that in future all sentencing guidance have an affirmative vote in this place ? it be right that , move at pace , I have seek to have a targeted Bill that deal with this particular imposition guideline . I have make it very clear that I be conduct a wide review of the role and power of the Sentencing Council . if we need to legislate far — maybe in the way that the hon . Gentleman suggest , although other mechanism be also potentially available — I will do so . I be not rule out further legislation — in fact , it be very much on the table — but it be right that we be move quickly in order to deal with the problem that could be cause by the guideline come into force , and that I have take target action in this short but focus Bill . as I tell the House a few week ago , I have several discussion with the Sentencing Council in the time lead up to 1 April , when the update guideline be due to come into force . I reiterate my gratitude to the council ' s chair , Lord Justice William Davis , for engage with I on this issue and for ultimately make the right call by pause the guideline while Parliament have its say . I should say again that I have no doubt whatsoever about the noble intention behind the propose change , because I understand the problem that the Sentencing Council be attempt to address . racial inequality exist in our justice system and be evident in the sentencing disparity between offender from different background , but as the Sentencing Council acknowledge , the reason for this be unclear . address inequality in the justice system be something that this Government take very seriously , and we be determined to increase confidence in its outcome , which be why we be work with the judiciary to make the system more representative of the public it serve . I have also commission a review of the datum that my Department hold on disparity in the justice system in order to well understand the driver of the problem , but although I agree with the Sentencing Council ' s diagnosis , I believe it have prescribe the wrong cure . go ahead with the new guideline would have be an extraordinary step to take . it would have be extraordinary because of what it put at risk : the very foundation of our justice system , which be build on equality before the law . the unintended consequence would have be considerable , because the idea that we improve thing for people in this country who look like I by tell the public that we will be give favourable treatment be not just wrong , but dangerous . we be all safe in this country when everyone know we be treat the same . if we sacrifice that , even in pursuit of a noble ideal such as equality , we risk bring the whole edifice crash to the ground . I know there be disagreement in this House with regard to the correct policy to pursue , not least between the shadow Secretary of State for Justice , who oppose the guideline , and the shadow Transport Secretary , whose support for they I have note already — though I suppose that do assume that the shadow Secretary of State for Justice really be who he show himself to be today . I must admit that I have begin to question whether his principle be set or really of no fixed abode . after all , he do pose as a Cameroon centrist for so many year , and only recently become his party ' s populist flag bearer . it be enough to make I wonder whether he be , in fact , a Marxist — but one of the Groucho variety . " these be my principle , " he say , and if you do not like they , he have other . regardless of our position on this question of policy , one thing be clear : this be a question of policy . how the state address an issue that be systemic , complex and of unclear origin be a question of what the law should be , not how the law should be apply . let I be clear about that distinction : parliament set the law and the judiciary determine how they be apply , and they must be defend as they do so . I will always defend judicial independence , and as I say early , I swear an oath to do so when I become the Lord Chancellor . give the shadow Lord Chancellor ' s recent diatribe , include just hour ago in this place , he may want to acquaint himself with that oath , if he intend ever succeed I in this position , although I be assume that it be my job he want , not that of the Leader of the Opposition . I think the Lord Chancellor just say that the approach to the guideline take by the Sentencing Council put the foundation of the justice system at risk . give that , how can she have confidence in a Sentencing Council that take such an approach ? I have engage constructively with the Sentencing Council and will continue to do so , and I be in the process of legislate to prevent this imposition guideline from ever come into force . it have currently be pause , and I think that be the right step for the Sentencing Council to take . I be conduct a wide review of the role and power of the Sentencing Council , and it be right that I take a bit more time to think carefully about that , about what we may or may not want it to do , and about how we may right the democratic deficit that have be uncover . I think my approach to the Sentencing Council be very clear from the action I be take . I do not think anyone be question the firm action the Lord Chancellor be take . the point my hon . friend the Member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) make be : why should it be necessary for she to take that action ? surely , if the Sentencing Council can not see the distinction she make between its proper role and Parliament ' s proper role , it be not fit to do the job . the Sentencing Council might argue , rightly , that give the guideline be welcome by the former Government , it probably think it be on safe ground than I consider it to be . however , there be clearly a confusion , a change in practice , or a development in way I disagree with about the proper line between what be practice or the application of the law and what be properly in the realm of policy . that be what I be absolutely not go to give any ground on and that I will be set right . the right hon . Lady be right about the move process or trend that she have describe , but the trouble be that it be part of a big problem , be it not ? it be the problem of judicial activism , and it be not new . for some time , judicial activist have seek to do exactly what she have say , and it be they , not people in this House , who endanger the separation of power . however , it be always up to the people in this House , if they feel that a law be be apply in way that be not intend , to put that law right . I be afraid the right hon . member ' s comment be a rather damn indictment of 14 year of Conservative Government , with 14 year of sit back and allow other people to do the policy work that Ministers in the previous Government perhaps do not have the time or inclination to do themselves . I do not think that judge , in apply the law , be do anything wrong ; they be do their job . they be public servant , and they do their job independently . it be right that we have an independent judiciary in this country . we be very lucky to have a judiciary that be world class and highly regard . one of the reason why so many business from all over the world want to do business in this country be that they know they can trust our court system and the independence of our judge . I think it be incumbent on the whole of this House to defend the independence of the judiciary , because that independence be hard win . it be one of our absolute USPs as a rule of law jurisdiction in this country , and none of we must ever do anything that put it at risk . if there be issue about the way in which the law be apply — if Parliament or Ministers ever consider that it have stray too far from the original intention — we can always legislate , and I be do just that today . I hope this be an example that other , if they have issue in their area , may consider take as well . it be a question of policy , and that should be decide and debate here in this place , in this House , and the public must be able to hold we to account for the decision we take , rewarding or punish we at the ballot box as they see fit . this be the domain of government , politic and Parliament , and today we reassert our ability to determine this country ' s policy on the issue of equality of treatment before the law . the right hon . Lady be make a point about the wide justice system and the importance of equality before the law . what have she do to assure herself and the House that , in all aspect of her Department ' s work , people be be treat equally under the law — whether in relation to parole , how they be treat in prison , bail condition and so on ? I have order a wide review of all guidance across all the MOJ ' s work in so far as it relate to equality before the law to make sure that the problem we have uncover here be not replicate elsewhere . there be the issue of bail guidance , which be discuss in the House early . I have already order a review , and that guidance be be redrafte as we speak . that particular guidance have be something like 20 year in the making — it have be add to over many year — so the redraft have to be careful and we must make sure it do not have any unintended consequence . however , we be crack on with that work at pace , and I will make sure that , by the time I be do , we can all be absolutely clear that this sweep towards allow potential differential treatment be sort out once and for all . rise — if the hon . Lady will forgive I , I will make more progress . I think I have be more than generous . that bring I to the Bill before we today . while the update Sentencing Council guideline be currently pause , if we do not act they will come into force — [ interruption . ] well , there be a lot to say , gentleman , about the previous Government ' s track record and it need to be say . and I do not think the hon . member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) should mind I take intervention from people on his own side . that be a novel approach for the shadow Front Bench . let I turn to the specific of the Bill . it be tightly focused , contain just two clause . clause 1 amend section 120 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 , which bring the Sentencing Council into existence . it dictate that the guideline the council produce may not include reference to personal characteristic , include race , religion or belief , or cultural background . clause 2 relate to how the Bill will be enact : that it will apply only to England and Wales , and that its measure will come into force on the day after it pass . it be also important to be clear about what the Bill do not do . it do not stop the Sentencing Council from issue broad guidance concern request for pre - sentence report in those case where it be helpful for the court to understand more about an offender ' s history and personal circumstance . the Bill do not interfere with the court ' duty to obtain a pre - sentence report in appropriate case , for example those involve primary carer and victim of domestic abuse . and , as detail in the Bill ' s explanatory note , it do not change exist precedent where the court have determine that pre - sentence report be necessary or desirable , in case such as : Thompson , where the Court of Appeal recently emphasise their importance in sentence pregnant woman or woman who have recently give birth ; Meanley , in which the court reference the value of pre - sentence report for young defendant ; or Kurmekaj , where the defendant have a traumatic upbringing , vulnerability , and be a victim of modern slavery . instead , the Bill narrowly focus on the issue at hand , put beyond doubt a principle which find its ancient origin in Magna Carta and have develop over the century to serve the interest of justice not just here but in jurisdiction around the world : that each of we , no matter who we be , where we come from or what we believe , stand equal before the law of the land . wide question remain about the role and the power of the Sentencing Council , as I have note . the council do important work , bring consistency to judicial decision making , but it be clear in this instance that it go beyond its original remit . it seek to set policy , which stand out of step with the Government of the day . therefore , it raise the question : who should set sentencing policy ? today ' s legislation only address this question in the narrow term , consider the guidance on pre - sentence report . it do not give we a definitive resolution as to whether it be Government Ministers or member of the Sentencing Council who should decide policy in the future . as I note , that leave we with a democratic deficit . as I tell the House on 1 April , the question of the role and power of the Sentencing Council must therefore be consider far . that work be already under way in my Department . should a further change be require , the Government will include it in upcoming legislation . the Sentencing Council play an important role in our justice system , and any change to it must be make carefully and with the consideration it deserve . I be sure they will be discuss more in this House in the month ahead , and I welcome the opportunity to debate they . the Bill we be debate today be small , but the issue it contain could not be of great significance . I know the majority of right hon . and hon . member in this House would agree that the Sentencing Council ' s intention on this issue be noble , but in try to reach for equality of outcome , they sacrifice too much , undermine the sacred principle of equality before the law . it be right that we , as policymaker , stop the update guideline from come into force . we must stand up for the idea that no matter our race or religion , no person should receive preferential treatment as they stand in the dock before a judge , so I beg to move that the Bill now be read a second time . I call the shadow Lord Chancellor . how do we get here ? it take a special kind of uselessness to engineer a crisis entirely of your own making and then to come to this House ask for applause as you legislate your way out of it . let we remind ourselves what actually happen here . the Sentencing Council , an unelected unaccountable quango create by the Labour party , issue guidance that would have divide our criminal justice system by race , religion and identity ; a two - tier system as offensive to common sense as it be to the most basic and important principle of equality before the law . the Justice Secretary , asleep at the wheel , either do not know or do not care . her official sign off the guidance , her Ministry nod it through , and the council publish it ; the guidance be due to come into force . only then , after I raise this issue with she in this House , and in the face of fierce opposition from the Conservatives , the press and the public , do she rouse herself from her stupor — only then do she discover her principle . even at that point , however , the Justice Secretary do not act decisively . she do not use her power to sack the architect of this shameful guidance , support my legislation or bring forward immediate legislation of her own to stop it . what do she do instead ? she write a letter beg the council to reconsider . such be the pace at which she move — or , rather , crawl — that it take a further seven day to put her thought in writing after a meeting . when the council do not move , the Justice Secretary threaten action — only to be humiliate by the chair of the council , who make clear that if she try , he would take legal action and potentially challenge his own Justice Secretary . so incompetent be she that the opposition have to take it upon ourselves to prepare a judicial review to do the Justice Secretary ' s job for she , and such be the level of chaos over which she nominally preside that the Government ' s own legal service be troop out against we to defend the very sentencing guideline that the Justice Secretary have denounce as two tier . in November 2023 , the Sentencing Council consult on these guideline , and say that a pre - sentence report may be " particularly important " if an offender belong to an ethnic , cultural and / or faith minority community . do the shadow Minister agree that it be particularly important ? I do not . if he do not agree , why do he say nothing for two year ? I have to applaud the hon . gentleman for read out his whip ' question there . I have say it before and I will say it again , however : I do wish that he and those on the Labour Front Bench would stop perpetuate something that be obviously untrue . they know it be untrue . it have be say numerous time . the Sentencing Council itself — [ interruption . ] let I finish my point , because it be important . order . the shadow Lord Chancellor have just suggest that those on the Government Front Bench be perpetuate an untruth . he might like to think about whether he wish to withdraw that comment . it be , I hope , inadvertent , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Sentencing Council write to the Lord Chancellor correct she on this very point , and make clear that the guidance that be put before the previous Conservative Government be materially different from the one — rise — let I finish the point . if hon . member do not like the answer , perhaps they should hear it in full . the Sentencing Council make it clear that the guidance that be put before the previous Conservative Government be materially different from what be ultimately put before this Labour Government . the council say in the previous iteration that pre - sentencing report would usually be require . there be a presumption that pre - sentence report would come forward , but importantly , it preserve full discretion . the guidance that be ultimately bring forward , which be give the nod by the Justice Secretary ' s official who be present at the final meeting of the Sentencing Council , make a significant distinction : it say that such report " must " be request . that remove the discretion available to judge , which be a very significant difference . I have the pre - sentence report guidance in front of I . it say : " when consider a community or custodial sentence , the court must request and consider a pre - sentence report ( PSR ) before form an opinion of the sentence , unless it consider that it be unnecessary " . it then go on to describe various circumstance in which a pre - sentence report might be consider necessary and may " normally be consider necessary " . it do not remove judicial stipulation and intervention completely , and to suggest otherwise be not accurate . the guidance do not use that phrase . it say a report would " usually " be require . that be an important point , because it remove discretion . of course , there might be instance in which a judge would not request a report , but I think it would be extremely unlikely , in practice , that a judge would choose not to take forward a pre - sentence report , in the light of the new guidance . that be why we feel it so important to take action . rise — let I make some progress . eventually the Sentencing Council do u - turn , but not before the guidance have briefly come into force . the council take until midday on 1 April , which be several hour after the guidance have come into force , to update magistrate and judge . its email undermine the Lord Chancellor yet again . it state that it still believe that the guidance be " necessary and appropriate " . the whole saga have be nothing short of farcical . it have be an embarrassment . it have damage public confidence in the justice system , and the Justice Secretary ' s Bill do not fix that trust deficit . it be half - baked . it be a half - job that store up problem for another day — because , make no mistake , we will be back here again and again ; it will be like Groundhog Day . the Justice Secretary have leave in post at the Sentencing Council the very people who draft these rule and decline her initial invitation to change they . she have leave the system intact , and she have leave the door wide open for this to happen again . that be not hypothetical . we know for a fact that more offensive two - tier sentencing guideline be incoming . the Sentencing Council be consult on new immigration guideline that water down sentence for people smuggler . if they come into force , hundred of immigration offender a year will not meet the 12 - month threshold for automatic deportation , blow a hole in border control . if the Justice Secretary want to stop that — there be plenty of open - border activist who would oppose she — this Bill leave her powerless to do so . she have choose to be powerless . it be the definition of madness to repeat the same decision and expect different result . history will keep repeat itself until minister take back control of sentencing framework . but still the Justice Secretary stand at the Dispatch Box and claim that there will be no two - tier justice under her leadership . the Bill fix one small element of the problem and leave the rest of it entirely intact . it do nothing to stop the two - tier pre - sentence report guidance , which still instruct probation officer to take into account so - call intergenerational trauma — trauma suffer not by the defendant , but presumably by their ancestor . it do nothing to stop the bail guidance issue by the Ministry of Justice , which instruct official to " prioritise " ethnic minority defendant for bail decision — not on the fact of the offence , not on the basis of risk to the public , but because of their racial or cultural identity . it do nothing to stop the " Equal Treatment Bench Book " , the official handbook for judge , which be riddle with activist talking point , include the claim that migrant be mistreat by the press , and the adoption of a dangerously expansive definition of Islamophobia that could amount to a back - door blasphemy law . everywhere we look — more example emerge every week — this ideology run through the Ministry of Justice like rot through the rafter . the principle of equality before the law , one of the great inheritance of our country , be be systematically invert , replace by cultural relativism , by a hierarchy of victimhood . some defendant be to be treat gently ; other be to face the full force of the law — all depend on their background , race , religion or self - declare identity . that be not justice . it be injustice , wrap in the language of compassion . but who be it compassionate to ? the victim ? of course not ; they do not get a look in . my right hon . friend deserve great credit for champion the cause of justice and oblige the Government to follow suit , albeit grudgingly . leave aside the fundamental injustice that he describe — the two - tier justice system — do he acknowledge that what the Sentencing Council propose and continue to do undermine popular faith in the rule of law and justice and , as the Lord Chancellor herself say , tear the whole system apart ? that be the very real risk of what we see , not just in these aborted sentencing guideline , but in the broad fabric of two - tier justice that we be reveal with every pass day . what we all want to see , and what I believe the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) want to see as well , be equality before the law . that mean that in no instance should the law be apply differently depend on the colour of people ' s skin or the faith that they abide by . we must all fight against that , because it be immensely corrosive to public trust and confidence in the criminal justice system . the right hon . Member be paint a terrifying picture of our justice system . in his work , have he manage to identify when these issue all start ? the guideline we be talk about come into force — or would have do — under this Labour Government . I will not return to everything I say early , but those of we who be in this Chamber on the day that I reveal this issue all know that neither the Justice Secretary nor any of her Ministers have the faint idea that any of this be happen . I watch the Justice Secretary look to her Ministers ; she be greet by blank face . they have no grip on what be happen in their Department . the hon . member for Hartlepool make the good point that the issue that we be discuss predate this Labour Government . this be a broad issue face our country . we all have to be defender of equality under the law . I do not seek equality of outcome in our criminal justice system ; I seek equality of treatment . that be the heart of a fair criminal justice system . that may be a point of difference between some of we in this House . all I seek be for every person in this country — man or woman , regardless of their religion or the colour of their skin — to be treat exactly the same by the law . everywhere we look in the Ministry of Justice , we see this ideology . the most worrying part be that I think the Justice Secretary know this . she stand here and say that the appearance of differential treatment before the law be particularly corrosive , and I agree wholeheartedly with she . will the right hon . member give way ? I will make progress . the guidance do not just create the appearance of two - tier justice ; it be two - tier justice . the Secretary of State can not wash her hand of that . the bail guidance come from her own Ministry . the pre - sentence guidance be issue by official she oversee . the bench book be sanction by the Judicial College , under the watch of the Lady Chief Justice . if the Justice Secretary truly believe in equality before the law , and if her word be more than empty slogan , why be any of this happen on her watch ? the truth be simple . this Bill be not the solution . it be a fig leaf . it be damage control . it be political theatre to distract from the deep rot that the Government have permit to fester . until this type of guidance be rip out , root and branch , from sentencing , bail , judicial training and appointment , the principle of equality before the law remain under direct assault . we will not vote against the Bill , because we will never support two - tier justice , but we will not let the Justice Secretary rewrite history , either . she do not stop these rule or fight against they . she do not even know about they until we point they out to she . she allow they to happen , and then panic when the backlash come . now she be use this House ' s time to clean up her mess . she wear the robe and she don the wig , but she be not in control of the justice system . despite the big talk today , there be still two - tier justice on her watch . if she continue to do so little about it , we can only conclude that , at heart , she truly support it . I call the Mother of the House . I can see that , when it come to this legislation , I be in a minority — it be not the first time , and I suspect that it will not be the last . there have be a great deal of misinformation about the Sentencing Council ' s original guideline , both in the run - up to and during the debate , so I , with all humility , want to insert some fact into the debate . first , it be important to recognise what the Sentencing Council actually be . much of the debate today and in recent week have seem to presume that it be a bunch of heedless young barrister and social worker . on the contrary , the Sentencing Council be largely compose of some of the most senior judge in the land . they include : Lord Justice William Davis , its chair , who be call to the Bar in 1976 ; his Honour Judge Simon Drew , a circuit judge sit in the Court of Appeal ; Lord Justice Tim Holroyde , lord justice of appeal and vice - president of the Court of Appeal ; and the honourable Mr Justice Mark Wall , who be appoint a High Court judge in 2020 . there be also some senior probation officer and magistrate . that be hardly a cohort of man and woman who need the firm hand of an MP on their shoulder to explain to they what the rule of law be . the right hon . Lady be make the important point that the Sentencing Council be comprise of senior and learn individual . give that , what circumstance do she think conspire to let it get the guideline so very wrong ? it be clearly feel on both side of the House that they be wrong . I can say with confidence that the Sentencing Council be talk about issue to do with race and criminal justice because of a history , go back decade , of problematic issue in relation to race and criminal justice . I will come to those later . the independence of the Sentencing Council be crucial , and the idea that anybody in the Chamber be stand up for law and order yet seek to undermine its independence — and by implication , that of the judiciary as a whole — be quite remarkable . next , what do the guideline actually say ? much of the debate imply that black and minority person be single out for pre - sentence report under the guideline . on the contrary , there be a whole list of people in the guideline on whom , the Sentencing Council suggest , judge and magistrate might ask for a pre - sentence report . those person include those at risk of commit their first custodial sentence ; young adult ; woman ; ethnic minority ; yes , cultural minority , of course ; pregnant and post - natal woman ; and the sole or primary carer for dependent relative . the Sentencing Council be clear that that be not an exclusive list ; ideally , every defendant should have a pre - sentence report . the aim of the guideline be to ensure that judge and magistrate get the most information possible . who could object to garner more information on any defendant ? it be certainly not the intention of the guideline to dictate the sentence in any give case . yet it be be argue that a pre - sentencing report will discourage a judge from send an offender to jail . we be ask to believe that our judiciary be weak - minded and susceptible , and that it will not live up to its century - old standard , which , as we hear early , go all the way back to Magna Carta . however , the House be also tell early that our judiciary be world - class and highly regard . both proposition can not be true . yes , they can . well , either our judiciary be world - class and highly regard , or it be so soft - minded that the very existence of a pre - sentencing report will make it rule in a way in which it would not otherwise have rule . decision by judge and magistrate on individual case be not the same as policy . the Sentencing Council itself be very clear that it do not seek to dictate policy ; it be simply try to ensure that judge and magistrate have the maximum amount of information . lead King ' s Counsel Keir Monteith say that there have be a deliberate misreading of the rule in order to generate a row , and I believe that be correct . then we come to the talk , which I have hear on both side of the House , about two - tier criminal justice . that can only mean that black defendant be treat more favourably than white defendant . yet the fact tell we to the contrary . minister will be aware of the Lammy review , chair by my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) — now the Foreign Secretary . it be a review of race in the criminal justice system , in which he find that " despite make up just 14 % of the population , " black and ethnic minority man and woman " make up 25 % of prisoner , while over 40 % of young people in custody be from BAME background . " he add : " if our prison population reflect the make - up of England and Wales , we would have over 9 , 000 few people in prison — the equivalent of 12 average - sized prison . " my right hon . friend do not find a criminal justice system where black and brown people be treat more favourably than white people , and he do not find equality before the law . there be no reason to believe that thing have change since he draw up his review . we need to appreciate that not only do we have a two - tier system , but it be a two - tier system in completely the opposite way to what the Lord Chancellor suggest , and it have be like that for decade . the population want to see our two - tier criminal justice system take seriously . member may remember the tragic death of Stephen Lawrence in the early 1990 . it take a Labour Government and a Labour Home Secretary to commission a judge - lead inquiry into the Stephen Lawrence case . in 1999 the Macpherson inquiry report . it speak in an unequivocal way about institutional racism in the police service , and it speak in a way that I have never hear it speak about in this House or at the most senior level in the state . nobody since then have challenge the notion that there be institutional racism in the police . do we have to have our own Macpherson inquiry into the working of the judicial system before people will accept that institutional racism be an issue in the court as well ? it be not enough to say , " well , you know , the fact point in that direction but we be not quite sure why the figure be like that . " we know why the figure be like that , and we have know that for decade . if we want to win the respect of the community as a whole , we must be see to be work towards a fair criminal justice system , not just try to score point off the opposition ; and we must look at the long term , rather than the short term . we know that , in England and Wales , black people be much more likely to be arrest than white people . specifically , black individual be twice as likely to be arrest as white individual . that disparity extend to imprisonment , with black individual be more likely to be sentence to prison and serve long sentence than their white counterpart . everybody know that people be not treat the same , and it be misleading of member on both side of the House to imply that that be so . Peter Herbert , chair of the Society of Black Lawyers , say : " we have experience racist two - tier police for over 500 year . if we achieve equal treatment that be not two - tier as it be long overdue . we have never ask for special treatment only equal treatment . " the Lord Chancellor should pay attention to the wish of so many member of the community , in her constituency in Birmingham and my constituency in east London , and the wish of so many million of people in the community to see a fair criminal justice system that treat people fairly , not unfairly as have happen in the past . member will know that it take the Macpherson inquiry to get a measure of understanding about criminal justice in police . in closing , I will say this . it be interesting to hear the banter about this issue between those on the two front Benches , but this be not an issue for banter . this be people ' s life ; this be people ' s liberty . I do not think that the debate be enhance by some of the Trump - like narrative that we be get from the opposition . we do not need Donald Trump - type politic in Britain today . we need seriousness about the unfair discrimination in the criminal justice system , and a willingness not just to talk about it , but to do something about it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , Josh Babarinde . liberal Democrats believe in equality before the law , Liberal Democrats believe in the rule of law , and Liberal Democrats believe that no one be above the law , so it have be hearten to hear those word echo across the Chamber today . but action speak louder than word , which be why I regret to say that few have act more to erode those legal and democratic value than the two - tier Tory party that occupy the Benches next to I — two - tier Tories who unlawfully partie in no . 10 , while the rest of we miss funeral for lose relative ; two - tier Tories who unlawfully suspend Parliament to get their way , while lecture we about the rule of law ; two - tier Tories who unlawfully approve development for their donor mate , while purport to talk tough on crime ; and two - tier Tories whose unlawfulness , chaos and double standard land they with the big election defeat in their history . the conservative still have not learn , because that hypocrisy continue today in the context of the sentencing guideline in question . they nod through early edition of the guideline when they be in government , yet they make a scene about they today now that it have become politically convenient for they to do so . accord to the Sentencing Council , just one MP object to the cohorting in the previous guideline put out to consultation in 2023 - 24 . I will give way to the then Home Office Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , if he can confirm that it be he who make that objection . no — radio silence . [ interruption . ] our country deserve well than the circumstance that have give rise to the Bill . those circumstance be ultimately that the previous Government underfunde our probation and court system so severely that pre - sentence report have since be ration and be not use universally , or indeed anywhere near it . in fact , the use of pre - sentence report have decline by 44 % over the last decade almost , accord to Lord Timpson . that be despite the sentencing code have a presumption in favour of their use , regardless of any personal characteristic or circumstance . the Liberal Democrats believe that that near - universal presumption be critical , because when the state be consider deprive someone of their liberty , judge and magistrate should be equip with all the information possible to pass the sentence that be most likely to reduce reoffende and protect victim and survivor . offender need it and victim deserve it . the Liberal Democrats believe that we should really be have a debate about how we can resource a criminal justice system that can fulfil pre - sentence report for all offender who need they , rather than a debate that feel ground in ration their use . we will therefore abstain on Second Reading , not because of indifference , but because of principled concern that I will present constructively , to reciprocate the constructiveness with which the Secretary of State and her official have engage with I on this matter in recent week . one concern be that this Bill simply be not necessary to achieve its stated aim . the Sentencing Council have , in response to the strength of feeling in Parliament , pause the implementation of its guideline . it have not say how long that pause will last . my understanding be that the Department have not ask the council how long it would be willing to pause the guideline . it seem to I that , in response to the most recent act of the Lord Chancellor , there be new - find space for an agreement to be reach , through dialogue with the Sentencing Council and the Lady Chief Justice , without a single minute of debate on primary legislation . such legislation could then be devoted instead to patch up other injustice in our system . another concern be that this proposal be be rush through without comprehensive consultation or co - ordination with wide work that be already under way . David Gauke be currently conduct an independent review of sentencing , which be due to report this spring . that review ought to have provide a clear opportunity to examine these issue in depth and to ensure that any reform be evidence - base , balanced and consider in the broad context of sentencing policy . if the Government be convince that primary legislation be require , why not wait for the Gauke review to report , take advantage of that independent insight , and then introduce coherent proposal in legislation later in this session ? an additional concern be that although the Bill ostensibly gesture towards fairness , it fail to confront some of the most pressing injustice in our criminal justice system — to which the Mother of the House , the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , refer — include those identify by the Lammy review . we know that there be disproportionality at most stage of the criminal justice process affect various group , from stop and search to charge decision , early guilty plea and sentence outcome . ethnic minority individual , woman and those with mental health issue continue to be over - represent and underserved , yet this legislation make no attempt to address that . while I welcome the review of datum that the Justice Secretary describe , it be unwelcome that the outcome of that do not feature in these proposal . finally , I be deeply troubled with the political context in which this Bill be be introduce . it may appear technical on the surface , but the legislation risk fall into a trap in which criminal justice be use by some in this House and beyond to stoke division , appeal to populist headline and wage a cynical culture war . we must not allow our court and sentencing practice to become pawn in that political game , nor part of a second stab at a Tory leadership campaign . it be critical that in this debate and in any reform we make to sentence policy , we lead with an evidence - base process and with a determination to tackle the injustice embed in our criminal justice system , whether it be those disproportionately affect woman , ethnic minority or white working - class boy — the list continue . we urge the Government to listen , reflect and return with proposal that work with the Sentencing Council , with the judiciary and with the finding of David Gauke ' s independent sentencing review . only then can we abolish the unjust two - tier system create under the two - tier Tories . after the Chair of the Justice Committee , I propose to introduce a four - minute time limit . I be conscious that many member will be disappoint this evening . let I begin by summarise how we get here . on 29 November 2023 , the Sentencing Council launch a consultation on propose change to the imposition of community and custodial sentence guideline . on 19 February 2024 , the then Minister for Sentencing , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , write to the chair of the council and welcome its work on the revised guideline , in particular the " fuller guidance around the circumstance in which court should request a pre - sentence report " . on 28 March 2024 , the then Chair of the Justice Committee , Sir Bob Neill KC , write to the chair of the Sentencing Council note that the council have conduct a particularly effective consultation exercise . on 5 March 2025 , a year later , the Sentencing Council publish the revised guideline , say that it would come into effect on 1 April . the same day see the first exchange in this Chamber between the Lord Chancellor and the shadow Lord Chancellor , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , on the guideline . the accusation by the shadow Lord Chancellor that the guideline would " make a custodial sentence less likely " for those from an ethnic minority , cultural minority and / or faith minority community be not the view of the Sentencing Council , but the exchange lead to extensive correspondence between the Lord Chancellor and the chair of the Sentencing Council for the rest of March . I do not have time today to describe the content of those letter , but the central point raise by the chair of the Sentencing Council be that the purpose of a pre - sentence report be to provide information , not to determine the sentence . he say : " frequently the information provide will not assist the offender ' s prospect of avoid a custodial sentence : rather the reverse . " he add that the guideline do not make a custodial sentence less likely for someone simply by way of their membership of a cohort ; that the guideline " do not instruct or mandate judge and magistrate to request a pre - sentence report " but be discretionary ; that the list of cohort be " non - exhaustive " ; that a pre - sentence report " may be necessary " for those outside the list ; and that , " the section of the guideline relate to pre - sentence report be direct to the issue of information about offender , no more and no less . " on 31 March 2025 , follow a meeting with the Sentencing Council , the Lord Chancellor say she be go to introduce legislation to render the section on cohort unlawful . the guideline be due to come into force on 1 April . as a result , the council say that it would delay the date on which the guideline be due to come into force , pende such legislation take effect . on 1 April 2025 , this Bill be give its First Reading . the Bill be design to make it unlawful for a sentencing guideline issue by the Sentencing Council to include a presumption that a pre - sentence report should be obtain base on the offender ' s membership of a particular demographic cohort . the Bill have one operative clause , clause 1 , which would amend section 120 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 . the drafting of clause 1 indicate that the provision will apply to all sentencing guideline that have be issue by the Sentencing Council and that be already in force when the provision in this Bill take effect . the Bill state that guideline produce by the Sentencing Council can not include provision frame by reference to " personal characteristic " . the Bill then specify that " ' personal characteristic ' include , in particular … race … religion or belief … cultural background . " the list be non - exhaustive and therefore also cover other personal characteristic — for example , age , disability , sex and sexual orientation . clause 1 would therefore render unlawful the follow cohort that be include in the imposition of community and custodial sentence guideline issue on 5 March : " a young adult … female … from an ethnic minority , cultural minority , and / or faith minority community … pregnant or post - natal … have disclose they be transgender … have or may have a serious chronic medical condition or physical disability , or mental ill health , learn disability … or brain injury / damage " . the explanatory note state that the Bill do not prevent the Sentencing Council " from issue guideline advise court to consider the offender ' s personal circumstance in decide whether to request a PSR " . the explanatory note also state that the Bill do not affect Court of Appeal case law on the circumstance where a pre - sentence report be either necessary or desirable . it then cite three case : " Thompson … which say that where a woman who be pregnant or have recently give birth be to be sentence , it be desirable for the court to obtain a pre - sentence report ; … Meanley … where the court refer to the importance of psr in serious case involve young defendant ; and … Kurmekaj … where the court say that the defendant ' s traumatic upbringing , vulnerability and the fact they have be a victim of modern slavery mean a PSR should have be request " . the Government have repeatedly emphasise that they object to the inclusion of ethnic , cultural and / or faith minority community in the guideline . the Government have not say that they object to the inclusion of the other cohort in the guideline frame by personal characteristic . the fact that the explanatory note make clear that the Government do not intend to prevent the Court of Appeal , or any other body , from issue guidance relate to pre - sentence report from be frame by personal characteristic , other than ethnic , cultural and / or faith minority community , would appear to indicate that they do not object in principle to such an approach . I be sure some of these matter can be explore more in Committee . I will conclude by say a few word about judicial independence . in his letter date 10 March to the Lord Chancellor , the chair of the Sentencing Council say : " there be general acceptance of the guideline by the judiciary because they emanate from an independent body on which judicial member be in the majority . the Council preserve the critical constitutional position of the independent judiciary in relation to sentencing . " the independence of the judiciary be recognise as a principle of fundamental importance to the United Kingdom ' s constitution . the principle serve to protect the judiciary ' s ability to exercise its function in decide case in accordance with the law and free from external pressure . decide on an offender ' s sentence be a clear example of that , but the principle of judicial independence also require that the judiciary be treat with respect and with recognition of the constitutional boundary between the judiciary , the Executive and Parliament . Lord Hodge , the deputy president of the Supreme Court , say in 2018 : " within Parliament it be a parliamentary custom , support by ruling of the Speaker , that an attack on a judge ' s character or motive , or charge of a personal nature or a call for his or her dismissal , should be make only on a substantive motion on which a vote will be take , and also that argument that a judge have get a decision wrong should be make in moderate language . " there have be significant criticism of the Sentencing Council , and in particular its chair , in this Chamber . the shadow Lord Chancellor ask on 1 April in this House if the Lord Chancellor could " honestly say at the Dispatch Box that she have confidence in the head of the Sentencing Council , Lord Justice Davis , give that he have bring it into total disrepute " — [ Official Report , 1 April 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 184 . ] criticise the judiciary for their decision in their capacity as member of the Sentencing Council risk undermine their independence as serve judge . it remain to be see whether the measure in this Bill have ripple beyond the narrow prescription in clause 1 . I look forward to the Government clarify the detailed effect of the Bill in Committee , but it would be unfortunate if such a modest piece of legislation leave in its wake collateral damage to the relationship between Parliament , the Executive and the judiciary . it be important in this debate to be clear what we be talk about and what we be not . the part of the guideline produce by the Sentencing Council that lead to this legislation relate to the circumstance in which a pre - sentence report be produce , not to the passing of a sentence itself . it be also important not to overstate the problem . as we have hear , there be already law that say there should be a pre - sentence report in almost all case , unless it be unnecessary , and most offender be consider for either a community or custodial sentence — in the Crown court , at least — already have one . the guidance that the Sentencing Council produce on the ordering of a pre - sentence report , though , do matter . that be because such a report be design to give sentencer more information about the person they be sentence . without that information , it can be very hard to apply the full range of sentencing option . that might be about whether a rehabilitation activity requirement or a programme requirement might be appropriate , or to assess capacity for unpaid work . if a sentencer do not order a pre - sentence report for a particular offender , they may not be able to impose some of the more demanding community sentence and may find themselves more likely to impose a custodial sentence as the only available and realistic alternative . it do matter whether a sentencer be be encourage to order such a report for an offender , and any guideline suggest that this should be more appropriate for someone of one ethnicity , faith or culture , as oppose to another , can not be right . I accept that the Sentencing Council be try to do good , but in reality we do not address inequality by replace it with a different inequality . the Sentencing Council have misjudge this issue , and the Government be entitle to come to that view too . it would have be well if legislation be not need to resolve this issue , but the Sentencing Council , independent as we know it be , have clearly conclude that it will not do as the Lord Chancellor have ask , and that mean that legislation be the only realistic alternative . however , I have concern about the way in which the Government be go about this , particularly in the breadth of the drafting of the Bill . I mention in an intervention on the Lord Chancellor one specific concern , which I will not go over again in view of the time , but which we might return to in the later stage of the Bill . I think it be worth Ministers consider whether the use of the phrase " personal characteristic " be too broad . the Chair of the Justice Committee read out some of the other personal characteristic refer to in the draft guideline , which I do not think be anywhere near as controversial . we need to keep in mind that this be about a process in which a sentencer be give information about an offender in order to determine the appropriate sentence . I do not think that information about faith or ethnic origin would fall into the appropriate category , but information about health condition or disability most certainly might . there be a danger of throw the baby out with the bathwater : not all personal characteristic should be leave out of account in sentencing . I therefore ask Ministers to consider whether they can tighten the wording of clause 1 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) in particular . if they do so , I think that will avoid some rather arcane discussion about what can be properly describe as personal circumstance and personal characteristic . however , I also think there be a danger of lose sight of the good work that the Sentencing Council do . I accept that this will not be a universally popular point of view , but I do think that the Sentencing Council add something important to the sentencing process . it be important that we do not lose sight of that , or of the fact that the guideline that have be draft be to replace substantially out - of - date guidance . I hope that point will also be note by Ministers . while I acknowledge that the update Sentencing Council guideline attempt to address inequality in the criminal justice system , we must maintain the principle of equality before the law . as such , I support this Bill . I note , however , that the Bill do not prevent the Sentencing Council from issue guideline advise the court to consider an offender ' s personal circumstance when decide whether to request a pre - sentence report , particularly when those circumstance be uniquely link to their personal characteristic . pre - sentence report be desirable when the defendant be a vulnerable woman who have commit a less serious crime — for instance , when they be pregnant or post - natal , the primary carer for dependent child , or a victim of domestic abuse or exploitation . of course , those issue be often compound when we consider intersectionalitie , such as those experience by black woman . so many woman in the criminal justice system be vulnerable : nearly two third be victim of domestic abuse , a similar percentage have child , and many have experience adverse childhood experience and trauma . those vulnerability factor make it critical that personal circumstance affect female offender be give consideration in pre - sentence reporting . woman in custody have complex health need , which can increase the risk associate with pregnancy for mother and their child . baby bear in prison be twice as likely to be bear premature and seven time more likely to be stillborn . these be not just number ; they affect real people , woman who be already experience trauma and baby enter the world in incredibly difficult circumstance . consideration of pregnancy and the associate risk to mother , their unborn child and their newborn baby be therefore critical in determine appropriate sentencing . custodial sentence can often do more harm than good , both to pregnant woman and to their child . woman be far less likely on average to commit violent or sexual offence , and be far more likely to be charge with petty crime , non - violent crime and theft . in those case , community sentence may be prefer , so long as the offender do not present a risk to wide society . in April 2024 , the Sentencing Council introduce a new mitigate factor — pregnancy , childbirth and post - natal care — in sentence guideline to consider the impact of custody on pregnant offender and their dependant . this factor recognise that when the impact on offender ’ dependant would be disproportionate to the aim of custodial sentencing , imprisonment should not be impose . specifically , it relate to whether the risk pose to woman and their dependant outweigh the risk associate with their crime , in order to determine a fair sentence for all — both for wide society , and for the offender and her child . it be critical that the justice system strike the right balance when determine sentencing , and a pre - sentence report can inform this . as such , I be particularly glad that this Bill do not affect Court of Appeal case law on when pre - sentence report be necessary or desirable in case concern woman who be pregnant , be victim of domestic abuse , or have recently give birth . I believe that many of the issue raise today speak to a wide issue pertain to woman ' s experience in the justice and sentencing system more broadly . ensure access to pre - sentence report help court to make inform , fair and just decision , and for woman in vulnerable circumstance , that can make all the difference . this Bill be unfortunately necessary because of the unwise action of the Sentencing Council . while the Lord Chancellor be right to bring the Bill forward , she do so only at the very last moment . it be on Monday 31 March , mere hour before the guideline be due to come into force , that the Sentencing Council be force to perform a u - turn . those guideline would have lead to a two - tier justice system in England and Wales . the Sentencing Council do not withdraw those guideline out of wisdom or principle — it do so because it be catch out . its backtrack be quietly communicate to judge and magistrate several hour after court have already open on Tuesday . to make matter bad , the Sentencing Council ' s message say that it still believe the policy be necessary . there be nothing necessary about that policy . under the propose guideline , judge and magistrate be tell that pre - sentence report should normally be require when sentence individual from ethnic , faith or cultural minority group . what about those who be white , male and not part of a specify minority ? they would not have fall within that description . the implication be clear : defendant will be treat differently , not base on their action or the harm they have cause , but base on their identity , and that be wrong . it be only after the intervention of my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , the shadow Justice Secretary , that the Lord Chancellor rightly take action . race , culture and religion should never determine whether someone go to prison . the Lord Chancellor say that she be willing to legislate to stop this travesty if the Sentencing Council refuse to back down , and that be what we be now do . this be about the most fundamental principle in a free society : equality before the law . the question we must now ask ourselves be how the Sentencing Council get this so badly wrong and , judge by the comment of Lord Justice Davis , would continue to get wrong . the Sentencing Council ' s guideline would have have real consequence . in borderline case where a judge be unsure whether to issue a custodial sentence , the presence or absence of a pre - sentence report can be decisive . the whole purpose of these report be to influence the outcome . by tilt the system toward give those report preferentially to certain identity group , the council would effectively be tip the scale of justice , and the council know it . Baroness Falkner , chair of the Equalities and Human Rights Commission , have warn that the guideline may violate the Equality Act 2010 . if we allow sentencing outcome to be guide by race , faith or cultural identity , we abandon the core british principle that the law apply equally to all of we . I agree with the Lord Chancellor that we should pass this legislation to override this guidance , but how confident be she that we will not face a similar situation again ? I would like she to go far and ensure that Parliament be give oversight of all future sentencing guidance . we must put into law the principle that no factor like race , religion or cultural minority status should ever influence sentencing procedure . justice must remain blind , not selectively blinker . if we lose equal justice , we lose the foundation of a free society . I welcome this Bill and the swift action take by the Lord Chancellor to correct a clear wrong . have they be implement , the Sentencing Council ' s new guideline would have introduce differential treatment before the law , which can never and should never be acceptable . the question be : how do we get to this point ? do these guideline simply appear out of nowhere ? of course they do not . they be subject to extensive consultation under the previous Conservative Government , who welcome they without reservation . the consultation publish in November 2023 and close in February 2024 indicate clearly that a pre - sentence report " may be particularly important " if the offender belong to ethnic , cultural or faith minority community . the then conservative sentencing Minister , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) write to the Sentencing Council , thank it and welcome the expand guidance on the circumstance in which court should seek pre - sentence report . let we be crystal clear : it be the last Conservative Government who endorse the idea that it be " particularly important " to request pre - sentence report for individual from ethnic , cultural or faith minority background and therefore , by extension of basic logic , less important for other group . the Sentencing Council have their answer : the then Conservative Government support its change . give what we have hear today , there must surely have be a flurry of opposition in certain quarter . what do the now shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) say about it at the time ? the answer be nothing . what do the Leader of the opposition say ? nothing . perhaps if they have bother to stand up and do their job , as Labour have today , these guideline would never have be issue in the first place . for all the failing of the last Conservative Government , many member be appal by the outright refusal of the Sentencing Council to amend the guideline when request to do so by the Justice Secretary . that refusal be the reason we find ourselves here today . far too much of the british state now appear to operate beyond the reach of those democratically elect to lead it . there be too many quango , too many faceless bureaucracy , too many lever of power seemingly detach from those whom the people have choose to govern they . the british public do not understand how a court can block the deportation of a convict criminal whom the Government wish to remove from the country . they do not understand how a Chancellor be constrain in his or her decision - making by the action of an unelected Office for Budget Responsibility , and they do not understand how a Justice Secretary can not simply prevent unequal treatment before the law . the Bill be the right response to this specific situation , but how long will it be before we find ourselves here again , in another stand - off with the Sentencing Council , over another issue on which unelected official clash with democratically accountable politician ? I believe that in the fullness of time — and I welcome what the Lord Chancellor say today about her further review — we will have to go far ; I believe that we should abolish the Sentencing Council altogether . what the Sentencing Council ludicrously propose be nothing short of two - tier justice : guideline which would mean that young black , asian or indeed other non - white offender could receive more lenient sentence than their white counterpart in exactly the same circumstance . let I be clear : justice must be equality before the law . as someone once say , " justice should not only be do , but … be see to be do " . it should not depend on your race , the colour of your skin , your culture or your religion . it be high time we remind the unelected , unaccountable , and quite frankly wake quango that equality mean treat everyone the same , and not create one rule for some and one rule for other . I be therefore glad that we have finally reach the Second reading of a Bill that will stop the madness espouse by this out - of - touch , " liberal dinner party set " advisory body . for far too long , body such as the Sentencing Council have be allow to rule the roost . Quangos of this kind — unserious and wasteful organisation — be cost the taxpayer more than £ 64 billion a year . Parliament must be sovereign , and should not continue to come up against a brick wall of regulatory and bureaucratic obstacle . I can not help have a sense of d é j à vu . I be sit in this very place well over a month ago when my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , the shadow Lord Chancellor , introduce legislation that would have prevent this slide into two - tier justice — and all the while , the Lord Chancellor allow the chairman of the Sentencing Council to effectively run ring around she , the Government and the will of the House . let we stop pretend : sadly , two - tier justice do exist , and the british people know it . let we look at the fact . People be be throw into jail for make stupid comment online , while groom gang be able to operate unchallenged because of a fear of cultural sensitivity . this be wrong , and the british people demand that it end now . however , it be not happen just in the court . police force in the UK have be catch block white applicant from job , and that be base not on ability but purely on the colour of their skin . how on earth do we get here ? this be the country of the Magna Carta , the birthplace of common law and some of the great legal mind that the world have ever see , yet we have enable an unelected quango to propose guideline that be openly discriminatory , and equality before the law have be replace by ideology over fairness . I call the shadow Minister . equality before the law be at the heart of the rule of law . as the great roman statesman Cicero say : " for right that be not open to all alike would be no right . " the revise guideline from the Sentencing Council fundamentally go against that important principle . to introduce a presumption that pre - sentence report would be require not necessarily because of a particular vulnerability of offender or circumstance relate to their offence , but because of the colour of their skin , the region of their ancestor ' origin or the religious belief that they hold be two - tier justice , no matter how laudable the intention . this be not about Court of Appeal judgment such as Thompson , which the Lord Chancellor refer to , and it be not about factor that could fundamentally change the effect of a particular judicial sentence on an offender , or factor relate directly to the circumstance of the offence . this be purely about those characteristic . my right hon . friend the shadow Lord Chancellor do a huge service to not only this House but our country when he raise this matter from the Dispatch Box on 5 March , because it be clear that the Lord Chancellor be completely blindside . neither she nor her Ministers know anything about the proposal . in fairness to the right hon . Lady , who be not in her seat at the moment , I be sure that she be as appal as we be at the idea that people should be treat differently purely because of their ethnicity , culture or religion . but this be a lacklustre Bill , which do the minimum need to clear up the immediate mess of this Government ' s make . [ interruption . ] as I say , it do the minimum necessary . it be well than nothing — it be a very small step in the right direction — but it do not go as far as the Government should to introduce the reform that be need . the right hon . Lady have be Lord Chancellor for eight month , but she have so little grip of her Department that she not only do nothing to stop the Sentencing Council ' s new guideline , but be not even aware of they . her representative have meet the Sentencing Council just two day early . what be they do at the Sentencing Council , if they be not there to stop such proposal ? how be the right hon . Lady run her Department , if she be not even inform of the new guideline ? the proposal have change during the process . the Lord Chancellor , unlike I and the Business Secretary , have actually be a practise lawyer . she will understand that there be a substantial difference between say that a pre - sentence report may be particularly important , and state , as a requirement , that such a report will normally be consider necessary , give the effect that statement have , and the trigger for appeal against sentence . those change be make almost at the point when the right hon . Lady become Lord Chancellor , yet eight month later , she have do nothing to stop they and be not even aware of they . this Bill stop only the narrow and bad aspect of the guideline from apply . if the Government be actually serious about take action , they could have do so much more quickly . they do not even need to take action ; an omission would have be sufficient . on 28 March , when my right hon . friend the shadow Lord Chancellor bring forward his private Member ' s Bill , all the Government Whips have to do be not shout " object " in order for it to go forward . it would have restore proper ministerial oversight and , through the Minister , parliamentary oversight over sentence guideline . that would have allow Parliament to take control of this fundamental matter . my hon . friend be right ; the issue be not just these guideline . in the last Parliament , we legislate to increase the maximum sentence for cause death by dangerous driving to life imprisonment , after an offender kill three member of my constituent ' s family and be give a sentence of only 10 and a half year . do my hon . friend agree that we need a broad power , so that where Parliament ' s intent be not recognise by the Sentencing Council , we can act ? clearly , Parliament need to have oversight of revision to sentence guideline , so that they reflect the will of Parliament . the Government fail to act and have now bring forward this lacklustre measure . in the past few month , my hon . and right hon . friend have uncover multiple instance of two - tier principle be apply to bail , probation and other judicial matter . this be not a one - off , or a whistleblowing " fix it and move on " situation ; it be systemic and endemic . we need much more radical reform than the Government be bring forward today . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I have to wrap up . when will the Government get serious , get a grip and put an end to this , once and for all ? I thank all right hon . and hon . member on both side of the House for their valuable contribution . I think what I hear at the end from the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) , be support for this Bill , and I thank he for that . today ' s debate have be helpful ; it have underscore the broad support for this legislation , and for the principle of equality before the law . many member — pretty much every Member who have speak — underline the importance of that principle . I be proud that my right hon . friend the Lord Chancellor act so swiftly to address this situation in a way that be courteous and respectful to all involve , and to get we to where we be today . while we have have much agreement , the Mother of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , for whom I have the high regard , announce herself as be in a minority of one . I be sure that be not the case , but she draw attention to her serious concern about disproportionality in the criminal justice system . I can say to she that we share her concern about disproportionality . that be why my right hon . friend the Lord Chancellor have announce a proper review of all the datum , so we will know what action will properly address that disproportionality and bring about change in a way that address the seriousness of the unfairness in the system to which she rightly refer . equality before the law be a fundamental principle of our criminal justice system . it be the Government ' s policy and belief that it should be protect . we know that more must be do to address inequality in the justice system , and we be absolutely committed to tackle racial disparity across the criminal justice system . we be also take step such as increase diversity in our staff and work with the judiciary to make sure that our appointment be reflective of the society we serve . that have include support under - represent group in join the judiciary and the magistrate , and have involve the Ministry of Justice and partner run widely support outreach programme to reduce barrier to individual join . however , we need to do much more . I commend my right hon . friend the Mother of the House for keep we on notice , and I promise she that we will deliver . the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , who speak for the Liberal Democrats , remind we , as indeed do my hon . friend the Member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) , that these guideline be nod through by the previous Conservative Government . the hon . member for Eastbourne also remind we of our inheritance of an underfunded probation and court system , which have lead , in his word , to a rationing of pre - sentence report . I agree with he that the debate should be about how we move to universality of pre - sentence report , not about rationing . of course , none of this debate alter the fact that independent judge can ask for pre - sentence report whenever they feel they be necessary . indeed , in her opening speech , the Lord Chancellor make it clear that capacity be be increase , quite properly , so that more pre - sentence report can be do . we have very helpful contribution from the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , and the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) . both of they draw attention to the importance of pre - sentence report in identify the most appropriate and effective sentence for individual offender . the Chair of the Select Committee give we the full timeline of this affair to date , and a good analysis of where we be with the Bill . I agree with he that we will have more opportunity to look at matter in detail in Committee . likewise , the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam draw attention to his concern about the breadth of the Bill . again , we will have an opportunity to examine they far in Committee . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) raise very serious concern about issue relate to pregnant woman , and be pleased that the Bill do not affect Court of Appeal case law in that respect . in fact , nothing in the Bill , as she helpfully remind the House , prevent judge from request psr for pregnant woman . judge will continue to be able to request psr in case where they ordinarily would , include appropriate case involve pregnant woman . we would expect that to continue . I be happy to have hear so much support for the Bill . there will be a drop - in for mps on Monday about the next stage of the Bill , at which member can have any question answer , and can feed into the process before Committee stage next week . this emergency legislation , while a small Bill , be of great significance . it will stop the Sentencing Council ' s update guideline on pre - sentence report from come into force , and will safeguard against the risk of differential treatment arise from their use . the action take by the Government on this issue underscore our commitment to equality before the law , which all hon . member who have speak today have underline , and which be most important . it be the ancient principle on which our justice system be build . I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Sentencing Guidelines ( Pre - sentence Reports ) bill : Programme Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Sentencing Guidelines ( Pre - sentence Reports ) bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after their commencement . ( 3 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion four hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 5 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . Petition - Water Quality on the River Yare I rise to present a petition about the water quality on the River Yare , and I hope the Government will take note of the 254 resident who have sign it . the signature be gather by resident of Bawburgh , who work hard to collect support from nearly every household in one of my picturesque South Norfolk village . this demonstrate the strength of feeling about the risk to both people and wildlife when our waterway be not properly protect . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of South Norfolk , Declares that the water quality on the River Yare be deeply concern , put wildlife and people at risk . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to clean up british waterway , call upon Anglian Water to uphold the high possible water quality level , and for the Environment Agency to provide resident with the information they need so they can enjoy the River Yare all year round . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ P003056 ] Coalfields Regeneration Trust Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) I want to start by acknowledge the death of the Holy Father yesterday . many people in Newcastle - under - Lyme , up and down the kingdom and across the world will be feel his death deeply . our thought be with the catholic community the world over , and all who admire he . this week , we mark St George ' s day 2025 . as I have say in this House before , I be proud of my Britishness and my englishness , and I say a very happy St George ' s day to my constituent back home in Newcastle - under - Lyme and to people right across England . the case for Government support for the Coalfields Regeneration Trust make itself . I want to start by thank all those at the trust for their work . support for the trust align very closely with the Government ' s priority for our country . the trust provide support to some of our most deprived community , and its work continue the legacy of the last Labour Government and the late former Deputy Prime Minister , Lord Prescott . as my hon . Friend say , John Prescott found the Coalfields Regeneration Trust under the previous Labour Government , championing community wealth building in former coalfield area like my constituency . I thank Richard Stevens and the CRT team , who run an excellent community health and employment programme in Meir , in my constituency , which help 19 people to secure full - time employment between April and September 2024 alone . will my hon . friend join I in recognise the critical work be do by the CRT in my constituency ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for intervention , not least because my wife and I be at Trentham Gardens in her patch at the weekend . I be very pleased she be the first person to intervene , and I agree wholeheartedly with her tribute . some 5 . 7 million people live in Britain ' s coalfield — one in 10 people in England and Scotland , and one in four in Wales . almost half of coalfield community — 43 % — be in the 30 % most deprived community in the United Kingdom . the number of health problem face by those in coalfield community be high than the national average . accord to the 2024 " State of the Coalfields " report , 7 % of all coalfield resident report bad or very bad health , and more than 10 % claim disability benefit — 7 . 7 % high than the UK average . as I have say in this House before , life expectancy be a year low than the UK average , too . I will turn now to the rate of growth in the number of job in coalfield community . the reality be that the Coalfields Regeneration Trust have an excellent record in the former coalfield community , particularly in relation to much - need job creation , as my hon . friend have just mention . do he agree that the UK Government should be look to review the support that be afford to the CRT before 2015 , which be similar to what be still happen in Scotland and Wales ? I agree , and I will make that specific request later in my remark . my hon . friend raise a very good point ; I join he in call on Government to step up and help to deliver for my constituent and his . I be sorry to say that I be not in his patch at the weekend , but I be look forward to an invitation before too long . the former coalfield have a job density of only 57 employee job per 100 working - age resident , compare with a national average of 73 per 100 and 88 per 100 in the main regional city . More than 18 . 7 % of people live in the coalfield — many of whom be represent by hon . member in the Chamber this evening — be class as economically inactive . that must change , and it form a key part of my focus as the Member of Parliament for Newcastle - under - Lyme . I thank my hon . friend for give way — we be near enough neighbour in our neck of the wood , aren ' t we ? we often see digital skill gap in area of deprivation . in Swadlincote , in my constituency , one in four child be live in poverty . it be an ex - mining community — that be deeply embed in who they be . do my hon . friend agree that when the Government be look at upskille for job for the future , they should prioritise ex - coalfield mining community ? I agree wholeheartedly with my hon . friend , and not for the first time . I would make that call not just for Derbyshire , but for Staffordshire , too . rise — the hon . member for Strangford , of course , want to intervene . the hon . Gentleman be fast make a name for himself in this House on behalf of his constituent for his assiduity and commitment , and we congratulate he on that . I make some inquiry back home before this debate — and I be speak to he yesterday — about those who give so much for the energy need of the nation and for the industry in my town of Newtownards . the coal use by those who own the shop in Newtownards for many year , way back when coal be the main source of energy , come from the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , so he have a close relationship with we from that point of view . do he agree that it be past time that the Government help to address the imbalance and disadvantage to ensure that the people in his constituency be reward for their hard work over all those year ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that intervention . my wife be from Northern Ireland , so when he say he be make inquiry , I be worried how far that be go to go . he raise a very important point , both about the power of british coal and the importance of Newcastle - under - Lyme for many part of our United Kingdom . to follow the point make by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , it be about not just the contribution that those community make to our energy need , but the pride that those community have in the work that they do . one of the successful part of the Coalfields Regeneration Trust ' s work , certainly in North Staffordshire , have be allow the community who have so much take from they with the closure of the pit to restore some of that by control their own destiny and the sort of regeneration that come , include through the industrial unit that we now have near Silverdale in his constituency . that be do by John Prescott and the Coalfields Regeneration Trust and it have allow community to once again have pride in where they live and what they do . this work be do with they , rather than to they . when the Minister respond , could he say something about how the next stage of work in the coalfield community could be do with the community , rather than to they ? I think we would all be interested in that . my hon . friend and neighbour make the important point that this be about pride , power and people . the soon we see the Government respond positively to his call and to the call of many on the Labour Benches , the well . wage in the former coalfield community be 6 % to 7 % low than the national average . there be a shortage of quality job , as we have hear , lead to a brain drain , as working - age resident with degree - level qualification leave to find job elsewhere . this be a dangerous cycle ; our young people be force to leave their community to find the good job . it leave community like mine lose out not just on economic growth , but on the energy and dynamism that young people bring to the job market . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate . do he agree that it be imperative that the Government stand firm on their agenda to invest in green industry ? member on the Opposition Benches , who I notice be not in their place tonight , want to cancel that green agenda , which will not just cancel opportunity for coalfield like our to re - industrialise and provide those high - skilled , high - wage job of the future , but jeopardise the opportunity for this country as a whole to have cheap and more secure energy . my hon . friend make a very good point and I agree with she wholeheartedly . it say a lot that people who have be mouth off in recent week and month be miss in action this evening . the 2024 " State of the Coalfields " report find that , " if the coalfield have be a region in their own right , all cluster together in one corner of the country , the statistic would probably show they to be the most deprive region in the United Kingdom . " that be unacceptable and it say a lot . it would be the responsibility of any Government of this country to address this disparity , but for a Labour Government , it must be our duty to do so . our movement be bear in the coalfield , ensure that community like mine in Newcastle - under - Lyme could prosper and thrive , while make sure that local people have a fair go , as my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) allude to . that be why , in 1999 , the last Labour Government set up the Coalfields Regeneration Trust . it be create to support the regeneration of coalfield community , and it do just that . since 1999 , the CRT have help 26 , 332 people into work , create and safeguard 5 , 174 job , and help 341 , 871 people to improve their health and wellbeing . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests ; I be a manager at the CRT . every week , I see at first hand the positive impact that the CRT have have in our community . it have be instrumental in develop after - school care and breakfast club in Drongan , one of the most deprived area in East Ayrshire . it have help to support family into work and provide healthy food option . do my hon . friend agree that , with the support of the UK Government , the Coalfields Regeneration Trust , which be already embed in our coalfield community , be well place to provide health and wellbeing project , particularly for young people , such as after - school care club , employability scheme and weekend support session ? how lucky be we to have my hon . friend ' s experience and background on these Benches ? I defer to she both in term of her commitment to the cause and her experience of stand up for the very people that we on the Government Benches be here to speak up for this evening . if these theme sound familiar it be because they closely align , as my hon . friend have say , with the priority of this Labour Government : to improve our national health ; to get Britain work again ; to improve our skill provision ; and to ensure that people can get and stay in stable , well - pay and fulfilling work . will my hon . friend give way ? I will happily give way to another Staffordshire man . I thank my hon . friend from the great county of Staffordshire . the Coalfields Regeneration Trust do great work in my constituency , work alongside some charity in Chasetown to employ a counsellor to support people back into work . do he agree that much of the work that we need to do on regeneration be not about building , but about the people who work in those building ? it be about respect the contribution that those community have make and make sure that they have the support they need to be able to contribute in the future . I be grateful for the intervention from my hon . friend , , who have a much well head of hair than his predecessor — and it be his . he make a very good point . as I say to my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central , pride , power and people must drive we as we move forward . despite 15 year of Conservative - lead government fail the CRT and , by extension , our coalfield community , the CRT have still manage to create an asset base worth £ 55 . 5 million , support almost 3 , 500 job . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . the Coalfields Regeneration Trust have an innovative approach to its financial model . it develop new industrial unit for small and medium - sized enterprise and start - up business . this , importantly , create new business community , which fuel local economy . moreover , it provide the Coalfields Regeneration Trust with income - produce investment , help to underwrite its financial stability . my hon . friend make a very good point . she speak to the cross - nation commitment to this issue , and about the many people who live in , work in and benefit from the potential in our coalfield community . do my hon . friend agree that one of the huge benefit of the trust have be its investment in project support young people in our coalfield community ? although the Scottish Government have provide continued support to the trust , that support have decline in monetary value over the past decade . that represent an opportunity cost for vital project for coalfield community , include in my constituency . as we be urge the Government here to ensure that support be adequate for the trust , do my hon . friend agree that the same principle apply to Scotland as well ? my hon . friend raise a very good point . I suspect that the reason he be here , join by many Labour colleague from Scotland , be that the SNP Government be find want on a number of issue . thank to this Labour Government ' s Budget , at the end of last year Scotland have an increase in the last financial year of £ 1 . 5 billion . there be no excuse for they not to turn up and do the job properly . I feel sure that my hon . friend , alongside many other , will be hold the SNP Government to account . I have see the positive impact of the CRT at work in my constituency . fourteen local organisation be part of the free membership programme CRT Support , include charity I have work closely with , such as the excellent Tri Services and Veterans Support Centre right in the heart of Newcastle - under - Lyme . my hon . friend and constituency neighbour be make an excellent case about the work of the Coalfields Regeneration Trust in Newcastle - under - Lyme . in Stoke - on - Trent North , in partnership with Stoke City Community Trust , the CRT deliver the " Game on " football project for 11 to 18 - year - old at Norton cricket club . do my hon . friend agree that the CRT play a critical role in provide positive opportunity for young people , not only locally but across the country , and that it deserve Government support ? my other constituency neighbour raise a very good point — how many neighbour do my hon . friend have ? I have seven neighbour — almost all Labour now , which be marvellous . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) raise a powerful point and speak to the CRT ' s reach up and down the country , not least in north Staffordshire . I congratulate my good and hon . friend on secure the debate , and echo the point that he be make . in my constituency of Easington in County Durham , the CRT work with 54 grassroot organisation , tackle health inequality , and skill and employment challenge , in some of the most leave - behind coalfield community anywhere in the country . I echo the call that have be make by my hon . friend and other Labour colleague to reinstate the national Government funding . I also point out respectfully to the Minister that there be huge support on the Labour Benches for that ; almost 50 Labour mp have sign early - day motion 965 in my name back this modest but vital investment . I urge the Minister to recognise the depth of support for this proposal among coalfield Labour MPs . I be grateful for that intervention from the dean of the coalfield community . my hon . friend work tirelessly on this issue and demonstrate by his leadership that it be one for all and all for one ; I thank he for his work . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) touch on " CRT game on " , which do a tremendous amount of work in Newcastle - under - Lyme as well as in Stoke - on - Trent North . I think in particular about what it be do with our local club , Newcastle Town FC , where it plan to introduce free , weekly , structured turn - up - and - play football session for 11 to 18 - year - old in Knutton in the heart of Newcastle - under - Lyme , where the excellent Bayley Dickin be stand for Labour in the by - election on Thursday 1 May . I be sure that Labour colleague will wish he well in that election . it will be the CRT that will provide the funding for the Newcastle Town coach to deliver those session , and it will be the CRT that will enable young people in my constituency to access good - quality sport provision , no matter their background . will my hon . friend recognise the work that the CRT be do in my constituency ? adjacent to the leafy suburb that surround Glasgow there be coalfield , and those be the area of deprivation . in particular , the CRT be do work in Waterside to support the local community to re - establish the miner ' welfare , which fall into disrepair , as a new community hub , engage all that work in the constituency and the supporter ’ club to do that . I thank my hon . friend , who represent Cumbernauld — and the rest of her constituency — in Scotland : a great part of our United Kingdom . she raise a powerful yet basic point : the CRT do amazing work in all part of our country . it be no surprise that the Whip on duty be my hon . friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Aberdare ( Gerald Jones ) , who similarly represent coalfield community — I suspect that he would be speak , be he allow to . I feel sure that the Minister , in his upcoming meeting with the CRT , will hear that it be seek the reinstatement of UK Government support to enable it to keep do what it do and to scale up its model with a proposal of capital investment of £ 50 million over a five - year period , equate obviously to £ 10 million a year . that would generate additional long - term sustainable funding of £ 3 . 5 million to £ 4 million , which would be invest to benefit people live in coalfield community such as mine . I support those call . let we be clear : that be an ask not for grant funding but for investment in coalfield community and in people like my constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme . I know that it be one that will pay off . the CRT have prove time and again across 25 year that it be a wealth generator . its community wealth building model have deliver growth in the coalfield community that Labour member represent . with support from the Government , it will continue to do so . rise — I will happily give way to another Staffordshire colleague . I thank my hon . friend for give way , particularly give that he be another Staffordshire MP . as he have hear I say before , the Museum of Cannock Chase in my constituency , which be primarily focused on mining heritage , be due to close by the end of the month . I be work hard alongside the Chase heritage group to rescue it . the Coalfields Regeneration Trust be take an active interest in the effort . do my hon . friend agree that the CRT do fantastic work in preserve and celebrate our mining heritage ? as you can see , Madam Deputy Speaker , team Staffordshire hunt as a pack . my hon . friend make a good point . the Government pride themselves on ensure that the taxpayer get the good value for money , and I , like all Labour Members , agree with that wholeheartedly . every penny of the £ 50 million that we be ask for will be invest back into the service of work people . how much more positive could that be ? if the CRT be a stock , investor would be climb over each other to buy it . but it be not a stock ; it be a service set up by a Labour Government to provide a public good , and it be a service that the Government must support . the funding stream would be invest in the most deprived coalfield community and the more than 900 grassroot organisation that the CRT currently work with , help the Government to deliver their plan for neighbourhood by create safe , strong and more prosperous community . this be the first Labour Government to have win an election since the Tories cut funding to the CRT — a Labour policy that the Conservatives scrap . the Government have already show that they will do the right thing by coalfield community . they have already do work to address the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme , and I hope that they will act on the British Coal staff superannuation scheme before too long . too many people in coalfield community have lose faith in politic and our collective ability to do anything for they . after 15 year of be let down by consecutive conservative Governments , who could blame they for think that way ? this be an opportunity to show those people — our people — what Government can do . it be a time to show they that thing can change . the creation of the CRT by a Labour Government make I proud . it be what Labour government be here to do — it be in our dna . I accept that the Minister may not be able to make a financial announcement tonight , although he will be very welcome if he choose to . hon . member will believe I when I say that I make the case to the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , my right hon . friend the Member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , when he come to Newcastle - under - Lyme before Easter , but I hope the Minister will pass all our comment and intervention up to his ministerial colleague . by support the CRT in coalfield community such as mine , this Government will continue to make I proud and , most importantly , will help I deliver for my constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme and people live in coalfield community up and down our United Kingdom . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for secure this debate and for raise not just the challenge face by coalfield community , but the exceptional work do by the Coalfields Regeneration Trust in support they . I be always cautious . indeed , when I be wait for this debate I have a couple of email from constituent , to which I reply that they should not measure the interest in Parliament always by the presence in Parliament . however , this be a rather exceptional turnout for an Adjournment debate at the end of the day . that show the strength of feeling , and my hon . friend have clearly pick an issue about which people feel strongly . he and other colleague have make very thoughtful comment about the challenge face our coalfield community , what have work to improve they and what might work in future . my hon . friend excellently set out the challenge face community such as his and mine . the history be well potted but I think it bear repeat . just two year , 1985 and 1986 , see one third of pit close , include many where my constituent work . by 1994 , with the industry privatise , only 26 mine be operational out of more than 200 at the beginning of the ' 80 . employment in coalmining plummet to just 7 , 000 and the socioeconomic impact of those closure , especially at the community level , have be profound . it be important that we understand that in context : there be few , if any , more striking example of chronic job loss in western Europe , with nearly all the burden carry by a few local area and a specific segment of the workforce . that speak to why we still have those challenge , which be feel then and which echo , in many case for decade , down the generation , with coalfield community face poor health outcome , a shortage of quality job and social dislocation . as I say , I know that because it be my community too , and I feel the same strength and vigour as my colleague about want to change that . in seek to address those challenge , we should be proud , as my hon . Friend say , that the previous Labour Government establish the Coalfields Regeneration Trust , an independent charity design to fund project that would increase access to employment opportunity , education and skill training , and improve health and wellbee in community , alongside develop enterprise . as colleague have say , the result have be very good . my hon . Friend mention the former Deputy Prime Minister , John Prescott — and boy , do we miss John . but you , Madam Deputy Speaker , will probably not thank I for also refer to another John , my right hon . friend the Member for Rawmarsh and Conisbrough ( John Healey ) , who be instrumental in set that up . as Parliament ' s lead Healey - ista , I can say that it be another example of he be prove right and the thing that he have put in place have stand the test of time . it be a testament to the organisation that when funding be end in 2015 and there be a transition to £ 30 million of revenue funding and £ 22 million of capital funding , the CRT put that money to work , build industrial development to support grow small and medium - sized enterprise and bring economic growth to area that have be experience market failure . since 2015 , the value of that original capital investment have double to create an asset base worth £ 55 . 5 million , support 3 , 500 job . on top of that , the rental income from those industrial development provide a self - sustain revenue stream to support coalfield community , generate £ 21 . 5 million of revenue for the CRT and the more than 850 community organisation it work with in order to address the social and economic challenge face their community . as my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme say , the CRT ' s investment in 2023 - 24 alone help 70 , 000 people tackle their health , skill and employment issue . the case be very well make and I look forward to talk over this matter and the letter with Andy Lock and his colleague . I can safely say , give that I think every person in this Chamber have write to I on this matter , that the case be very well make . as my hon . Friend hint , I can not run ahead of spend review plan , but I can assure he that the idea be be take very seriously because I know that the good people at CRT and the organisation they work with put their boot on every day to change their community in a positive way , and we be very lucky to have they . in the spirit of what my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) say , I want to mention the context in which we want the CRT to operate , and how we want it to change . I forget the three word that my hon . Friend use about power , but I think what I be about to say be very much in line with that . this Government , and the Prime Minister from day one , have promise a shift of power and resource from this place to local community . these be proud community . in my community we be proud that we power the nation , and we be angry at the challenge we face . we have all the idea and the insight we need to change it , but we just need the power and resource . that be the job of this Government . I could speak all day about what we be do on devolution , but across our country , include in coalfield community , and with more to come in Cumbria , Cheshire and Warrington , we be give that power to local community to help they shape their place . there be also a place for localise place - base funding intervention , and one that have age particularly well — another John Prescott innovation — be the new deal for community . we have start in that direction through our plan for neighbourhood , which be a long - term commitment to community to shift resource to they , and to give they that stability of long - term funding , back by the support of central Government , and empower they to take ownership of drive forward the renewal of their neighbourhood . we be learn so much from what have work , and the CRT will offer a great partnership with the coalfield community who be the recipient of our plan for neighbourhood . those include 15 coalfield community , include Mansfield , Doncaster , and Wrexham . as my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme rightly say , our hon . friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Aberdare ( Gerald Jones ) , the Whip on duty , would be speak for the people of Merthyr . he have be a terrific advocate for Merthyr and its plan for neighbourhood . those area deserve that money and that support , and go forward we know that there need to be great support for coalfield community across the country . one way that we can ensure that the mistake of the past four decade and the lack of opportunity for some coalfield community can be change be through local growth plan — time be short , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I do not want to miss this point . we have work hard with the devolve Mayors to come up with plan for their economic future . my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) mention green industry and those huge opportunity , and I suspect we will see they as a feature of those plan . our commitment to those community be clear : they should come forward with their local growth plan , and we will ensure that in their aggregate they be link through to an industrial strategy that change the economy in this country . I talk about the loss of job in my community in the ' 80 , and the great tragedy be the absolute absence of effort to replace they . it mean that a Labour Government have to come along many year later , and it mean that fantastic organisation such as the CRT have to pick up the piece . well , we will not do that . our industrial strategy will be build on get Britain build again , get Britain make again , and on give our proud community the opportunity to again have the skilled labour that build they in the past and will build they again . this debate be of course relate to our past and our proud industrial heritage , but it be also a debate about the future — I know that because I feel I have perhaps the most intimidating group of people here to try to mug I for my dinner money on the way out , so it be very much in my future . the case have be exceptionally well make by my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme , and I thank he for do so . the case have be make strongly by colleague in intervention , in correspondence , and in an early - day motion — my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) ask I every day about that , and his major criticism be that he think it be at least one zero short . I be surprised not to hear he say that , but I know colleague will keep support that , and we will engage seriously with the CRT . we know how much it do and can do for our community across the country , and I look forward to work with it in the future . question put and agree to . House adjourn .