Oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — alcohol - dependent parent : support for Children what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to support the child of alcohol - dependent parent . may I start by wish the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) a speedy recovery ? we be take a wide - range approach to alcohol harm . some £ 27 million have be invest in specialist alcohol care team in a quarter of hospital with the high need , and we have publish the first ever UK - wide clinical guideline on harmful drinking and alcohol dependence , as well as provide around £ 300 million in funding to 75 local authority through the family hub and start for life programme . family hub fund through that programme be encourage to provide full wrap - around support for family , which may include alcohol support service . to the Government ' s credit , they be currently put money into addiction service . however , at the same time , there be no national strategy for child of alcohol - dependent parent . that have not always be the case . between 2017 and 2021 , there be local and national helpline service fund through a national strategy . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss this matter , as the child in these awful situation be some of the most vulnerable in society ? may I thank my hon . friend for her care and also for share her experience on this subject ? through the drug strategy , we have commit an extra £ 532 million of funding over three year to improve alcohol and drug treatment service , with £ 15 . 7 million invest in Lancashire . last year , we see a furth £ 2 . 8 million invest nationally in line with guidance for the extra drug strategy funding , which allow local authority to fund target service for parent in need of treatment and support for their child and family . I will , of course , be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss this far . rise — Barry Sheerman , briefly — [ Laughter . ] I have turn over a new leaf , Mr Speaker . may I urge the Secretary of State to take this issue very seriously , to direct much more social medium at young people and to get into school the message about the real damage that can be do to the entire life of a child if the mother be drink alcohol during pregnancy ? I thank the hon . gentleman for bring some insight into how we can well reach family . of course , it be not just mum , but father or carer who can have a huge impact on our child . that be why the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , be invest so much energy and commitment in our family hub . we believe that they can be the centre for family to make the very good start to a child ' s life . hospital discharge : Social Care what recent progress her Department have make on support the timely discharge of patient from hospital into social care . discharge people on time be well for they and free up hospital bed . we be change how our health system work to do that : join up health and social care and care transfer hub ; help people to recover at home , with more than 10 , 000 new virtual ward bed ; and invest in social care . and it be work . last month , delay discharge be down 9 % compare with the end of December 2022 despite almost 1 , 000 extra urgent admission to hospital every day in December . nearly one in six bed in my local healthcare trust in Buckinghamshire continue to be occupy by patient fit for discharge . a recent King ' s Fund report find that the Government ' s current practice of provide one - off funding to reduce delay , while welcome , come with insufficient advance notice to allow for effective planning . what step be the Minister ' s Department take to ensure the good use of this funding ? one reason we distribute discharge funding back in April last year be to give more advance notice to organisation , so that they could put in place what be need to speed up discharge . I say to the hon . Lady that our plan be work . that be why , in her own trust , discharge at the end of December be down by a third compare with the previous year . I note the progress that my hon . friend reference , but delay discharge be still a major issue . patient flow through a hospital be a critical factor , especially at the front door through emergency department . we know the role that electronic bed management system can play in help that flow . what step be my hon . friend take to ensure that more hospital roll out that technology ? my hon . friend be right . I know how much work he do when he have oversight of urgent and emergency care service , which include his contribution to our urgent and emergency care recovery plan that be publish almost a year ago . that plan include a host of step to improve the flow through hospital , include investment in bed management system , as he describe . the plan be work , which be why we be improve the flow through hospital and see reduction in delay discharge . nurse from Overseas what step she be take to increase the recruitment of qualified nurse from overseas . nhs datum show that we have deliver early on our manifesto commitment to have an extra 50 , 000 nhs nurse , with the number of nurse work in our NHS increase from around 301 , 000 in 2019 to 357 , 000 today . that have be achieve through boost training and education route , ethically recruit internationally and take action to improve retention . measure such as the health and care visa introduce in 2020 support international recruitment . I thank the Minister for his answer . as he know , the national health service would completely collapse without the input and expertise of clinical staff from around the world . one barrier to those people come to help we be the high fee for apply for permanent residency . some nurse from country such as India and the Philippines be have to take out expensive loan just to feel like they be welcome and able to stay in our country . I have present a private Member ' s Bill to exempt NHS clinical staff from pay those high fee to become resident . will the Minister support the Bill and work with his Home Office colleague to find a way to make that a reality for those people who work so hard in our health service ? I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the enormous contribution make by internationally recruit staff to our NHS . as he will know , immigration policy and fee be a matter for my right hon . friend the Home Secretary . however , our long - term workforce plan support international recruitment . in addition to the new visa route , we be exempt health and care staff from the immigration health surcharge . the Minister will know that without our fantastic workforce , the NHS would not work . I pay tribute to all those hard - work nurse in all our hospital and care centre , include at St Thomas ' Hospital in my constituency . do the Minister recognise that in addition to recruiting staff we have to look at retain staff , who talk about the workload , their mental wellbeing and the fact that the cost of living be have a big impact on they ? do the Minister agree that the Government need to come forward with a wide - range plan on address workforce planning , pay , training , staff wellbeing and retention ? I completely agree with the hon . Lady , which be why this Government become the first Government ever to introduce a long - term workforce plan . retention be one of the key pillar of the long - term workforce plan , and we be already see that deliver the result of keep more staff in our NHS . accessibility to Dental Services if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of the level of accessibility to dental appointment on urgent dental and oral surgery service . what recent step she have take to increase capacity in NHS dental care . what progress she have make on introduce a dentistry recovery plan . I be determined to ensure that everybody who need NHS dental care can receive it . we have already implement a package of reform to improve access and provide fairer remuneration for dentist . that have have an effect , with 1 . 7 million more adult be see , 800 , 000 more child be see and a 23 % increase in NHS activity in the past year . we know we need to do much more , and our dentistry recovery plan will be publish shortly , set out a big package of change . I listen carefully to what the Minister say . that change have not come to Oxfordshire , for sure — it be in a dire state . an Oxford resident write to I say that when his NHS practice close , he ring a dozen other across the county . each one say they be offer NHS service but , in fact , they be not ; they be only offer private care . in this cost of living crisis , people simply can not afford that . as a result , they be wait in A & E rather than get treatment , and that end up in their have oral surgery . what be the Minister do now to improve the situation in Oxfordshire and across the country ? I be incredibly sympathetic to what the hon . Lady say . in fact , in Buckinghamshire , Oxfordshire and Berkshire West integrate care board , the number of adult see by an NHS dentist rise in the 24 month to June 2023 from 448 , 000 to 485 , 000 , with a similar increase in the percentage of child see . the situation be improve , but I completely agree with she that we need to do more , and we will be come forward shortly with a big package of dental recovery plan reform . I thank my right hon . friend for her answer . follow my very productive meeting with she only a few day ago , will she confirm that NHS England locally have finally be unblocked and that my constituent in Clacton will soon benefit from more dentist practise on NHS patient ? as my hon . friend will know , this be a local matter , and it be for his ICB to determine whether it wish to support the excellent pilot proposal for overseas dental student in Clacton . at the same time , it need to ensure that its action be compliant with current legislation and within the delegation agreement with NHS England . I have just write to my hon . friend about that , and my letter should address his concern , but of course I would be happy to see he again if he have any further question . we be promise " before the summer " , we be promise " after the summer " , we be promise " before Christmas " , we be promise " soon " and now we have be promise " shortly " . the reality be that Labour have a plan and the Government have not . in York , we can not get an NHS dentist either . Blossom Family Dental Care be just hand back its contract . my constituent have nowhere to go . what be the Minister go to do to ensure that my constituent can access NHS dentistry ? as I say to the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , I absolutely understand the challenge for some people . the situation have improve over the last year . since the covid pandemic , where almost every dentist have to stop work altogether , we have not see the recovery we want . we be put in plan — not a paper ambition like the one Labour have put forward , but significant reform that will enable many more people to be see by NHS dentist . I say gently to the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) that a recent Health Service Journal article state that Humber and North Yorkshire ICB " have indicate in board paper that dentistry funding will be squeeze to help they balance their book . " I encourage she to talk to her ICB about that too . for new patient , access an NHS dentist in Peterborough be almost impossible . should a new medical centre wish to establish a new NHS dental practice , do so would require flexibility in unit of dental activity rate and the ability to recruit dentist from overseas . would the Minister give that effort her enthusiastic support and encourage NHS boss to do the same ? my hon . friend be push against an open door . he may be aware that in 2023 we make some legislative change to give the General Dental Council more flexibility to expand the registration option open to international dentist , triple the capacity of three sitting of the overseas registration exam from August 2023 and increase the number of sitting for the part 2 exam in 2024 from three to four . [ Official Report , 23 February 2024 , Vol . 745 , c . 14mc . ] ( Correction ) that will create an additional 1 , 300 place overall for overseas dentist aim to work in the UK . we will also be bring forward measure to enable dental therapist to work at the top of their training , which will expand the capacity . he be right that reform of the UDA be also require and we will be bring forward our plan shortly . I call the shadow Minister . I want to share with Ministers the experience of Emma from Grimsby , who say : " nhs dentistry be a joke in the town at the moment . thankfully I manage to get an emergency appointment in Scunthorpe ( after be offer one in Doncaster originally ) and I ' ve now be refer to hospital to have 3 wisdom tooth remove . my dentist close at the onset of the pandemic and I ' ve not be able to register with an NHS dentist since . " what do the Minister have to say to Emma and the million like she who can not get an appointment when they need one ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to point that out . Emma have my absolute sympathy and apology for the fact that since the covid pandemic we have not see the recovery of dentistry that we would have like . I can tell she that in July 2022 we bring in significant reform to encourage dentist to take on more NHS patient , but we recognise the need to do more . the long - term workforce plan will increase training place and the overseas registration will improve capacity , as will the change to dental therapist ' programme . all those thing will improve the situation , but in the meantime we will be bring forward our recovery plan very soon , which will immediately expand the incentive to nhs dentist . nhs : Winter Pressures what step her Department be take to help reduce pressure on NHS service in winter 2023 - 24 . our plan include open 5 , 000 more bed , increase ambulance capacity , expand innovative service such as virtual ward and bring forward covid and flu vaccination for the most vulnerable . thank to the hard work of staff , NHS performance this winter have improve on last year , despite the impact of industrial action . I be sure the caveat to that be the word " shortly " . I have have constituent contact I in desperation regard delay at Pinderfields Hospital in my constituency . they tell I they have wait hour in emergency care this winter for routine blood test — literally all day in some case — even while in extremely poor health . the Tories ' patchwork reform and stick - plaster politic be not fool anyone . do the Secretary of State not think that those dangerously long waiting time be a damn indictment of 14 year of conservative mismanagement ? what do she say to my constituent who be suffer right now ? I be sure that the hon . Gentleman be a fair man , and that , be so , he will point out to his constituent , when they call he with their issue , that ambulance response time for category 2 emergency incident in his local area have in fact be over 30 minute fast than last year . however , we accept of course that this be a two - year plan and will take time to meet our full ambition . interestingly , the late figure show that we have provide £ 6 . 9 million from the community diagnostic centre fund for the development of a community diagnostic centre at Wakefield . presumably he welcome that conservative innovation . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . the pressure on service be acute this winter , as it be every year . so far , we have hear very little mention in these 20 minute of the big headache face trust , integrate care board , patient and , of course , the Prime Minister ' s pledge to cut the waiting list far . give that the British Medical Association ballot on consultant ' action close today , and that the dispute among doctor in training continue , can the Secretary of State update the House on her message to those voting today , and on where we be in wide industrial dispute , which be a drag anchor on the NHS right now ? my hon . friend be right to point out that we be in the final few hour of the consultant ' ballot on the pay reform programme that we have offer the British Medical Association . I very much hope that consultant will feel able to support that programme , because it be about bring together the frankly quite bureaucratic system that they have to deal with at the moment , so that they be assess in a short time with less bother and paperwork , while respect their need to train and keep up their education and support professional activity commitment . I hope that they will agree with we on that . as I have say to the junior doctor committee from this Dispatch Box , should they return with reasonable expectation , we will , of course , reopen negotiation . I call the shadow Minister . the Secretary of State have say that preparation for winter start last January , but 54 % of A & E department be still rate inadequate or need improvement in December , exacerbate the winter crisis . what will she do differently this year to ensure that we do not have another winter crisis in 2024 - 25 ? again , the plan that we lay out last year be have a real impact at local level on the service be deploy through our accident and emergency service . we have see discharge rate improve , for example . we appreciate that there can be local difference , but the importance that we put on maintain that flow through hospital be critical to ensure that the waiting list and wait time that the hon . Lady describe be reduce . however , I gently remind the Labour party that it have be run the NHS in Wales for some time now , and it be a great shame that the good people of Wales — [ interruption . ] the good people of Wales be wait long for their treatment — [ interruption . ] they be almost twice as likely — order . I be a little bother , because we have a long way to go on the Order Paper . I call the SNP spokesperson . we can not discuss winter pressure in the NHS without acknowledge workforce shortage . the Secretary of State be have to contend with new immigration policy from her Cabinet colleague that prevent dependant from come to the UK , mean that we be ask people to come and care for our love one while they leave behind theirs . I imagine that she be frustrate that that be now another barrier to recruit staff to our health and care sector . have she express those frustration to her Cabinet colleague ? I genuinely want to work with the Scottish Government , because I be troubled , to put it bluntly , that Scotland have some of the bad health outcome in western Europe . it have the bad level of drug death rate in Europe , the high alcohol death rate in 14 year , and there be a fall in life expectancy for three year in a row . we offer to allow scottish patient to receive lifesave operation in England , but sadly , that offer have be decline . I remain genuinely willing to work with the Scottish Government to help they with their health service . child and Adolescent Mental Health Services what step she be take to increase access to child and adolescent mental health service . we be invest an extra £ 2 . 3 billion a year to expand mental health service in England , with the aim of enable 2 million more people to access mental health support , include 345 , 000 more child and young people . many constituent in Tamworth be come to I in desperate need of support for their child . those constituent include Kate , whose daughter be at crisis point and have be without a psychiatrist since November ; Roger , who have be wait 18 month for an autism referral for his daughter ; and Jess , who have be wait for an attention deficit hyperactivity disorder assessment for her son . will the Minister explain what action she be take so that child , parent and family in my constituency can get the support they need ? through the investment we be put in , particularly in the hon . Lady ' s local area , there be a number of initiative to help support child and young people with their mental health . the Sandbox scheme , which be a fund NHS service , support those in the south Staffordshire area ; Malachi provide family support across Tamworth and east Staffordshire ; and Combined Wellbeing , which be an online resource , cover north Staffordshire . there be also the Family Wellbeing Service , Action for child for those age five to 18 with mild to moderate mental health need , and the Staffordshire Emotional Health and Wellbeing Service for those aged five to 18 . I would recommend that the hon . Lady ' s constituent look up those service , because we be fund they to improve mental health care for child in her local area . the agony and damage of undiagnosed and untreated mental health condition be nowhere more acute than in rural area , where we see an epidemic of silent suffering . the Norfolk and Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust have long struggle with a series of management problem . I be sure the Minister have see the recent report highlight that between 2019 and 2022 , we see over 8 , 500 avoidable death — that be nearly 45 a week . will she agree to meet I , other Norfolk and Suffolk mp , and those affect to look at what be really go on here and make sure that we turn that trust into a beacon of the good mental health service , rather than the bad ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . we be hold regular meeting with Norfolk and Suffolk MPs , the trust , the Care Quality Commission and NHS England , and with the new management team , that trust do appear to finally be turn thing around . however , I be concerned to hear the point that my hon . friend have raise . I be very happy to restart those meeting and will ask my office to arrange they as quickly as possible . Adult Social Care what step she be take to increase staff recruitment and retention in the adult social care sector . care be a skilled profession , and I want care worker to get the support and recognition they deserve . this month , we take the next step in our ambitious care workforce reform , publish the first ever national career structure for the care workforce alongside our new nationally recognise care qualification . ambitious care workforce reform — it be all blah , isn ' t it ? we have have 14 year of Conservative Government , and we have a crisis in every area of the NHS . Job insecurity , poor working condition and low pay — one in five care worker be live in poverty — be all reason why we have a recruitment and retention crisis in social care . be not the truth that that be a damn indictment of 14 year of Conservative Government , and the only thing that be go to sort out social care and the crisis in recruitment and retention be a general election ? I be actually really shock by the way the hon . Member refer to the care workforce , with term like " it be all blah " — very shocking . I be determined that care worker should get the recognition they deserve . we have a 10 - year plan for social care , and it be work : the care workforce grow by over 20 , 000 last year , vacancy in social care be down , and retention be up . we be reform social care so that it work as a career . that be why , as I say a moment ago — I wish the hon . Member have be listen — we have introduce the first ever career pathway for social care worker and a new national care qualification . I call the shadow Minister . but accord to Care England and Hft , 54 % of social care provider have increase their reliance on agency staff ; 44 % have turn down new admission ; and 18 % have have to close service altogether . labour ' s fair pay agreement will ensure that staff in the sector be treat with the dignity and respect that will make they want to stay , but after 14 year , why do Ministers not have a proper plan to address the workforce crisis face adult social care ? be it because it be a crisis of their making ? we have a plan for the social care workforce , and it be work . the social care workforce increase by over 20 , 000 last year , and it be still go up . but I will take no lecture from the hon . member . in fact , his hon . friend the Member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) , early this morning on television , make it clear that Labour do not have a plan for social care — or if it do , it be clear that it will cost a lot of money and be yet another unfunded labour plan . man ' s Health what step she be take to help improve man ' s health . I assure my right hon . friend that this Government be commit to improve man ' s health . that be why , in November , we announce a suite of measure , include a £ 16 million fund for a new prostate cancer screening trial , and the recruitment of a man ' s health ambassador . we have also launch our man ' s health taskforce to tackle the big health issue face man . I thank the Minister for that answer , and I would urge she to continue to make man ' s health a top priority . in particular , can she look at how we can detect prostate cancer well and soon ? it be the most common cause of male cancer in the United Kingdom , and anything that can be do to reduce that number will be most welcome . I thank my right hon . friend and male colleague on the Government Benches , include my hon . friend the Member for Don Valley ( Nick Fletcher ) , who be fight so hard to improve man ' s health . he be absolutely right : 12 , 000 man a year die from prostate cancer . that be why we be invest in the £ 16 million prostate cancer trial call Transform , use method such as MRI to detect prostate cancer rather than PSA , which can be inaccurate . thousand of man will be recruit . we be hope that the trial will start in the spring , with recruitment in the autumn , include the recruitment of black man , who be disproportionately affect by prostate cancer . do the Minister agree , however , that the information she have just give about why screen for prostate cancer do not happen for man be base on a study that be 20 year old ? there be 12 , 000 death a year — it be the big killer among man , and the second big killer among all people — yet here be this evil cancer for which there be no screening programme whatsoever . will she take step to update current NHS guidance to ensure that all those at high risk of prostate cancer receive a targeted early detection service ? I think she have hint that she may be do that , but will she finally introduce mass screening for prostate cancer ? it be the only cancer without specifically commission early diagnosis work , and man be die unnecessarily because of the failure to bring this in . we have more than hint : we have just announce a £ 16 million pilot study of prostate cancer screening . we have a plan to tackle those 12 , 000 death a year , and it will work , because until now we have not have a diagnostic test . PSA be not a sensitive test in all prostate cancer : there be many man with prostate cancer who do not express PSA . that be why the Transform study , use detection tool such as MRI , will be trialle , and if they be effective , such tool will be roll out across the country . Midwifery and Maternity Services what step she be take to increase the recruitment and retention of NHS midwifery and maternity staff . we be invest an additional £ 165 million a year to improve maternity and neonatal care , rise to £ 186 million a year from April . this will increase the number of midwifery post and improve the quality of care that mother and baby receive . as of October last year , there be 23 , 100 full - time equivalent midwive work in NHS trust and other core organisation in England , which be more than 1 , 000 more than a year ago and 3 , 500 more than in 2010 . I thank the Secretary of State for that response . the Royal College of Midwives estimate that there be a shortage of around 2 , 500 full - time midwife work in the NHS . I know that at first hand from Cossham Hospital in my constituency , which have a wonderful birth centre , but it have be close for most of the last few year , because it simply can not get the midwife to staff it — they have to go elsewhere where more serious case need to be deal with . what be she do specifically about the retention of midwife ? I know that student number be , thankfully , come up , but a lot of midwife be choose to leave the profession because there be not enough flexibility in their work . I think we all agree that a career as a midwife be just one of the most rewarding and fulfilling career that one can hope for . that be why we have place such priority on retention in the long - term workforce plan that we launch last year . the national retention programme for midwifery and nursing have prioritise five action to support staff retention , include menopause guidance , because we know that that can be an issue for midwife , and value they and their contribution be also a key objective of NHS England ' s three - year plan for maternity service . as well as recruitment and retention , training matter . Anglia Ruskin University have a campus in Chelmsford and be the provider of the large number of health and social care degree in the country , training midwife , nurse and , since the medical school open , doctor . will the Secretary of State back the campaign to expand the medical school in Chelmsford so that we can train even more local people to work in our local NHS ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise her local college , which do amazing work for the whole of the NHS as well as in her local area . I may have to retain a discreet silence over that particular application but I know that if any Member be sure to advocate effectively for their local area , it be my right hon . friend . I call the shadow Minister . recruit and retrain more NHS staff be crucial if woman be to get gynaecology , obstetric and maternity care . I would like to share the story of Sandy Simmons . she be tell 11 month ago that she need surgery for a uterine prolapse ; today , after nearly a year of pain , she be still wait . labour candidate such as Keir Cozens in Great Yarmouth be speak up for woman like Sandy and the 905 woman wait more than a year for treatment in Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital . will the Secretary of State apologise to these woman — or , like the Prime Minister , will she just walk away ? I be genuinely delighted to welcome the hon . Lady to the Government ' s woman ' s health summit last week to announce the consolidation , and indeed the improvement , of the woman ' s health strategy that this Government have launch . we see significant success last year with hormone replacement therapy improvement and she know , because she attend the summit , that I have just announce a £ 50 million research fund look at maternity disparity and also research into female - specific condition . any concern she have about operation time she should take up with the local trust and it will perhaps tell she what impact industrial action have have , sadly , on elective surgery . cancer : early Diagnosis what step she be take to support the early diagnosis of cancer . I know this be an issue close to my right hon . friend ' s heart and pay tribute to she for her work as vice - chairman of the all - party group on radiotherapy . the pandemic have of course present a real challenge to deliver the Government target to diagnose 75 % of stageable cancer at stage 1 or stage 2 by 2028 , but I be pleased to be able to tell the House that we be come through that and last year diagnose more cancer at stage 1 and stage 2 than ever before . Cancer Research UK have publish an ambitious plan , " long , well life " , which remind we that for some cancer patient just a few week of delay can make the difference between whether they can be offer curative treatment or just palliative care . will the new diagnostic centre be open by the Government , include at Finchley Memorial Hospital , bring wait time down and secure that early diagnosis that be so important to survive cancer ? my right hon . friend make an important point . diagnostic check be a key part of the cancer pathway and the 150 community diagnostic centre open by this government , include the one at the Finchley Memorial Hospital , will provide early diagnostic test , support early diagnosis and bring down waiting time , benefit million of patient . these centre have deliver more than 6 million additional test for all elective activity since July 2021 and we expect the Finchley Memorial Hospital CDC to provide over 126 , 000 test for elective care in the next financial year . I thank the Minister for that response . research and development be very important ; it mean we can find more cure for cancer . my father , who be dead and go , survive cancer on three occasion ; that happen because of advance in find cure . what be be do to work alongside those in research and development to ensure that even more cancer can be cure and we can go from a 50 % rate to perhaps a 60 % or even 70 % rate for those who live long ? I be delighted that one of my first visit in the new year be to Northern Ireland to see some of the life science company , particularly those base around Queen ' s University Belfast . that sector in Northern Ireland be flourish . we be keen to support company work in research and bring together world - lead university such as Queen ' s with the private sector and the NHS to deliver improved outcome for all patient across every part of the United Kingdom . Sickle Cell Disease what step she be take to improve healthcare outcome for patient with sickle cell disease . I know this be an important issue for the hon . Lady in her role as chair of the sickle cell and thalassaemia all - party parliamentary group . we be work hard to provide the good possible care to those live with sickle cell disease . that include boost Ro subtype blood donation number , identify improvement in clinical pathway and deliver world - lead treatment , such as the new blood - match genetic test announce by NHS England yesterday , which will reduce the risk of side effect and offer more personalised care . I congratulate NHS England on the launch of the new blood - match genetic test for sickle cell patient , but it have be more than two year since the " No one ' s listen " report , which make the key recommendation that sickle cell patient receive pain relief within 30 minute of attend accident and emergency . why be that still not happen for sickle cell patient , and would the Minister like to meet I and the Sickle Cell Society to discuss how to achieve that ? I of course would be happy to meet the hon . Lady and the Sickle Cell Society to look at how we can improve patient experience and ensure that all patient benefit from timely access to the medication they need . I be delighted that she welcome yesterday ' s announcement . it be an example of how the NHS can bring forward world - first and be lead the way to transform patient care and improve patient outcome . Urgent and Emergency Care what step her Department be take to increase access to urgent and emergency care . almost a year ago , we publish our urgent and emergency care recovery plan . the NHS have already halve the waiting time for category 2 ambulance and bring down wait in A & E . we be determined to cut NHS wait , and our plan be work . rugby be one of the fast grow place in the UK . while we have have additional service introduce at our local Hospital of St Cross , my constituent have insufficient accident and emergency provision . thousand of local resident have sign my petition for doctor - lead accident and emergency care at the Hospital of St Cross . I know it be a matter for the integrate care board , but will the Minister give her support ? as a previous Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) and the previous Secretary of State have visit in the past few month , and I invite this Minister to do likewise . I thank my hon . friend for his invitation . he have be a tireless campaigner on this issue on behalf of his constituent . the future of healthcare be about get people the care that they need , where they need it and when they need it , and Rugby be no different . new local NHS service be bring care close to home in his area , such as the new imaging unit at the Hospital of St Cross that open in September . access to urgent and emergency care can be greater facilitated when great protection be offer to staff , particularly the many who suffer attack in emergency department at hospital across the United Kingdom — often by people who be intoxicate . the hon . Member make an important point . the safety of our staff in the national health service be important , include those in urgent and emergency care department , as well as the ambulance service . he be absolutely right to point that out , and it be never acceptable for anyone , include patient , to be violent towards staff . Mental Health Services what step she be take to increase access to mental health service . we be invest a record amount in NHS mental health service , commit £ 2 . 3 billion extra a year for the expansion and transformation of service in England , which will enable 2 million more people to access mental health support . if only the reality be that rosy . the entire sector be call out for reform of the Mental Health Act 1983 . with our mental health service in crisis , why do the Government scrap the long - await and overdue mental health Bill , which could have start to alleviate pressure on trust by reduce the number of people detain inappropriately and make service more fit for purpose ? be it not true that we need a Labour Government to take action on this issue ? it be go to be a long year . I have news for the hon . Gentleman , because we have a plan and it be work . our investment of £ 143 million into crisis support be show early evidence of reduce admission — admission be 8 % low . with the crisis telephone service , which be available 24 / 7 , we have admission down 12 % . more importantly , detention under the Mental Health Act be 15 % low . we have a plan , and it be work . in - patient unit : People with Learning Disabilities what recent progress her Department have make on reduce the number of people with a learn disability in in - patient unit . we have make progress against our target to reduce learn disability and autism in - patient number in England by 50 % since 2015 . for people with a learn disability without an autism diagnosis , there have be a 58 % net reduction ; for people with a learn disability who be autistic , the net reduction be 35 % . I thank the Secretary of State for that comprehensive answer . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for disability , I have be hear from organisation such as Mencap that remain concerned that people with learn difficulty be disproportionately detain for five to 10 year and for over 10 year . will she reassure those organisation that the " build the right support " action plan will continue to progress the great work that be be do ? I thank my hon . friend for her interest and , of course , her many year work as a clinical psychologist . she bring that experience to the Chamber . national commission guidance to integrate care board be publish in November . it set out that a mental health in - patient stay for a person with a learn disability " should be for the minimum time possible , for assessment and / or treatment which can only be provide in hospital " . in oversee implementation of the action plan go forwards , the " build the right support " delivery board will maintain focus on quality of care and on reduce long stay . it be vital for the Government to do more to move autistic people and people with learn disability out of in - patient unit and back to their community . recently , in the trial of staff at Whorlton Hall , we see staff who be cruel and uncaring . deliver sentence , the judge say that Whorlton Hall be an " unpredictable and … frightening place to live " . be it not time for the Government to close down those unit and move the majority of people into the community ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that point . we be all dismay and upset to see the experience of resident in those unit , and we see the correct criminal outcome — if I be allow to say that — for those involve in those assault . a review be go on as to how those issue be affect the estate as a whole , but we be clear that in - patient stay should happen only when they be strictly necessary . we must be mindful that clinician will be take many situation into account , include not just the safety of the patient but the safety of the wide community . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . woman ' s health need be often overlook and under - research . through our woman ' s health strategy , the Government be change that . last year , we make menopause a priority , help almost half a million woman get hormone replacement therapy for less than £ 20 a year . this year , we be build on that work and will have a woman ' s health hub in every integrate care board area in England . we will promote research into condition that only affect woman , such as endometriosis and lobular breast cancer , and those that affect woman differently from man , such as heart attack symptom . we have also launch the first research challenge — worth £ 50 million — to tackle maternity disparity that have no place in modern Britain . follow the brave campaign of my hon . friend the Members for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) and for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) , by March we will make dedicated maternal mental and physical healthcare available to every woman in England . I recently meet two constituent with experience of invasive lobular breast cancer . invasive lobular carcinoma be the second most common form of breast cancer , but it be not generally pick up by mammogram , and it behave differently from other breast cancer . however , lobular breast cancer have be understudied and underfunde , and it urgently need research funding . will the Secretary of State tell the House what specific action her Government be take to address those gap ? will she also reply to the Lobular Moon Shot Project , to which she — order . this be topical question . I gently remind the hon . Lady about the statement that I just give . last week we hold the woman ' s health summit , at which I announce that we be encourage research into condition such as lobular breast cancer . I make that announcement because of two amazing woman I meet recently who be live with the condition . they be introduce to I by my right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) and my right hon . friend — Order . I be wait for the reply . order . please can I just say that these be topical ? I have get to get through a big list , and lot of member be stand . we need short , punchy question , and the same with answer . I have be carry out a health survey of thousand of resident in Harrogate and Knaresborough , to ask they for their experience and view of the NHS . I will share the result with local healthcare professional , to support they and their work . when the result be in , will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how they will help inform and shape our local healthcare planning ? I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend to discuss that . as always , he be an excellent advocate for his constituency , and I will enjoy listen to the result of his survey . I call the shadow Minister . Mike Reader , Labour ' s candidate for Northampton South , share with I the horrific experience of Stanley , who have severe abdominal pain and call an ambulance , only to be tell it would take hour and to go to A & E . there , he be tell to wait for assessment on a patio chair outside . it be 3 ° . who be to blame ? I be very sorry to hear of the experience of that specific constituent . because of challenge that the NHS face , particularly our urgent and emergency care service , almost a year ago we set out our urgent and emergency care recovery plan , to speed up care for people in A & E and reduce wait . that plan be work . we be see ambulance get to people quick , and people treat quick in A & E . that be not a one - off . why will the Minister not take a shred of responsivity for the chaos that her party have cause our NHS ? the last Labour Government achieve the short wait and the high patient satisfaction in NHS history . the Conservatives have deliver the long wait and the low patient satisfaction in history . let we have that general election , so that she can defend her abysmal record to the public . the hon . Gentleman obviously be not listen to my answer ; in fact , he be read aloud . our urgent and emergency care plan be work . it be reduce rate in A & E , and ambulance be get to people fast . meanwhile , I be sorry to say that in the labour - run NHS in Wales , more than half of patient be wait more than four hour in A & E . what step be the Minister take to ascertain the cause of ongoing problem affect access to riluzole , the only license drug for the treatment of motor neurone disease in the UK , to provide clarity to the MND community and ensure that normal supply be restore as soon as possible ? we understand how worrying the possibility of medication shortage can be . there be a supply issue with riluzole 50 mg tablet , cause by a supplier experience manufacturing issue . we have a well - establish procedure in place to deal with such issue , and be work with the industry , the NHS and other to resolve it as quickly as possible . we have contact alternative supplier and have secure sufficient volume of stock . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . Cancer Research UK have find that too much uv radiation be the third big cause of cancer across these isle . do the Secretary of State recognise that cost be a barrier for people wish to protect their skin from the sun , and will she commit to have conversation with Cabinet colleague to remove vat on sun protection product , which will help protect NHS budget and ultimately save life ? we see that as part of a much wide campaign to ensure that we treat the sun safely , by reduce the amount of time we spend in the sun , particularly during peak hour of the day in summertime . I keep all these discussion in play with my Treasury colleague . rural constituency such as mine be see a grow number of dentist withdraw from NHS provision . what step be the Department take to ensure that vital dental care be provide for everyone , particularly in rural community ? my hon . friend be a great advocate for her community , and I pay tribute to she for work with determination to see more access to dentistry in Cornwall . she be right to do so . we have a plan , which be almost ready . I urge she to wait just a little long . she , like all colleague across the House , will see significant and real measure to improve access to dentistry . nhs staff have express concern about the Anaesthesia Associates and Physician Associates Order 2024 . can the Minister tell I if resource will be need for aa and pa to be properly supervise by doctor on a one to one ratio ? will he meet trade union and professional body as a matter of urgency to clarify the Government ' s position on this hugely important public health issue ? pa and aa be an essential part of the reform piece to the long - term workforce plan . I note that the order be pass by the House last night without a Division , so I be grateful for that cross - party support . we be work with the General Medical Council , the British Medical Association and other to ensure that the regulation be fit for the purpose . we look forward to the GMC launch its consultation on the fine print of the regulation very soon . as my constituent have to travel to Tamworth , Burton or Derby for diagnostic test , can I encourage the Secretary of State to look favourably on a bid for a new much - need community diagnostic centre in South Derbyshire ? I thank my hon . friend sincerely for her question . the good news be that community diagnostic centre have now deliver over 6 million additional test and scan since July 2021 thank to the hard work of NHS staff , but I will of course be delighted to meet she to discuss her plan for her local constituency . new British Heart Foundation analysis show that the number of people die before the age of 75 in England from heart and circulatory disease have rise to its high level in over a decade . the rate of premature death from cardiovascular disease have now increase in England for three year back to back . why be the Government take such a long time to get to grip with this crisis ? the NHS long - term plan commit to a number of key ambition to improve care and outcome for individual suffer from cardiovascular disease , include enhanced diagnostic support in the community , well personalise planning , and increase access to cardiac rehabilitation . those ambition will support the delivery of the aim to prevent 150 , 000 heart attack , stroke and dementia case by 2029 . the single big concern my constituent raise about healthcare be access to GPs , especially in Blackrod and Westhoughton . what more can my right hon . friend do to ensure we have well gp access ? I be pleased to tell my hon . friend that our NHS long - term plan set out a real - term increase of at least £ 4 . 5 billion a year for primary and community care by 2023 - 24 . we now have over 2 , 000 more full - time equivalent GPs work in our NHS , and we have have the amazing achievement of more than 50 million more appointment per year , beat our target several month early . thing be improve significantly , and there be many more measure I would be delighted to talk to he privately about . in the NHS in Cheshire and Merseyside between April and June last year , the 62 - day cancer waiting time target be not meet . if the target have be achieve , around 150 extra patient would have be treat on time . what would the Secretary of State like to say to those 150 patient ? the 62 - day backlog have fall by 27 % since its peak in May 2020 . we know there be more to be do , and that be why we be bring forward more measure as early as possible . in April 2023 , more than nine in 10 patient — 90 % — start their first cancer treatment within one month of a decision to treat . many of my constituent who use Regis Medical Centre have be leave angry and frustrate by the botched implementation of an Anima booking system , lead to they be unable to get an appointment or the treatment they need . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we can learn the lesson from that botched implementation and make sure trust in that gp surgery be restore ? yes , happy to . I recently meet the staff of a pharmacy in Bruton in my constituency to hear about some of the challenge it be face . community pharmacist be dispense some of the country ' s most widely prescribe drug at a loss , therefore subsidise the NHS . what step be the Secretary of State ' s Department take to prevent the closure of community pharmacist ? we be ensure that community pharmacist have an even great role in primary care than they have already . for example , we see the first stage of the roll - out of Pharmacy First in December , with blood pressure check and contraceptive care be roll out . I be very pleased that we be on track to deliver the full roll - out of Pharmacy First by the end of the month . the colour of someone ' s skin should not have an impact on the reliability of medical device , but we know that that be what happen during the pandemic for many black and asian patient . when I be the Health Secretary , I commission an independent review of the equity of medical device from Professor Dame Margaret Whitehead . her report be hand to the Department in June last year , but the Department have not yet publish it or respond to it . I know that my right hon . friend care about health inequality as much as I do , so may I ask she to publish the report , along with a full Government response , as a matter of urgency ? I thank my right hon . friend for commission that vital piece of work . I be give the matter my close attention , and I hope very much to be in a position to respond to his point in due course . this week the Riverside unit in my constituency , which treat young people with severe eat disorder , have to close temporarily because of concern about its ability to provide safe care . what be the Government do to ensure that young people who , in many case , go through mental health crisis as a result of their eat disorder receive the care that they need as close to home as possible ? as the hon . Lady will know , we be invest more in mental health service for young people in particular and , indeed , for those with eat disorder . we be see more young people more quickly than ever before , but if the hon . Lady wish to raise a local issue with I , I shall be happy to meet she and discuss it . the opening of a new block of operate theatre next month mark the late investment in Torbay Hospital , but it be , of course , a prelude to the major rebuilding work . when do the Secretary of State plan to deliver the next update on the progress of that project ? hear , hear ! I be delighted that the House be as happy about that expansion as the hon . Gentleman and I be . I will meet he to go through his plan , because I know how carefully he have campaign for this important asset in his constituency . in the early hour of Friday morning , I arrive at the Royal Lancaster Infirmary with my sick son in an ambulance . as we walk past trolley in the corridor , the nurse who be treat he say , " our A & E unit be too small . we be promise a new hospital four year ago , but I think they have forget about we . " can the Secretary of State tell that nurse , my constituent , whether we have indeed forget about that new hospital ? the hon . Lady be aware of my knowledge not only of that hospital , but of her local area . I will look into this matter for she , because I want to ensure that the good people of Lancashire , Mr Speaker , be look after as we would all hope and expect . I look forward to see that in Chorley . I warmly welcome what my right hon . friend say last week about encourage research on lobular breast cancer , and I look forward to meet the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for Lewes ( Maria Caulfield ) , shortly to work out how we can operationalise what be her clear ambition . I thank my right hon . friend and my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) for bring two amazing woman to talk to I about the impact of lobular cancer . for the benefit of Members on both side of the House , last week we send out a " dear colleague " letter and graphic about the woman ' s health strategy so that we can all help our constituent to understand what this Conservative Government be do to ensure that the healthcare of woman be fast , simple and fair . action against Houthi Maritime Attacks Overnight , at my order , the Royal Air Force engage in a second wave of strike against Houthi military target in Yemen . we do so because we continue to see , for instance in intelligence , an ongoing and imminent threat from the Houthis to UK commercial and military vessel and to those of our partner in the Red sea and the wide region . I tell the House last week that we would not hesitate to respond if the act continue , in order to protect innocent life and preserve the freedom of navigation , and that be what we have do . we act alongside the United States , with support from Australia , Bahrain , Canada and the Netherlands . we act on the same basis as on 11 January — fully in line with international law , in self - defence and in response to a persistent threat — and , and as with the first wave , the strike be limit to carefully select target , with maximum care take to protect civilian life . attempt to counter every Houthi attack after it have be launch be simply not sustainable . we have already shoot down dozen of missile and drone target at civilian vessel and at the Royal Navy , and the Houthis have conduct at least 12 further attack on shipping since 11 January , include just last night , shortly before our strike be conduct . so we act to far degrade their ability to mount such attack . last week I give the House our initial assessment of the first wave of strike . since then , we have see further evidence that they be successful in degrade the Houthis ' military capability . last night we hit two military site just north of Sana ' a , each contain multiple specific target which the Houthis use to support their attack on shipping . I want to be very clear : we be not seek a confrontation . we urge the Houthis , and those who enable they , to stop these illegal and unacceptable attack . but if necessary , the United Kingdom will not hesitate to respond again in self - defence . we can not stand by and allow these attack to go unchallenged . inaction be also a choice . with that in mind , and give the persistent nature of the threat , it be important to update the House again today . I listen carefully to right hon . and hon . member last week , and we will give the House a chance for a full debate on our broad approach in the Red sea tomorrow . we take extensive step to address this threat to international security before take military action . we launch Operation Prosperity Guardian in December with over 20 other country . the international community issue repeat statement on 1 December , 19 December , 3 January and 12 January condemn the attack and urge the Houthis to desist . on 10 January , the United Nations Security Council pass a resolution demand that they stop the attack . I think it be important to note that the internationally recognise Government of Yemen have also condemn the Houthis for their action , accuse they of " create a conflict for propaganda " serve only their own selfish end . as we see in the House last week , member be rightly keen to hear how this situation can be bring to an end . the answer must include the vital right to self - defence when we be attack , but that be only one part of our wide response , which I want to say more about today . first , we be increase our diplomatic engagement , because we recognise the deep concern about , and the complexity of , the current situation . I speak to President Biden about these issue last night . the Foreign Secretary will be in the region in the come day , and he meet his iranian counterpart last week . he make it clear that they must cease supply the Houthis with weapon and intelligence and use their influence to stop Houthi attack . secondly , we must end the illegal flow of arm to the Houthi militia . we have intercept weapon shipment in the region before , include component of the very missile use by the Houthis today . this bring home the importance of maritime security in the region , and it include work closely with our ally and partner to disrupt and deter the supply of weapon and component . thirdly , we will use the most effective mean at our disposal to cut off the Houthis ' financial resource , where they be use to fund these attack . we be work closely with the US on this and plan to announce new sanction measure in the come day . fourthly , we need to keep help the people of Yemen , who have suffer so terribly as a result of the country ' s civil war . we will continue to deliver humanitarian aid and to support a negotiate peace in that conflict , not just because it be the right thing to do but because we need to show the people of Yemen that we have no quarrel with they — as the yemeni Government understand . this be our strategy and we will keep all other tool under close review as well . I repeat that there be no link between our action of self - defence in the Red sea and the situation in Israel and Gaza . those who make that link do the Houthis ' work for they , and I want to be clear that those here at home who glorify the Houthis ' attack be glorify terrorism , plain and simple . they will be meet with a zero - tolerance approach . all of that say , I would like to address the situation in Israel and Gaza directly because it remain at the forefront of member ' mind . President Biden and I discuss this again yesterday and he share my deep concern about the situation and the terrible suffering and loss of civilian life , so together we be work to establish a new aid route through the port of Ashdod . the UK want to see an end to the fighting in Gaza as soon as possible . we be call for an immediate humanitarian pause to get aid in and hostage out , as a vital step towards build a sustainable , permanent ceasefire without a return to destruction , fighting and loss of life . to achieve that , Hamas must agree to the release of all hostage . they can no long be in charge of Gaza . the threat from Hamas terror and rocket attack must end , and an agreement must be in place for the Palestinian Authority to return to Gaza to provide governance , service and security . that pathway to peace should unite the whole House . I believe we be also unite in support of a two - state solution . through all the complexity of the current situation , our principle hold firm : resolute in the face of threat , compassionate in support of those in need , and determine in maintain stability , security and the rule of law . that be what our ally and partner have come to expect from the United Kingdom , and that be what we stand for . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I thank the Prime Minister for the advance copy of his statement . Labour say that we will judge further action against the Houthis on a case - by - case basis , so let I be clear that we back this targeted action to reinforce maritime security in the Red sea . the Houthi attack must stop . they be design to destabilise we , so we must stand united and strong . they bring danger to ordinary civilian work hard at sea , so we must protect those civilian . and they aim to disrupt the flow of good , food and medicine , so we must not let they go unaddresse . the professionalism and bravery of those serve on HMS Diamond and fly RAF Typhoons be both totally accept and completely remarkable . without they , Britain can not be a force for good in the world . this be , of course , the second set of strike in which the UK have participate . the stated aim of the first set be to deter and degrade Houthi capability , but we now know that their attack have continue . while we do not question the justification for action , it be right that the House hear more about its effectiveness . labour , of course , recognise that strike can reduce threat without eliminate it , and we recognise that military action be just one component of a wide diplomatic strategy . none the less , I ask the Prime Minister to set out his confidence that these strike will be effective in reduce Houthi capability . as the situation have evolve , although we of course understand the clear legal basis for these action , will the Prime Minister commit to restate and republish the Government ' s legal position ? alongside the UK and the US , other country have provide non - operational support for these strike and maritime protection in the Red sea . many more support the United Nations Security Council resolution that utterly condemn the Houthi attack . what work be be do to hold together that coalition and , if possible , to enlarge it ? the action that the UK take must draw on the support of all those who care about international law . give the special role that the UK play in Yemen , will the Prime Minister set out the concrete step , in addition to those in his statement , that we be take to help the people of Yemen who have suffer terribly as a result of that country ' s civil war ? the international community can not allow itself to be divide , which be exactly what the Houthi backer in Tehran would love to see . on that note , can the Prime Minister update the House on whether his Government have give further consideration to the proscription of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ? we need every tool at our disposal to disrupt irgc activity , and we must show Iran that it can not pursue its end by destabilise the entire region . like the Prime Minister , I totally reject the Houthi claim that attack ship from around the world be somehow link to the conflict in Gaza . these attack do absolutely nothing for the palestinian people . what be need in Gaza be a humanitarian truce now , a sustainable ceasefire to stop the killing of innocent civilian , space for the return of all hostage , urgent humanitarian relief and a decisive step towards a two - state solution . palestinian statehood be the inalienable right of the palestinian people ; it be not in the gift of a neighbour . do the Prime Minister agree that a secure Israel alongside a viable palestinian state be the only path to a just and last peace ? we must stop those who sow division ; we must do what we can to disrupt and deter the Houthis ; and we must stay united and steadfast in defence of our value , our security and our right to self - defence . Labour will always act in the national interest , and we provide our full support for these necessary and proportionate strike . I thank the Leader of the Opposition for his statement and his support — I be grateful to he for that . he raise all the right question about the action today , which I be happy to answer . first , the right hon . and learn Gentleman ask about the effectiveness of strike in deter and precisely degrading capability . I be pleased to tell he that further evidence , after the initial statement I make last week , have demonstrate to we that the strike last week be effective in degrading capability and all the intended target be destroy . I be also pleased to say that our initial evidence from last night ' s strike be also that all intend target be destroy , which demonstrate to we that , work with our ally , who have the same view , the strike be work to degrade capability , even though , as the right hon . and learn Gentleman say , there may be a difference between reduce and eliminate . we be confident that what we be do be work to degrade capability . the target be specifically select on the basis of intelligence ; they be military site that impact the security and safety of seafarer and shipping . to that end , I be confident that , as I say , the strike be be carry out in a way that be effective in achieve their aim . I thank the right hon . and learn Gentleman for acknowledge that the strike sit within a wide strategy in the region to bring about an end to what we be see . the Foreign Secretary will be in the region this week , engage extensively with our partner and ally on all the topic that the right hon . and learn Gentleman raise , and particularly ensure that we can continue to make progress on a sustainable peace in Yemen . no doubt the Foreign Secretary will talk to our saudi partner about that and , crucially , broaden the coalition of support for the action we have take . as I point to in my statement , multiple statement have be make by a wide coalition of country from around the world in support of action . the right hon . and learn Gentleman can rest assure that we be continue to expand that coalition of support , because the security of navigation and shipping impact all country , wherever they might be , not just in the Red sea . all of we have see the consequence of the war in Ukraine on energy bill across the european continent and beyond , so I think people be very alive to the interconnectedness of the global economy and the importance of protect freedom of navigation everywhere . on the legal advice , my understanding be that we have publish or be imminently about to publish a summary of the legal advice — I can happily give the right hon . and learn Gentleman that confirmation . I can also confirm to he that the basis for action remain the same as it be last time , but an update to that effect have be publish or will shortly be publish by the Attorney General . lastly , I will touch on the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s broad point . he be right to highlight the malign influence of Iran in the region . obviously , we do not comment on ongoing decision or process relate to the proscription of organisation , but he can rest assure that we be alive to the risk and work closely with our ally , particularly the United States and our european ally , to jointly work out the most effective way of counter that influence . as I have say , the Foreign Secretary speak to his counterpart last week , and we will continue to use all measure at our disposal to protect ourselves . we pass the National Security Act 2023 here in the UK and have already sanction the irgc in its entirety . more generally , on the specific action we have take , I again thank the right hon . and learn Gentleman for his support . we have take limited , proportionate and , I believe , necessary action in self - defence . we will always reserve the right to do that to protect innocent life and freedom of navigation . our desire outcome , of course , be for the Houthis to desist and to de - escalate the situation . what they be do be unacceptable and illegal , and the onus should be on they to stop it . but we will use all lever at our disposal , include diplomacy and sanction , to achieve that objective . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . I welcome what my right hon . Friend say about diplomatic and humanitarian effort , and indeed cut off the supply of arm . I particularly welcome what he say about the effectiveness of the strike that have already take place . however , do he agree that in order to protect civilian shipping , this may need to be a prolonged and persistent target campaign alongside our ally ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . I want to be absolutely clear that no decision have be take to embark on a sustained campaign of the nature that he mention — these be limited strike , specifically in response to threat that we perceive — but we do reserve the right to take action in self - defence , as I have say . crucially , the military action be just one part of a broad strategy , include diplomacy , sanction and other thing ; we will use all lever to bring about an end to the disruption and the illegality that the Houthis be cause . I call the leader of the Scottish National party . freedom of navigation be not a choice : it be a necessity , not least because of the impact there could be on all the people we be very fortunate to represent . as such , as a point of principle it be fair for the Government to use proportionate and robust action to defend that right to freedom of navigation . however , all of we in this Chamber need to be mindful of the opponent that we face in this regard . the Houthis have be under almost constant bombardment from Saudi Arabia for the good part of eight year ; they do not get that message , so why be we so confident that they will get our message this time around ? that , of course , lead to the wide question : what be the ultimate strategy go forward , in relation not just to the Houthis but to the wide region ? over the past week , we have see missile strike in Iran , Iraq , Lebanon , Pakistan , Syria and , of course , Yemen . in the meantime , we continue to see the complete destruction of Gaza and , of course , Hamas continue to obtain hostage . we need to understand the Government ' s strategy to calm water not just in the Red sea but right across the region . surely that must begin with a ceasefire in Gaza . as difficult as the situation be , to do nothing would also be a choice . I believe that would be the wrong choice because it would be tantamount to ceding control of a global , economically vital shipping route to a dangerous militant group that be back by Iran , and it would put innocent life at risk . the hon . Gentleman be right that the military action should sit within a broad strategy , which hopefully he can tell from my statement we be engage in on all front . on the hon . Gentleman ' s point about Israel and Gaza , as I have make clear , no one want to see this conflict go on for a moment long than necessary . an immediate pause be necessary to get aid in and hostage out — that be what we have be call for . the good outcome will be move from that pause to a sustainable ceasefire , but , as I be clear about in my statement , a number of thing need to happen for that to be possible , include the release of all the hostage by Hamas , Hamas no long be in charge in Gaza and an agreement for the Palestinian Authority to return to Gaza to provide governance . that be a conversation we have be have , and we will continue to push for that , because I believe that will be the good outcome and it be one that be widely support by , I would imagine , everyone in this House . just to help the House , some people be late , and we be only go to run this for an hour , so please try to help each other by be as quick as you can . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I welcome the airstrike , which be conduct solely to re - establish freedom of maritime movement . however , there be a number of iranian proxy and ally group operate across the middle east , and the hand of Iran be clear in their activity . Iran be the fundamental threat to UK security and to stability in the region . what be the strategic approach and intent to comprehensively reduce the threat that we face from all the proxy and ally , so that we do not end up play whack - a - mole ? have we see any opportunism from al - Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula or Daesh , who be also on the ground in Iran ? finally , as the Prime Minister touch on Gaza - Israel , please may I reiterate my request for the UK to launch a contact group for Palestine , so that we can launch track 2 negotiation to get some progress towards stability and a two - state solution ? the behaviour of the iranian regime , include the action of the irgc , pose a significant threat to the safety and security of the United Kingdom and our ally , particularly give Iran ' s direct threat against people here in the UK , as well as its destabilising influence in the region . we be alive to the threat , which be why we have already sanction more than 400 iranian individual , include the irgc in its entirety . the National Security Act 2023 provide new measure for our police and security service to counter the hostile influence that we see . the Foreign Secretary speak to his iranian counterpart last week , and we will continue that diplomacy this week . as I point out in my statement , we have previously interdict the supply of iranian missile be smuggle to the Houthis , last year and the year before . we need to ensure that we work with our ally to do that , because the flow of those weapon to the Houthis be critical to their ability to carry out these attack . work with our ally , we should try to do everything we can to stop that . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrat party . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement . as I make clear last week , the liberal Democrats accept the case for limited strike against the Houthis , as long as they remain limited . as the Prime Minister update the House for the second time on this matter , there be remarkably little clarity about what the next step be and when the UK ' s objective will be judge to have be fulfil . nor have the Prime Minister sufficiently address how he plan to avoid regional escalation in this most fragile of region . I thank he for agree that the House can debate this matter tomorrow , but will he not give the House the opportunity to vote on this matter , not least give the huge cross - party support for limited strike ? that would surely strengthen the signal he intend to give . what be escalatory be the Houthis ramp up attack on commercial shipping , launch missile and drone against US and UK warship , and threaten allied basis in the region . I have be very clear that military action be a last resort . we provide warning after warning , include with ally and at the UN Security Council . the Houthis have , and continue to have , the ability to prevent this by stop their illegal attack . as I point out early , there be also risk to inaction because it would damage international security and the global economy , and send a message that british vessel , life and interest be fair game , none of which I think be acceptable . I be pleased that the House will have an opportunity to debate the matter tomorrow but , as I say , we reserve the right to take action in a limited , proportionate and legal way in self - defence . that be the right thing and the country would expect nothing less from the Government . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement and action . on the issue of Iran , can he say what contingency planning have be do in the eventuality that Houthi attack in the Red sea be follow up by IRGC attack in the persian gulf ? my right hon . friend be right to point out the link between Iran and the Houthis . we be alive to that and I discuss it with President Biden last night . my right hon . friend will know that we have asset in the region and we be work closely with our ally to ensure maritime security , whether that be by interdict arm or more generally ensure the freedom of navigation . diplomacy will also have to play a part , which be why the Foreign Secretary ' s conversation with his iranian counterpart be so important , but we remain alive to the risk and will do everything we can to reduce they . the Prime Minister be right that to do nothing be not an option , but to do something there need to be a strategy . if the attack continue and there be continued disruption to maritime trade , do he have a plan b ? that be why we be work extensively with our ally , broaden the international coalition of support condemn the Houthis ' behaviour , and put pressure on they in all different way . it be important that military action be not see in isolation : it sit alongside wide diplomatic and economic strategy . as I say , we will bring forward new sanction measure , together with our ally , in the come day . I express my full support for the action that my right hon . friend the Prime Minister have approve . will he extend his strategic objective , because it seem that this threat will remain so long as the Houthis have a safe haven to operate from ? it be a question of how we deal with that part of Yemen , which be effectively an ungoverned space . it be clear that the Houthis ' behaviour be damage the people of Yemen . we have talk previously about the importance of the supply of food into Yemen , but the destruction of oil infrastructure also deprive the yemeni people of key revenue . these be all topic with which we be engage with our saudi partner . we very much support the negotiation . as my hon . friend know , a deal be announce in December . we would like to see a last peace and security for the yemeni people for an inclusive political settlement , and I can assure he that , diplomatically , we be work very hard to achieve that aim . the Prime Minister rightly state that the majority of this House support a two - state solution to bring a last peace , but that be clearly not share by the israeli Prime Minister , Netanyahu , member of his far - right Cabinet , or the israeli ambassador to the UK , who openly advocate genocide on the UK airwave . they have all reject an independent state of Palestine . will the Prime Minister make it clear to the israeli Prime Minister that he condemn his comment , which stand in the way of peace ? will he also condemn the vile comment of the israeli ambassador , who label every building in Gaza as a legitimate target for the israeli military ? the Foreign Secretary will be in the region this week and will reiterate what I have say publicly and from this Dispatch Box : we be absolutely committed to a two - state solution . we believe that be the right outcome for the people in the region . we want Palestinians and Israelis to be able to live side by side in peace , security and dignity , and we will redouble our effort to bring about that outcome . Yemen be a complex , war - tear and troubled country that have never really settle since the north and south united in 1990 . today , the civil war mean that two third of the population require humanitarian support . when I be Minister for the middle east , I spend a lot of time with the United Nations , the US and Gulf nation try to build a suitable governance and security framework . do the Prime Minster agree that , unless our attention on Yemen include not only remove the immediate threat in the Red sea , but a fresh and more cognitive approach to resolve the long - term governance issue in this troubled country , the threat will remain ? I thank my right hon . friend for his previous effort . as he know , we be a penholder on Yemen in the UN , and we continue to use our diplomatic and political influence to support UN effort to bring about that last peace to Yemen for an inclusive political settlement . the british people can be proud of what we be do to support the yemeni people from a humanitarian perspective . we have commit more than £ 1 billion in aid since the conflict begin in 2014 . I believe that this year we will be the fourth or fifth large donor to the UN ' s appeal . what assessment have the Prime Minister make of the risk if the Houthis move to a different part of Yemen , and how many civilian casualty have there be so far ? I be pleased to say that all our intelligence suggest that there be no civilian casualty from the strike that we conduct last week , and that will of course have be our intention this time . we be very careful to take the time to pick the target and minimise any civilian casualty and impact . as I have say , we believe that there be none last time , and we have no evidence to suggest that there be any this time , but of course that be just an initial assessment . I thank the Prime Minister for the update and the continued humanitarian aid to Yemen . I totally agree with the action that he have take to protect shipping . however , can he tell I what truth there be in the rumour that the Houthis may become a proscribe terrorist organisation , as that would have a major impact on any humanitarian aid send to Houthi - control territory , which include about 70 % of the population ? as my hon . friend will know , we do not comment on proscription process or decision on any group , so she will appreciate that there be not much that I can say on that . just to clarify , it be worth point out that the United States have designate the Houthi group as " a specially designate terrorist group " , which be different from full proscription . at the moment , we see Houthi attack continue , the Popular Mobilisation Units attack US basis in Syria , and Hezbollah in a low - level war with Israel in Lebanon . yesterday in Gaza 24 member of the israeli military be kill , and 24 , 000 Palestinians have die — [ interruption . ] it be now 25 , 000 , we be tell . this morning we hear how a doctor be amputate child ' s limb in Gaza without anaesthetic . do the Prime Minister not realise that , without an immediate ceasefire , any hope of a strategy succeeding will fail , and that the Netanyahu Cabinet have now become an obstacle to peace , rather than a partner in peace ? as I have say , no one want to see the conflict in Gaza go on for a moment long than be necessary . an immediate pause be now need to get aid in and hostage out . the good outcome will be move from that pause to a sustainable ceasefire , but that sustainable , permanent ceasefire do require a set of condition for it to be truly sustainable and permanent , and that involve the release of all hostage and Hamas have no role in Gaza , particularly to fire rocket continually into Israel . that be the sustainable ceasefire that we be push for . if the Houthis persist , have we the capability to remove the threat , and will we do it ? as my right hon . friend can see , we will always back up our word with action . we have be clear that we will not tolerate risk to innocent life and british interest in the region . we will take action where necessary in a limited and proportionate way , in compliance with international law and in self - defence . that be what we do last week and what we have do this week , and we will always reserve the right to do so in order to protect british life and interest . it be clear that the " Partisans of God " — the Houthi militia — be fascist and racist . they be back by fascist and racist in Tehran . far to early question — this have be ask time and again from both side of the House — may I ask when we will get around to fully proscribe the irgc ? as I have say previously , we do not routinely comment on group that we may or may not be consider for proscription , but we have take significant action against the irgc , include sanction they in their entirety and pass new law here at home to make sure that we can protect ourselves . critically , we be work with our ally so that we can jointly determine what be the most effective way to combat the risk that Iran pose to we . I congratulate the Prime Minister on a robust response — the right to navigate be indisputable — but the damage have already be do . tanker be avoid the Gulf of Aden , the Red sea and the Suez canal . freight rate be now soar and the impact of that on european refinery be likely to be significant . can the Prime Minister say more about what will be do for armed convoy and how we will restore confidence that people and vessel will be able to navigate that stretch of water ? the Transport Secretary have be engage extensively with the industry . my hon . friend will have see the statement from lead shipping company after last week ' s strike , say that they welcome action be take to restore security . I also point he to Operation Prosperity Guardian , a coalition of more than 20 country . More be now send asset into the region to ensure the safety of all civilian and commercial shipping through the Red sea . it be a critical economic strait , but there be also a principle at stake , which we must defend . the war in Gaza and the situation in the middle east be worsen every day . we know that more than 25 , 000 people have be kill , include 10 , 000 child , not to mention about 135 , 000 child suffer from severe malnutrition . we know that the only way to de - escalate the violence in Gaza and the crisis in the Red sea be by secure an immediate ceasefire — not a pause , but an immediate ceasefire . why will the Prime Minister not commit to call for this , so that we can see an end to this humanitarian catastrophe and the killing of innocent child ? I point the hon . Lady to my previous comment on that topic , but I will also just highlight that we have treble our aid commitment for this financial year . we be work with partner in the region to increase the amount of aid go into the region . I discuss that with President Biden yesterday , because we recognise the humanitarian impact that the conflict be have . the UK be play a lead role in get more humanitarian aid into the region . as I have say , right now we will work with the Americans on open up Ashdod so that we have a new maritime corridor to increase the flow . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I thank the Prime Minister for his resolute work , include the wide update on humanitarian aid and work to release hostage . family of hostage and those hostage release will be suffer unconscionable long - term psychological trauma . can we , in addition to physical aid , look at provide psychological support and expertise from the UK wherever it be need for all those so gravely impact ? I thank my hon . friend for that excellent point . like she , I have spend time with hostage family , include just yesterday , and she be right about the trauma that they be experience . every family that we be in contact with will have dedicate support from the Foreign Office to provide they with what they need , and I will continue to ensure that the issue she raise get the attention it deserve . she highlight the importance of pause and ceasefire to ensure the unconditional release of all the hostage . they and their family be undergo something that no one would wish to have happen to they , and it be important that we prioritise they in all these conversation . I and many other will be disappoint at the Prime Minister ' s failure to condemn the increasingly violent and extreme language by Netanyahu and his Ministers , and I invite he again to do so . the Prime Minister say 10 day ago that the airstrike against Houthi target would send a clear message . the Foreign Secretary say this morning that more strike send the clear message . can the Prime Minister tell we where that will end , give that the only message actually be receive in the region , whether he like it or not , be about the UK ' s failure to back an end to the suffering in Gaza ? again , I urge the hon . Lady not to link and conflate these two thing , because — it be not I ! she be right : it be the Houthis who be do that , and it be right that we call that out as be wrong , as the Government of Yemen themselves have do . it be absolutely right that we take necessary and proportionate action in self - defence against risk to british life and interest . that be what we do last week and what we have do this week , and we will always reserve the right to do so . in parallel and separately , we be also do everything we can to bring about more aid into Gaza and a sustainable ceasefire there that involve a release of hostage and the end of Hamas ' s hostility . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement and action of self - defence against the Houthis as the right thing to do . over the past 24 hour , the BBC have carry report that senior irgc general have make extremist speech to United Kingdom student that be riddle with antisemitism and the promotion of violence . this radicalisation simply must stop . what step be my right hon . friend take to end IRGC infiltration in the United Kingdom ? while I fully acknowledge that he will not comment on proscription at the Dispatch Box , will he at least acknowledge the strength of feeling on both side of the House and across the political divide for the proscription of the irgc , which be behind so much of the violence in the region , include the barbaric attack of 7 October and the continue attack in the Red sea ? I first stress that it be an absolute priority to protect the UK against foreign interference , and we will use all available lever to do that . on the particular matter my hon . friend raise about those report , I know the Charity Commission have open an ongoing compliance case into trust link to the Kanoon Islamic centre , so it be right that that investigation happen properly . more broadly , university have a duty to prevent people be draw into terrorism , and where there be evidence that university be fail in that duty , I be happy to reassure he that the Government will not hesitate to intervene to ensure that the right step be take . I , too , share concern about what the strategy be , what the contagion to the rest of the middle east will be , and the possibility that might be bolster the Houthis ' position in Yemen . can I ask the Prime Minister about a constituent ' s partner , who I mention to the Leader of the House last Thursday ? he have be await evacuation from south Gaza for a number of month . he have now suffer a broken leg and be receive no healthcare . I urge the Prime Minister to liaise with the israeli and egyptian authority for his immediate evacuation — it can not carry on . I be very happy to do that , and I will follow up with the Leader of the House on the hon . Lady ' s case . the threat to maritime shipping in the Red sea be from not just Houthi missile , but the threat of cyber - attack often come from iranian proxy . do the Prime Minister agree that there be an urgent need to strengthen the cyber - resilience of our maritime partner , to ensure that they be not susceptible to the threat of cyber - attack , which may disable they and cause multiple problem ? my hon . friend make an excellent point , and that be why we previously create and fund the National Cyber Security Centre , on which our ally respect we for show global leadership . his point be well make , and I will ensure that we be spread our good practice to ally in the region . the key to address violence be to address the root cause , not just its manifestation . the Red sea be inextricably link to the event in Gaza . rather than bomb the Houthis , who have be bomb for a decade by Saudi Arabia with the good military equipment that Britain and America could sell to it , be it not time that we support South Africa and other country at the International Court of Justice in address the root cause , which be the genocide unfolding in Palestine ? I disagree with the hon . Gentleman , and we disagree with what South Africa have bring to the ICJ and do not believe that it be helpful . I also disagree with he that those two thing be link . the Houthis have carry out attack on multiple ship from different country , many of which have nothing to do with the situation in Israel and Gaza . as the Government of Yemen themselves have point out , the attack have nothing to do with that situation , which the Houthis be use as propaganda for their own selfish end . the Prime Minister have refer to the international support for the action in the Red sea , but why have only US and UK force actually take part in they ? we also receive support from Canada , Australia , the Netherlands and Bahrain in these strike , as we do last time . I point the right hon . gentleman to the statement that have be put out previously by over a dozen country , include New Zealand , Korea , Singapore and other , and also to the UN Security Council resolution from 10 January , which be unequivocal in condemn the Houthi attack and acknowledge the right of member state , in accordance with international law , to defend their vessel from attack . we now have 25 , 000 dead . there be still 130 hostage . my extended family be still trap . while we want to have hope , I dare say that it have now turn to complete despondency . the Prime Minister will have hear with dismay , I be sure , the word of Netanyahu when he say that he be categorically against two state . that echo the equally awful word of Hamas , who say the same thing . do the Prime Minister not agree that what we have here be the extreme of the debate ? what word of hope do he have to offer those voice in Israel , Palestine and beyond who cle on desperately for the light in this darkness ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and comment . I agree that we be committed to a two - state solution , because that be the only way we can bring about a future where Palestinians and Israelis can live side by side with the security they deserve , with dignity and with opportunity . the event of the last few month remind we that we must redouble our effort to bring about that outcome . I remain confident , because of the engagement that we be have , that we can make progress on that aim . the Prime Minister say , " we urge the Houthis , and those who enable they , to stop these illegal and unacceptable attack . " he then speak only about Iran in term of those who enable they . who else be enable the Houthis , and what action be the UK and its ally take to stop they and their supply of weapon and other support to the Houthis ? I particularly mention Iran with good reason , because it be one of the primary supplier of weapon to the Houthis . that be why in the past we have interdict those shipment . Iran ' s behaviour remain of primary concern to we . it be the significant destabilising actor in the region , and it will continue to be a focus of our diplomatic effort . more broadly , we want to see peace and stability in the region across the board . diplomatically and otherwise , we will work hard to bring that about . further violence will not achieve peace . aid agency be warn that the UK and the US continue to bomb Yemen be threaten civilian population and inhibit humanitarian assistance reach million who be already endure starvation . instead of escalate risk to civilian population in the region , why can the Prime Minister not just support the grow and increase call internationally for an immediate ceasefire in Israel - Gaza , an end to the bloodshed in Gaza and an end to the attack on Yemen , and call for peace , justice and human right ? again , I would not draw a link between the action in the Red sea and the situation in Gaza . they be two completely different thing . the Houthis may seek to link they , but we should not pander to that narrative . we have be in touch with our non - governmental organisation partner , and they have confirm no significant disruption to humanitarian effort follow our airstrike . we help feed around 100 , 000 yemeni every single month . again , I would urge the hon . Lady to recognise that the Houthis ' activity actually damage the yemeni people , who be entirely reliant on food come in through those shipping lane . the Prime Minister sketch out some of the Government ' s view on term for a sustainable ceasefire in Gaza . what step be the Government take to discuss with other state — particularly with friendly state — a long - term peace plan for the region , include a two - state solution , to ensure that we make real progress towards that objective ? I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that we be have exactly that conversation with all our partner and ally in the region . I start that dialogue when I visit the region towards the end of last year , the Foreign Secretary will be in the region again this week , and it be something that President Biden and I have discuss . I believe that we be align on the future that we all want to see for the people of Israel and Gaza , and now we will work constructively with our ally to try to ensure that that can happen . may I press the Prime Minister a little more on Palestine ? although he be right to say in his statement that President Biden and he be unite in support of a two - state solution , he will be acutely aware that the person who be likely to be President Biden ' s main challenger in November ' s election be almost certainly not in favour of a two - state solution , and neither be the israeli Prime Minister . what be the Prime Minister and the British Government do to use this narrow window of opportunity to push for that two - state solution ? I refer the hon . gentleman to my previous answer . we be absolutely committed to a two - state solution and will work very hard with all our ally to make progress towards that aim . yemeni analyst Hisham Al - Omeisy be no friend of the Houthis — they take he hostage some time ago — but he have be raise concern about the way in which these blunt military action will play into the Houthi narrative against America and the UK . how do the Prime Minister intend to challenge that political narrative and ensure that the yemeni people do not play into Houthi hand because of the action that he be take ? as I say , we be in dialogue with the yemeni Government , and they be do their good to counter the narrative that the hon . Lady mention . also , I would not characterise these as " blunt " strike ; they be actually very deliberate and careful targeted strike on military site , minimise the impact on civilian . we will continue to ensure that that point be hear loud and clear . the Houthis have already say that we should " expect a response " to the strike . Benjamin Netanyahu ' s word have far inflame thing , jeopardise opportunity for peace between Israel and Palestine . there have be attack in Pakistan by Iran . clearly , the situation be escalate . we need all partner to collaborate as well we can if we be to secure a ceasefire , end the attack on shipping and get that two - state solution . the Prime Minister have talk about talk to our ally . will he set out the conversation that he have have with colleague in the European Union , which have its own peace initiative in the region , and where do he think that will get to ? I speak regularly to colleague across Europe , include speak to the belgian Prime Minister just this morning . we will work with all our ally on these issue , as we have do in the past and will continue to do . I believe that we be all united on the outcome we want to see , which be a two - state solution in which Israelis and Palestinians can live side by side with peace , security and dignity . I very much welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement and his clear , firm stance — it be good to have that . what step will he take to far secure safe passage for shipping company , which have be force to increase the price of shipping in order to enhance their protection ? even Church mission in my constituency send humanitarian container to Eswatini in southern Africa be pay increase price for container . what else can be do to alleviate not only this international affront but the direct impact on our constituent , who be already struggle with increase price and stagnant wage ? the hon . Gentleman be right to point out the economic impact of attack on shipping on everyone here at home and across the world . there be a meaningful economic cost to container ship reroute around the Cape of Good Hope . that be an important reason why we must have freedom of navigation and it demonstrate why it be right that we take action . Prosperity Guardian be the operation provide more maritime security in the area . to follow up on the Prime Minister ' s comment on Gaza , 25 , 000 people have now be kill there , so be it not time that our Government do more than express sympathy and instead use their diplomatic power to prevent more death there , start with a UN Security Council motion call for an immediate ceasefire and end arm sale to Israel ? our action be clear : we have treble our aid commitment this year , we be do everything we can to open more crossing , and recently we work to deliver a new humanitarian land corridor from Jordan into Gaza , with 750 tonne of lifesave food and aid arrive on its first delivery . we can be proud of the impact that we be have , but of course , there be more to do , and that be why we will continue to have those conversation to get more aid in . the Prime Minister say that he support a two - state solution . that require his government to recognise the state of Palestine alongside the state of Israel . when will he do that ? the position of this Government be the same as that of previous government and be long - stand : we will recognise a palestinian state at a time that well serve the peace process . there be 21 million people starve and in desperate need of food and aid in Yemen . how will the Prime Minister ensure that the military action take by the British Government do not impede that desperately need humanitarian support ? I refer the hon . Lady to my previous answer . in fact , the Houthis ' disruption of Red sea shipping be harm the yemeni people , who be rely on those corridor to bring aid in . as I say , we be the fourth or fifth large donor to the UN appeal this year , we have contribute £ 1 billion since the conflict begin in 2014 , and we be currently help to feed 100 , 000 people in Yemen every month . it will surely be of great concern that the Royal Navy be now almost too small to carry out its many responsibility , include those that the Prime Minister have tell we about today . can he assure the House that that important issue will be place at the top of the agenda at the next defence review ? I be pleased to tell the hon . Gentleman that the MOD be receive significant extra fund — £ 24 billion at the last spending review , and billion of pound since — to rebuild stockpile and ensure the sustainability of our defence nuclear enterprise . in particular , the Royal Navy have a very ambitious capital programme . as he can see , it have successfully carry out the operation that we need it to carry out , and it deserve our thank and praise for its work . the Prime Minister speak about maritime security in the region , particularly in relation to stem illegal arm get into Yemen . how will the UK ' s ability to contribute to wide maritime security be affect by consideration of decommission HMS Westminster and HMS Argyll after multimillion - pound refit , and when will we make a final decision on whether to mothball HMS Albion and HMS Bulwark ? as the hon . Gentleman can see , we absolutely have the capability and personnel we need to contribute to ally operation such as Prosperity Guardian , and to take action in self - defence , as we have do . we will always ensure that our armed force have the investment that they need , and under this and previous government they have continue to receive very significant investment , which be set to rise in the year ahead . tribute to Sir Tony Lloyd before we proceed with the business , I would like to take the opportunity to remember our late colleague Sir Tony . I first meet Tony almost 30 year ago when I be stand as a candidate in Chorley in the 1997 election . Tony be shadow Foreign Affairs Minister . he come along to Chorley and to Adlington — the village I live in — where , on Sutton Lane , he knock on door . I have to say that it be his charm , passion and good humour that help convince those waver voter to vote for I , so I be forever in his debt . of course , Tony have be in the Commons for quite some time before I . in total , he serve the people of Greater Manchester for 45 year . he be first elect as a member of Trafford Council in 1979 , and , in 1983 , he be elect to this House as the Member for his home town of Stretford . in 1997 , he be return for Manchester Central . by that time , he have be part of the Labour Front - Bench team for over a decade , and Tony Blair appoint he Minister of State in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office , serve under Robin Cook . he remain active in international affair after leave the FCO as leader of the UK delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe , the Western European Union and the Organisation for Security and Co - operation in Europe . he be chair of the parliamentary Labour party from 2006 to 2012 , the long - serve holder of that role during that last Labour Government . he stand down as a Member of Parliament to become the first elect police and crime commissioner for Greater Manchester , but in 2017 , he return to the House as the Member of Parliament for Rochdale . Tony remain an active Member of the House until very recently . in one of his final speech in this House , just last month , he conclude by say : " I think the message that have come across today be that we must fight for the change that we want to see take place . " — [ Official Report , 7 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 184WH . ] that be a fair summary of Tony ' s attitude to public service : he be truly a great Member of Parliament . however , although he take politic seriously , Tony do not take himself seriously . he have a very dry — even mischievous — sense of humour , but overwhelmingly , he leave an impression of kindness and decency on those who deal with he . Tony be an impressive Member of Parliament — he be an impressive person — but his politic be shape by his mother . his father die young ; his mother introduce he into the Labour movement , and it be the Labour movement that shape the person we be talk about today . I will always be in awe of his kindness , his generosity , and the support that he always give I . even on that day as he come out of hospital , Tony be think of other . I be pleased to have have the chance to have a chat with he , to share a few joke and reminisce a bit , but one of the most difficult thing you have to do be phone somebody whose life be come to an end , and I wonder how I could make that phone call . typical of Tony , he make it so easy for I . he be that kind of person : he put I at ease when it be mean to be the other way around . that be the person we be talk about . he make sure that it be not a difficult conversation . I do not know that that would be the last time we would ever speak , but I be so glad that we do . we have not only lose a great colleague and friend ; the country have lose one of its nice and most effective mp . however , while we in this House and those who work for he mourn his loss , our thought be with his family , who be watch today ' s tribute from the Gallery : his wife Judith , his child and his granddaughter . I hope the tribute will give they some comfort in the knowledge that Tony be much love by all side of the House . may you rest in peace , dear Tony . I now call the Leader of the Opposition . the death of Sir Tony Lloyd last week be a great loss to so many people on the Labour Benches and beyond , but the sadness we feel pale in comparison with the grief that Tony ' s family be go through . our heart be with they , and I be pleased that some of Tony ' s family be in the Gallery today : his wife Judith , his child Angharad , Siobhan , Kieron and Alexandria , his son - in - law Paul , his nephew Sean — who I know be like a son to he — and of course his sister Vivian . like you , Mr Speaker , I hope they can take some comfort in the memory and tribute of colleague today , and I hope they see just how much Tony be love and respect here in this House and how much he manage to achieve in his decade of public service . I first meet Tony when I be Director of Public Prosecutions and he be the police and crime commissioner in Greater Manchester . we be at a sexual assault referral clinic in Greater Manchester , St Mary ' s , which work with organisation and individual commit to combat violence against woman and girl , provide safe place for woman and girl to report what have happen to they . it be an incredible model , and I see at first hand Tony ' s commitment to tackle violence against woman and girl . what really strike I when I meet he for that first time be that he have the heart of a true public servant : not grandstand , not pretend that he have all the answer , but quietly and respectfully work with other to deliver . like other , I have be deeply move to read and hear the many tribute to Tony , not just from Labour Members but from member across the House . I thank member across the House for the comfort that the tribute they have pay will have give Tony ' s family . tribute have also be pay by those from the trade union movement , because Tony be a committed trade unionist , and by people who meet Tony in his decade of public service . like you , Mr Speaker , it mean a great deal to I personally to have have the opportunity to speak directly to Tony when he leave hospital for the last time , the Thursday before he die , Thursday week ago . I be able to convey to he at first hand the high esteem in which he be hold by everyone , which I hope give he some comfort and support in those final day . Tony be hold in special high esteem by his staff : Jacob , Iftikhar , Beverley , Arjeera , Megan and Chris , and of course Tricia , his close friend and political confidante in Rochdale . indeed , many of those in Tony ' s tight - knit group of friend use to work for he , and I know that they be by his side in his final day . that be a true tribute to Tony : he treat people as kindly and warmly behind close door as he do publicly , and he treat those who work for he with the respect and dignity he expect everybody to be treat with . some member of the House know that Tony follow the red on two front : he be commit to the Labour party , but he be also a passionate supporter of Manchester United . Tony and I agree on a lot of thing , but not on that . as we all know , though , his love for Manchester go beyond football . a former irish ambassador who I have get to know well , and who work closely with Tony when he be the shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , remember receive from Tony what he describe as a " whimsical Mancunian take on irish history " , show not just Tony ' s typical knowledge of his subject but the great sense of humour and poignancy that he be know for . across the country , Tony have a huge impact as the MP for Rochdale ; across the United Kingdom , he champion co - operation , collaboration and community ; and across the world , he promote peace , chair Labour Friends of Ukraine and support human right and democracy in Belarus . however , he still always have the time for the little thing that matter so much to member of this House — a friendly word and some encouragement , with that twinkle in his eye that everybody who have ever meet he know and will remember . just a few day before he die , Tony publish what would turn out to be his final article in his local paper . he write about his hope for 2024 — for peace in the middle east and across the world . he write of the need to help the NHS off its knee , particularly have just experience its care first hand . he write of the importance of action on climate change to make sure that we can pass our planet on to our child , and he write about education and the need to invest in young people . Tony might not be able to lead the fight for that well world he hope for , but those of we he leave behind will , and we will have he in mind as we continue to fight for the cause he be passionate about , the value he live , and the people he serve throughout his entire life . may he rest in peace . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] last week , the whole House be deeply sadden by the loss of one of our long - serve and most respected member , Sir Tony Lloyd . I offer my sincere condolence and those of the whole Government to his wife , Judith , their child and grandchild , and all of his friend and family . Tony and I of course come from different political tradition , but I deeply respect he as a man of great integrity , compassion and humour , a gentle , but fierce advocate for his constituent and his value , and a dedicated parliamentarian . he love this House , he say , for the " shenanigan of the place " , and it have say everything about his pragmatic and warm approach to politic that we have hear and will hear so many heartfelt tribute to he from all side of this House . for Tony , politic be always about people . that begin , of course , with his constituent in Rochdale and his home city of Manchester . bear in Stretford , within cheering distance of his beloved Old Trafford , he spend 36 year as a Member of Parliament and serve as a police and crime commissioner , truly live up to his nickname , Mr Manchester . Tony give an interview while recover from covid that give we the full measure of the man . all of Tony ' s humanity be there — his empathy , his value . he talk of watch a young nurse gently feed an old man opposite , reflect , in his word , " that there be more to life than the next parcel from Amazon . it ' s what bind we as a human family really . that enormous decency . " Tony be an enormously decent man , who give his life to public service . from local government to crime , Northern Ireland and , perhaps most enduringly , foreign affair , he be a principled and tireless public servant who make a real difference to the life of people here and around the world . Mr Speaker , as you say , in his penultimate contribution in this House , Tony say that " change can happen , and … we must fight for the change that we want to see " . — [ Official Report , 7 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 184WH . ] from the beginning of his career right to the end , Tony Lloyd live those word . he be a great family man , a great man of Manchester and a great man of the House of Commons . he will be miss , but he and the change he fight for and achieve will never be forget . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I call the SNP spokesperson . I want to send our sincere condolence to Tony ' s family from the SNP Benches . I also want to say a few word personally about Tony . I do not know he very well , but I have one very vivid recollection . one evening , in the covid tent that be set up on the terrace , I go to meet an SNP colleague for a little light refreshment , and at the table with she be Tony Lloyd and Stephen Pound . Mr Speaker , we almost get throw out of that covid tent — not because we be drink so much , but because we be laugh so much . I think every time someone say something , either Stephen or Tony , maybe a wee bit myself and my colleague , just cap each other , and those who be in that tent probably remember the racket . everyone — everyone — be look at we and wonder what it be we find so funny . I can not remember what it be we find so funny , but it be just one of those evening where you go away feel well . thereafter , every time I meet Tony , he speak to I . I probably fully understand what Tony ' s family be go through , have be widow myself . my late husband use to say , " Marion , hen , most people get into politic to help other people " . I think that be Tony , and I be so glad I meet he . I speak to he very recently in the Chamber , and he give I his lovely smile , nod and ask I how I be — and the day feel well . it be a bit presumptuous of I to say that thing get well , but I know they do . I also know that it be always good to look back and remember those we love who be go with a smile , and I be sure that will be easy in time for Tony ' s family . I call the Father of the House . one of the interesting quotation in Wikipedia have Tony Lloyd ' s word : " the basic morality of politic be instill in I . I have always think if not fight for what ' s right and just , then what be politic for ? " my recommendation to anybody come into this place , and one I try to take myself , be to try to earn the tribute that Tony Lloyd have earn . when we have the sad duty to pay tribute to hon . or right hon . member , it be often the case that the fact get gild , in a sense , to help the family . there be absolutely no need to embellish the fact when it come to Tony . quite simply , Tony be a decent man , who dedicate his life to public service . Tony be first elect to Trafford Council on the same day that Margaret Thatcher become Prime Minister , which mean that his first 18 year as an elect representative be probably more difficult than most people ' s first 18 year . he very soon , four year after he have be elect as a councillor , become the Member of Parliament for Stretford , and I want to mention two thing about that . it mean that he represent Manchester United and Manchester City — both ground be in that constituency — and Tony , who be fair with all his constituent all his life , be I suspect not completely even - hand between the Reds and the blue at Manchester . he be delighted to go into the director ’ box at Old Trafford , and I think the last early - day motion he put down be a very good tribute to Bobby Charlton when he pass away recently . one of the sadness of Tony pass be that he campaign against , and lead a debate in Westminster Hall on , the Glazers ' parasitic ownership of Manchester United , and as the Glazers be on the way out , I think Tony would have be delighted to see their demise . when Tony become the MP for Stretford , which include Moss Side , I become leader of the council shortly afterwards , and we both have to deal with many of the problem that there be in Moss Side at that time . I think it would be fair to say that Tony work tirelessly to improve the relationship between the different community and the public service in Moss Side , because we be still in the aftermath of the 1981 riot in Moss Side . I think it be also fair to say — he take this into his job later as police and crime commissioner — that he be not a supporter of James Anderton ' s rather brutal tactic in Moss Side , and he see it as part of his job to improve relation between the community , not to make they bad . Tony take a similar attitude when he move to Manchester Central . although he love represent Manchester United , he be always the political realist , and he could see that there be likely to be a much large majority in Manchester Central than there be in Stretford , so he move to Manchester Central . again , he have a difficult ward in Cheetham , and he dedicate his time to improve relation in that ward . he never say this to I directly , but I think it be his experience of see the damage that poor policing could do that motivate he to become the police and crime commissioner for Greater Manchester . in some way more importantly , Tony be the first non - elect mayor for Greater Manchester to use those skill of bring community together in bring the 10 local authority of Greater Manchester together . Greater Manchester have a reputation for the authority work together , but that do not just happen on its own . authority be often jealous of each other , leader of council be jealous of member of Parliament and they be certainly jealous of mayor , elect or not , and Tony use his skill to bring people together . Tony be calm , which do not mean he always toe the party line : on Iraq and Trident , for instance , I be pleased to walk through the Lobby with he . he do not agree with the current Labour party policy on the middle east , but again it be do in a calm and thoughtful way . and when the war memorial in Rochdale be desecrate with pro - palestinian , anti - british Government write and by people chant racist , antisemitic slogan , Tony be the first person to call it out . this House , the people of Rochdale and the people of Greater Manchester will greatly miss Tony ' s contribution to our political life . it be with great sadness that I rise and say goodbye to Tony Lloyd . he be a man of great courtesy , he be a great parliamentarian , and I be so glad that both the Leader of the Opposition and the Prime Minister have pay such fulsome tribute to he . I much enjoy his company when I have the opportunity to speak to he , and I also want to recognise his independence of mind , as the hon . member for Blackley and Broughton ( Graham Stringer ) just say , regard the question of Iraq , which be a huge issue for those on the labour side . he speak for the Labour party with an independence of mind and an authority that certainly attract I to listen to what he have to say when he speak . I would also like to pay tribute to he not only as the Mayor of Greater Manchester but as the Member for Rochdale and , by way of a personal anecdote , I would like to put on record my thank . in 2017 he help to organise and speak at the commemoration of John Bright in Rochdale Quaker cemetery ; he play a very important part not only in put the event together but in the celebration and commemoration that take place afterwards . he recognise the greatness of other people ' s contribution to the history of Rochdale , such as that of John Bright , and bright ' s commitment to democracy . I can only say that as the Member for Rochdale , although sadly no long , he represent the very good of what John Bright represent when he himself be a Member of Parliament in this country for so long . so I just want to pay tribute to his family — to offer my condolence to Judith and the family — and to say thank you , Tony , for all you do . I hope these heartfelt tribute to Sir Tony Lloyd be a source of comfort to his family . I say to they that those of we who be lucky enough to know he for a little while know he to be an absolutely lovely man : kind , and respect in all part of the House . you should be really proud of he . I say to the Labour family that I know he be an integral part of the Labour party for so many year and I know you be proud of he , and justifiably so . he stand up for Labour party principle and his own principle as an individual MP represent his constituency . I have speak to Liberal Democrat colleague in Manchester who remember Tony as the sort of person who would reach out to other party to make sure that the people of Manchester be the prime objective in the work that politician of all party be try to do . it be no surprise that he decide to leave this House to go and be the police and crime commissioner , where he serve with real distinction to try to make the life of everyone in Manchester well . he be a Mancunian at his heart , as we hear from the former leader of the council , the hon . member for Blackley and Broughton ( Graham Stringer ) . I also remember Tony as a strong internationalist ; that be a real theme in the work that he do . in his last speech in this House , he be support and stand up for the universal declaration of human right . he vote against the Iraq war . he be an internationalist and put his belief into what he do . my personal experience of Sir Tony from listen to he in this House be that his calm , thoughtful and respectful intervention be often hear in silence because people want to hear what he have to say . my particular remembrance be from a cross - party visit to Israel and Palestine in 2009 . we go to town in southern Israel such as Ashkelon , and we go to the west bank and Gaza . we be at the border crossing in Gaza and be not be let in ; it be a prearranged trip , but we be not be allow in and we be there for several hour . we ring the british ambassador ; that do not work . but Tony have the idea of ring the BBC , and within an hour the BBC be report that a cross - party group of british mps be not be allow into Gaza , and it be amazing how quickly we be allow in . that show the measure of Tony : a principled pragmatist , get through issue , understand how thing work . my advice to colleague be when go on foreign trip , always take a former Foreign Office Minister with you , because that come in quite handy . we will not forget he ; no one who meet he — whether constituent , member of this House or , frankly , anyone around the world who meet he — will ever forget Tony . he will live in our heart and memory . I feel humble to be able to speak about Tony . he shadow I when I be Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and it be always a pleasure and an honour to be able to have a private conversation with he . yes , across the Dispatch Box we might have our disagreement , but behind the scene I know that we could have a proper , open , frank conversation . and I will say this about conversation with Tony : I learn something from every one of they . every single time we speak there be something new — there be a different perspective that Tony give I , a different way of think about thing , and he help I enormously in the task we both have to try to restore devolved government to Northern Ireland when I be Secretary of State and he shadow I . after that time we remain close and would regularly chat about Northern Ireland and what be go on . we often talk about football as well , despite support team from different side of Manchester . we always have a great conversation and he be always generous and warm and witty . I be very honoured that last month he be able to co - host with I an event that the British Group Inter - Parliamentary Union hold to mark the 75th anniversary of the universal declaration of human right . Tony be Tony , he go around every stall ; every possible person meet Tony , and he be warm , he be kind , he be generous , and they know that he be engage and listen to they , which be a rare quality in the people we come across . last week the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) and I be both at a BGIPU conference and our admin official be Joe Perry , who be the new BGIPU recruit . Joe work in Tony ' s office for many year and we could see just how much he be affect by the loss of Tony — the shock of it , but also the sense of loss of somebody so special to he , somebody who have give he so much . I be very pleased that the three of we be able to spend a little bit of time to toast Tony ; we find somewhere he would have like and it be nice to be able to raise a glass to a good friend and somebody we will all miss desperately . rise — I call the chair of the parliamentary Labour party , John Cryer . like you , Mr Speaker , I meet Tony about 30 year ago in the run - up to the 1997 general election . I think then , and have continue to think ever since , what a tolerant and restrained man he be , even when he feel strongly . I have to say I be not particularly tolerant or restrain in those day ; I would like to think I learn something from Tony — I think I do over the year . those quality stand he in great stead when he become chair of the parliamentary Labour party . he take over at a time when the tension — I be be slightly euphemistic — between Tony Blair and Gordon Brown be at their sharp . he be able to guide the plp through that period . it be extraordinary to think that when Tony come into this place , Michael Foot be leader of the Labour party . I think I be right that he serve under nine labour leader . on longevity , I remember Tony tell I many year ago that as a young boy , he see the Busby babe play , with the great Duncan Edwards . he must have be one of the last people still alive who could say that they see Manchester United before the Munich crash . in conclusion , Tony ' s tolerance and restraint be an exemplar . there be an awful lot of people — not just in here , but outside as well — who could usefully learn a few lesson from Tony . I add my condolence to those of colleague ; Tony be a man who command universal respect across the House and beyond . although for most of my time as a Member of Parliament , Tony be a fellow MP , I get to know he well when he be out of the House of Commons as the first Mayor of Greater Manchester , follow on from be the police and crime commissioner — indeed , he combine the two . he be appoint on 29 May 2015 , two week after I have be appoint Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government . it be an absolute pleasure to work closely with Tony during those two year . create the first big city Mayor outside Greater London be a big deal . it have not be do for many decade , so it be important that it should be a success not only for Greater Manchester , which be go to elect its Mayor , but for the whole country , because we want to encourage other great city across the UK to follow that route . the first Mayor be crucial . Tony be select by borough leader across Greater Manchester , and he prove to be the perfect inaugural Mayor with his easy - go charm and ability to work well not only with the three party who be lead the borough of Greater Manchester , but with a Conservative Government . the experience he have of this place and of ministerial office build the confidence in the role of Mayor of Greater Manchester — the confidence that it could be entrust with power and responsibility devolve from this place . that prove to be a template not just for further devolution to Greater Manchester , but for the whole country . I enjoy work with Tony during that time not only because of his courteousness and effectiveness , but due to his tenacity , which colleague across the House will remember . without his sure - footed leadership , not only the mayoralty of Greater Manchester but those of other city region might not have take root in the way that they have . Tony be not one to trumpet his own attribute and achievement , as have be say , but in those two short year as Mayor of Greater Manchester he create a great legacy , not just for the city of which he be so proud , but for the country as a whole . we send his family our sincere condolence . I first meet Tony Lloyd in 1988 . my husband Colin and I be look for help put on an Amnesty International showing of artwork to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the UN declaration of human right . I contact Tony , whom I have not meet previously , and he help we to arrange the showing of those artwork at Manchester central library . we also manage to have a fantastic launch event at the library , feature Tony and some actor from " Coronation Street " . the wholeheartedness with which he support what we want to do with that event on human right be typical of Tony . Tony be the MP for Stretford at the time I become a councillor on Trafford Council . have be a Trafford councillor himself , as we have hear , Tony be a great mentor for all of we new councillor who be elect when we win Trafford Council in 1995 . I can remember Tony and Judith at our Trafford labour social event , and in particular his very good salsa dancing . Tony have a remarkable record of service as an MP in Trafford and Manchester , our police and crime commissioner , the interim Mayor and , most recently , the MP for Rochdale . he be also the long - serve chair of the parliamentary Labour party . in all those role , Tony have a substantial influence on our political life , particularly in Greater Manchester and the north - west , but more widely in his role as a committed internationalist . the final thing I want to pay tribute to be Tony Lloyd ' s sheer decency and humanity . I thank he for his friendship and support across the year , and I want to send love to Judith , his child — Siobhan , Angharad , Kieron and Alexandria — all the family and Tony ' s staff . we will miss he terribly . I be not go to talk for long , because a lot of people know Tony well than I do , but for the past four year I have the privilege of share a borough with he . I be his constituency neighbour , and a well friend and neighbour you could not ask for . I be try to think of anecdote I could use to sum up how good a friend he be to I , but as have be allude to , Tony ' s sense of humour be very dry , which mean I can not repeat quite a few of those anecdote in the Chamber . I will touch on a couple of incident . the first be on 13 December , when a bleary - eyed , newly - elect MP for Heywood and Middleton reach out of the bed to grab their phone , which be ring . it be Tony on the other end , who be clearly in a lot well condition than I . he say , " I think we should probably get together so I can get you up to speed . " this be a man who have just be through a tough election , and his first thought be get his constituent ' need deal with , because there have be a transition on the other side of the borough . there be a lovely story that come off the back of that , but it be not repeatable , so member should find I in Strangers later . it be the mark of the man . if we be talk about the spirit of co - operativism that be Rochdale , Tony embody that . that service never wane , even when his health do . most recently , I speak with Tony one - on - one at the Holodomor commemoration . Tony do fantastic work with the ukrainian community , especially in our borough . we be stand there in the freezing cold , and I be close enough to he at that point to ask how his treatment be go , and he start ask question about how I be do personally . he be so sanguine about it , and he just keep go . we be exchange casework pretty much up to the last . this be a man who give his all for something he really care about . he be a parliamentarian ' s parliamentarian , but he be also a fantastic local community representative . we use a lot of superlative in this job — we talk about thing be awesome , big and grand — but a word that carry a lot more weight for I be " good " . Tony do not just do good ; he be good . a lot have be say about our friend Tony Lloyd , such as the service he give to the people of Greater Manchester over his long and distinguished career as Trafford councillor , MP for Stretford , MP for Manchester Central , police and crime commissioner for Greater Manchester , interim Mayor of Greater Manchester , MP for Rochdale , Minister , shadow Minister — we can rattle they all off . Tony be a friend , and somebody who I will miss greatly . I first get to know Tony at the 1992 summer Young labour residential — I be young once . I be bill it as a residential , but it be actually in Manchester . it be at the GMB National College in Whalley Range . it be now the British Muslim Heritage Centre and the site of the constituency office of my hon . friend the Member for Manchester , Gorton ( Afzal Khan ) , but back then it be the GMB National College . a number of mps from across the north - west region and beyond come to talk to all these eager young labour activist . we be a little dejected , because we have be through a general election that we should have win , but we do not , and the rest be history . Tony do not just come to the college and chat to us youngster , but he stay with we afterwards . everybody else disappear — they have more important thing to do — but Tony stay with we , to encourage we to keep up the fight and to stand for what we believe in . he do like a beer , and he even do the karaoke afterwards , but he be all about support young people and encourage they into politic and to chase and follow their dream . I do not think he would remember , but when I be elect in 2005 as the MP for Denton and Reddish , he come over to I in the Members ' Tea Room and say , " I remember you do karaoke , Andrew . " I say , " well , Tony , I remember you do karaoke , and it wasn ' t that great . " over the last 19 year , we serve together in this place . we sit in the shadow Cabinet together . he be a great shadow Northern Ireland Secretary who really believe in reach out across the community and bring people together . he fight for internationalism , whether it be for the people of Colombia , the people of Palestine or the Kashmiri people with whom I do a lot of work with Tony when he be MP for Rochdale . he be a socialist and an internationalist . he believe in social justice . he be an exceptional public servant . he be both a gentle man and a gentleman . God bless you , Tony , and thank you to Judith , the family and the staff for share such a lovely man with the Labour party . I be deeply honour to speak , as I serve with Tony on the International Trade Committee for three year . he be always there to give this young upstart some good , impartial advice . he be kind and generous , and always have a balanced view about what should and should not be do . he have the good interest of Parliament at heart . his be an extraordinary service to Parliament and an extraordinary example to any young Member enter this place . I write to he last year when he fall ill . in the midst of his treatment , he send back a letter not complain or utter anything about his personal circumstance but say how much he miss be in this place and how much he be look forward to get back here . when I see he a month ago , I be so pleased to be able to have a last word with he and say what an extraordinary example he be to so many . I think about what would be an acceptable anecdote to tell . at one point , I say to he , " I ' m a bit stuck , Tony . I ' ve get a constituency engagement come up and I ' m not entirely sure what the funny story be that I will be able to tell . " I do not know whether this happen to he or be one of those apocryphal story , but he look at I and say , " how about this one ? I have some constituent come to see I : a mother , a father and a son . they be stand in Central Lobby as the Division bell go , and the Doorkeepers and the police be all shuffle about . the father say to the mother , ' what ' s that ? what do that mean ? ' out of nowhere , the boy say , ' it mean one of they have escape . ' " [ Laughter . ] that be his gift to I — a good sense of humour — and now it be pass on to all hon . member to use at association event . Tony be an extraordinary man . I be so pleased and fortunate to have ever be able to meet he . I send my very good to his family . my thought be with Tony ' s family in the Gallery , and also his staff , past and present . many of they will be mourn a man who make a great impact in their life . I know Tony for well over 25 year as a colleague and a friend . of course , we share the two red idea . I have to say that one of the red be clearly come up nicely — and I hope the football team also get well . [ laughter . ] the other thing that I share with Tony be our community relation work in Greater Manchester , where I find he incredible . as a colleague and mentor to I when I join the Labour party , he help I with many great political challenge and fight , include win my Cheetham Hill seat from the Lib Dems and the late Qasim Afzal . when I become a Member of the European Parliament , the fight be with Nick Griffin , who represent the north - west . again , Tony be a star — he know exactly what need to be do at the right time and what need to be say . it be the same when it come to George Galloway — I have have my share from both the left and the right . I always find Tony to be an absolute gem . with his experience , his balanced idea and his clarity of thought , I always find myself in a good place . he be an unfailingly warm , friendly and kind individual . he could always be rely on for support , whatever campaign or issue we be work on , and he be always available to intervene in obscure Westminster Hall or Adjournment debate . despite be gentle and modest , he be a sharp politician who know exactly how this place work and how he could use it to get the good for his constituent . I know that because Tony represent Whalley Range — an area in my constituency — and even now , long - term resident still remember he and talk fondly about how he sort out their housing , their immigration or whatever issue they have some 30 year ago . as a councillor , a Member of Parliament , a police and crime commissioner and interim Mayor , Tony touch the life of everyone in Greater Manchester . he will be miss here in Parliament and , most importantly , by people back home in Manchester and Rochdale , whom he never miss an opportunity to champion . may he rest in peace . I be grateful for the chance to participate . Tony be a calm and decent man and a gentleman . when I be elect in 1997 , I be one of two conservative mp in Greater Manchester — and in 2001 I be one of one — but , right from the start , Tony be one of those who help to set the tone for the way in which , regardless of party , we all work together in the interest of the city and the region . I always value that enormously . that be an example to all member of how we serve the wide public and not just our party or our own interest . oddly , then , the other thing I will say in give my condolence to the family and pay tribute to Tony be that I come across he again in particular in 2010 , when I be elect chairman of the 1922 committee and he be the chairman of the parliamentary Labour party . there we both be in our respective party role , but also find ourselves work together , perhaps more often than I have ever expect , and I have find that since , with his two successor in my time as chairman of the ' 22 . I always value his advice . it be remarkable how often he be able to give I , as the new boy look after the 1922 committee , advice and guidance from his experience of deal with the PLP . he will be miss and he set an example for we all that I hope will be follow . I wish to pass on my sincere condolence and sympathy to the family of Tony on his passing . I get to know Tony Lloyd just after his return to the House in 2017 , and then when he be appoint as the Labour party ' s Northern Ireland spokesperson . a very senior member of the Labour party have the ultimate responsibility when come to Northern Ireland to meet with the innocent victim of terrorism . despite my good effort to get that person to meet they , Tony come to I and say , " I will meet they , Gregory . " I say , " thank you very much , Tony . " I arrange a meeting , which be the first time I have be in close proximity to Tony in a meeting with a small group of people , as oppose to in the Chamber . initially , I feel deeply touch by his empathy , how he listen to the trauma of many people who have suffer at the hand of terror , and how he very calmly and patiently respond to each and every person . I deeply appreciate that , but what strike I even more be that after he finish his term as Labour Front - Bench spokesperson for Northern Ireland and he no long have that responsibility , one day he sit behind I in the Chamber , tap I on the shoulder and say , " Gregory , I would like to meet those people again . " he do not have to , he do not need to , but he do . again , he show and demonstrate his empathy . in preparation for these few word , this morning I be remind of how we should be remind of all our mortality at this occasion . as the old book say : " what do God require of we ? to act justly , to love mercy and to walk humbly with our God . " Tony be one of the good of we : a decent , kind man dedicate to help people . as we have hear today , often he be unassuming and he never showboate the brilliant work he do . such be his commitment to public service , he rarely feel comfortable take personal credit for the great work he do , prefer to quietly and furiously work in the background to get do what need to be do . his career be never about he but about the people he be try to lift up . because of that , Tony be love . there be so many story and message of warmth from his friend and colleague , and I have just a few that I want to share . Ian Stewart , a close friend who be formerly the MP for Eccles and then Mayor of Salford , say : " Tony phone I before Christmas ( he must have be in hospital when he phone , although he didn ' t mention that ) . he say he want arrange a meal and a drink with I . I explain that Mez be ill and we think she might have Covid . I suggest that he and I should get together as we regularly do either between Christmas and New Year or early January . he agree but then calmly say he love I and Mez and that I should let she know that . first and foremost Tony be a true and close friend of 50 year . he be a real trade union socialist , with a good heart and a strong desire to help those in need . he be a Statistician by trade lecture at the University of Salford when we first meet . People be always bemuse when they find out he be good at math . Tony be a product of the post war Labour Government ' s Welfare State and Education System . which he never forget . I run his campaign to become the Chair of the parliamentary trade union group . I run his campaign to become the Chair of the parliamentary Labour Party . I have great respect for he as a politician and dear friend . in 1988 , Tony be the first politician to be interested in and support the creation of the synergistic social partnership model for good governance and socially just resolution of complex problem . Tony and I be invite to attend our friend Chan Singhs inauguration as the Temple President of a Manchester Sikh Temple and we wear Turbans together . we look the part . he be part of that small group of politician who be underestimate ; underrated ; and underuse in Parliament . his quiet , calm manner belie the gut instinct and passionate reaction to inequality and lack of social justice experience by oppress community , whether at work , in the community , in the UK or Sub Saharan Africa . he have be the Minister for Sub Saharan Africa in the Blair Government . he be a genuine internationalist , and understand the real global implication and need to battle against neoliberalism at home and abroad . a genuine man of the people . and one of the few politician I will miss share a meal and a drink with . " the hon . member for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) , who can not be here today as he be recover from an operation , ask I to share this funny story : " he be so special and a warm character but there be also a very naughty side to he and I ' d like to share this story about he . I ' d miss breakfast and I be really quite hungry and be hope the delicious jerk chicken would be on offer and head off to " the Debate " , the cafeteria in Portcullis House in eager anticipation . but imagine my disappointment when walk up to the entrance to cafeteria and look up at menu board to see the row of usually pack canteen serve station totally empty , no staff and no customer . there ' d be some sort of problem and service be disrupt and there ' d be no lunch in the Debate today . I try to take in the full extent of this lunchtime disaster . I be stand there , open mouthed in disbelief , with my hand still outstretche in automatic pilot poise to pick up a tray from the pile to put my non existent food on , as if in total denial and unable to compute , whilst simultaneously scour the sad notice of temporary closure that only serve to reinforce my disappointment and with it the dawn realisation that I ' d be eat somewhere else today . I must have have a look on my face of complete bewilderment and disappointment in equal measure , when my friend Tony Lloyd , who have observe my frozen form as he make his way through PCH , quietly walk up to my side , still invisible to I , and say very gently and so caringly , with a wicked twinkle in his eye : ' be there a daughter we could ring ? ' rest in peace Tony . " Paul Dennett , the Mayor of Salford , say : " Sir Tony Lloyd MP be a great man , a person & politician of great integrity , someone who often do the right thing quietly , without fear or favour , a great friend of Salford & its people . my thought & prayer be with Tony ' s family & friend at this time " . outside the world of politic , Tony ' s real and unending love be for his family , and it be in that context that I first meet he . at the age of five , in Stretford , he be my first ever MP , although I do not know that at the time , when I be run around his and his wife Judith ' s house , drive everyone mad playing " she - Ra : Princess of Power " with his daughter Siobhan , who be my friend at school . we be usually have a row about who would be in the role of she - Ra that day , cause Tony or Judith to have to come and sort out the problem diplomatically . I remember a house and family full of love and warmth , and a family who often support mine . it be only year later that I realise what Tony actually do for a job . that be important because , grow up , there be a tendency to believe that mp be in some special class of their own , and that people from background like mine could not be mps . but Tony be different . he be one of we , a man of the people , and a proud member and supporter of the irish diaspora in Manchester . he give I the courage to believe that if he have become an MP and could serve to help people , then maybe — just maybe — people like I could do it , too . I send all of Salford ' s deep love and prayer to Judith , Siobhan , Angharad , Kieron , Ali , Carmen , Carys and all Tony ' s family and love one . to Tony , I say : " you be an inspiration to all of we in this place . if we can be just one ounce of the good man that you be then I know the world will be far well , kind place . " it be a special politician who get a tribute cover the whole front page of the Manchester Evening News with the headline " an example of honesty , principle and kindness " , a quote take from comment from the Mother of the House but echo by so many in recent day . the tribute often mention what an outstanding public servant Tony be , and what a good , kind person he be . he be always ready with a kind word to I in difficult time ; in particular , I remember his sympathy when my mum die . to those of we who have be involve in Greater Manchester politic for a long time , Tony be a giant . his record of public service be unparalleled — as a councillor , MP , police and crime commissioner and Mayor , he be a hugely respected and influential figure . he will be miss across great Manchester , but also across Parliament . the respect he be hold in on all side of the House be clear today and in recent day . perhaps what I admire most about Tony be that his contribution be always so thoughtful . they come from a place of principle , and he always have great conviction , but he be always measure and able to look at the big picture with great knowledge and experience . his wisdom will be miss across this House . as a long - time resident of Chorlton in my constituency , he will be miss by the local community . as a familiar face on Beech Road , he be like by everyone . among many tribute , I be touch to see the following write by staff from Ludo ' s deli on Beech Road : " we be all very sad at Ludo ' s . one of our lovely customer , so supportive . I ' m already miss he and all the lovely chat we have about everything and nothing . all our thought be with his family and friend " — as be all our thought today . finally , he will be miss by his friend in the Bowling Green and the other pub in Chorlton , where he like to chat about politic or Manchester United over a pint , and especially by his colleague in our local Labour party , who admire and respect he so much . it be so sad that today we be pay tribute to our dear friend and colleague , and my constituency neighbour , Tony . I have listen to so many story this afternoon , and it be a testament to the person Tony be that people from all side of the House have speak so strongly about he . I hope that provide some comfort to his family and his staff , who I know love he so much . one thing that stick out be not only the enormous impact that Tony have on british politic , but the high regard in which he be hold , which be quite unusual in this place . what have really stand out be that almost everyone have an individual story and mention his kindness . I absolutely agree with that . my recollection be of the kindness he show I when I be a new MP and he be chair of the parliamentary Labour party . as police and crime commissioner , Tony organise a roundtable on tackle violence against woman and girl . he invite I along because he know that I be passionate about that . he show such empathy to the woman who be there because of their experience . I also remember his help in a constituency case for a mum who have lose her son to murder . again , the way he be with she be quite remarkable . most recently , when we know that Tony be poorly , I be really keen to organise a Parliamentarians for Peace event — thank you for that , Mr Speaker — and as soon as I send the message around , he be the first to respond , say , " yes , we must do something . I ' ll be there . " unfortunately , he be not able to be there , but I know that he absolutely want to be . Tony be the embodiment of politic as public service : deeply humble , conscientious and compassionate . he work tirelessly in the interest of his constituent , not for himself . as a constituency neighbour , I know the work that Tony put into his work in Rochdale . he call I just before Christmas , because there be a particular issue that he say he need my help on and wonder whether the wording of a letter be just right . the way he work be so collaborative ; it be quite special . Tony be not interested in politic as a game or a sport . he be passionate about change life and our politic be the vehicle to do just that . I will always think about his poignant word when speak to a young constituent : " for I politic be about all people , it ' s that sense of human solidarity that matter . if it ' s not about make people ' s live well , don ' t be a politician . " I ask all colleague , in Tony ' s memory , to redouble our effort to make people ' s live well . rest in peace , Tony . I first meet Sir Tony about 10 year ago . like my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) , I be young once . at the time , I be active in Young Labour and be fundraise for Hazel Grove constituency Labour party in Stockport . Tony do not know I , but his office be helpful and he make the time to come to Hazel Grove and fundraise for a CLP that at that time have no labour councillor and a Liberal Democrat MP . not only do he come to the fundraiser , but he spend the entire evening with we and speak to each and every person . we have a table for young labour activist and he go over and speak to each and every one of they . he inspire I and many people on that table . many be now labour councillor and Labour party activist . his demeanour be very soft : he speak softly and choose his word wisely . many colleague on both side of the House have say that we could all learn from the way he conduct himself . it have also be mention that he be an internationalist . he believe in a well world for everyone , both in the UK and across the world . I remember invite he to speak at an event at the Mechanics ' Institute in Manchester in 2017 for the Cuba solidarity campaign , support by Unison the trade union . he impress we all with his spanish skill : he deliver part of his speech in fluent Spanish and he be also able to translate . I be in awe of he , because I have want to learn Spanish for a long time and have never quite manage to get there . he be give a speech and , out of nowhere , keep move between Spanish and English . it be quite impressive . when I be in the Labour Whips Office , he be in my group and I have frequent interaction with he . he be always very kind with his time . unfortunately , when he be not well recently he ask I to be his proxy vote in the parliamentary Labour party and , for a while , in the Chamber . I remember my last conversation with he . he be come up those stair into the Chamber and say to I , " we be suppose to have that pint . " I say , " Tony , please let I know what work for you and I will take you to my favourite pub in Stockport to have a fine pint of cider . " he say that he would . one of my last message to he on WhatsApp be on 29 December . I say , " Tony , I hope you be well . please let I know if you have any availability and I would love to have that pint with you . " he do not respond and I be a bit disappointed , but when I message he two day later , on 31 December , to wish he a very happy new year , he respond straightaway . look at my message , his last message be to wish I a happy and successful 2024 . a lot of people have say — and I agree with they — that he will leave a massive hole in Greater Manchester politic , but I think it be big than that : he will leave a massive hole in british politic . it be uncommon for someone to be remember fondly on both side of the House , particularly a politician , so it be nice to see that there be colleague from all the major party here to speak about their memory of Sir Tony . on behalf of the people of Stockport , my thought and prayer be with his family , his friend and his staff member . colleague have already ably describe Tony ' s internationalism , socialism and trade unionism , but as one of my predecessor as Member of Parliament for Stretford , I want to pay tribute today to his local work , his collegiate nature and the way he go about his business . his personal style be unique , but it be also incredibly impressive . Tony be a true son of Stretford . bear and raise locally , he be extremely well - regarded and conscientious as a constituency MP from 1983 to 1987 , even if be bear locally make it inevitable that he be a fan of Manchester United — you can eventually learn to forgive that in a person . he be know locally not only as a man of absolute principle — the person that so many of we be familiar with here — but as a person who get thing do for the community . indeed , during my own election campaign that lead to I come to this place in 2022 , Tony , who make frequent visit to the campaign trail , be often recognise by local resident and his time as an MP remember favourably . what be all the more remarkable be the fact that he often recognise those resident too , some 25 year after he have cease to be the MP for Stretford . but that be Tony all over . he treat everybody he meet with courtesy . he earn respect because he give it without question . there have be many tribute to Tony in recent week , but the one that chime with I most be from a former member of Tony ' s staff team who say that the thing she admire most be that he always treat working - class people with respect , and that that mean everything , especially to people who have rarely be treat like that before . it may sound like a small thing , but it be less common than it should be , and what a mark of the man . I guess in total I have know Tony for almost 20 year , but it be when I become the group leader on Trafford Council and Tony be the police and crime commissioner and then the interim Mayor of Greater Manchester that I first see he in action . that was , as we have hear , an incredibly tough gig , but Tony go about it with his usual inclusiveness and he be truly exceptional ; a famously international person who know that , when all be say and do , for real work people all politic be local . he also understand that crime be a work - class issue , which be what have drive he to become the pcc in the first place . he care about the people and community he serve , and that shine through . whether in this Chamber , in his constituency , or indeed have a pint with he in the Beech in Chorlton with our mutual friend Councillor Thomas Robinson , that spirit of public service shine through . Tony ' s approach to serve people be the same as his approach to support colleague : human solidarity . that quiet word , that nod of encouragement , that message to keep go . the phone call he make to I in November because he have hear I be have some issue in the constituency , just to check that I be okay and to make sure that I feel support . we hear similar from the hon . member for Heywood and Middleton ( Chris Clarkson ) . it be something he also extend to my own mother when she be face a tough election campaign in 2016 . I will always remember the phone call that he make to she at 4 am , have get the number from Judith , to congratulate she on her re - election . Tony really be an outstanding man . when I look for the word that sum he up well , I find that it be " thoughtfulness . " he be an exceptional parliamentarian , he be an outstanding community politician , but above all he be fundamentally a thoroughly decent man . we have hear much about the many role that Tony play during his time in politic , in the House , in the Labour party , as a police and crime commissioner , and as the interim Mayor of Greater Manchester . he be also a champion of the underdog , someone we could all learn from and someone I absolutely look up to . he be a great friend of mine from his time as the shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland . I be a newbie in this place in 2019 , and he help I to navigate the corridor and the strange rule that govern this place . the chair of the parliamentary Labour party , the hon . member for Leyton and Wanstead ( John Cryer ) , talk about Tony ' s tolerance and restraint . I can tell you , Mr Speaker , that when he be the shadow Secretary of State , during a very difficult period in our politic , we put those quality to the test many time , and in the numerous meeting that I attend with Tony and representative of other political party in Northern Ireland , there be not much tolerance and restraint on display , but he be there to calm we all down . I think it important for I also to say that Tony ' s interest in Ireland do not start when he become shadow Secretary of State ; it be a decade - long pursuit of truth , justice and peace for the people of our island . his friend in Ireland will never forget he , as he never forget we . I be delighted to host he in Derry a few month ago for a few pint in a local hostelry , where we have great craic and tell great story , and to see he again in the Strangers bar for a pint just before Christmas — sometimes we actually meet without have pint . one thing stand out to I on the many occasion on which I see he after he get sick . we all know that he be not well , but he wear it so lightly . as other have say , he do not talk about himself or his own illness ; he talk about we and ask we question about how thing be go . I think of some of the contribution that he be make in this place at the end of his career . he be talk about arm export to Israel , he be talk about Rwanda , and he be talk about and advocate on behalf of private tenant who be not be treat properly . he be an advocate for the voiceless until the very end . I want to extend our sympathy and love to Tony ' s family and friend , and to all who love he . on behalf of the people I represent on our island , I say , " Ar dheis D é go raibh a anam " . may he rest in peace . I believe that Mike Kane have an announcement to make . I have a thousand story to tell about Tony , have meet he 40 year ago as member of the Fianna Ph á draig pipe band in Stretford during an Armistice Day event , but I will save they for the Stranger ' s bar later . my sympathy first go to Judith , who continue her work as councillor for the Longford ward in Trafford . Tony be an active member of the Catholic community here in Westminster . Father Alexander have ask I to convey to the House that the catholic mass at 6 pm tomorrow in the Chapel of St Mary Undercroft will be for the repose of the soul of Tony , and that all will be welcome . I meet Tony when we become corridor neighbour after his 2017 election , but I know of his reputation and be somewhat in awe of it . when I work with he , my irish - Mancunian Aunt Margaret message I to say , " you ' re work with our Tony ! " she be so proud and tell everyone in Middleton about my great rise . although 2018 be a difficult time in the Labour party , in our country and in Northern Ireland , Tony assume the role of shadow Secretary of State with his usual calm , professionalism and guide political principle . know my interest in Northern Ireland , he bring I into the team . it be still a mystery to I that when I become a shadow Northern Ireland Minister there be no announcement , there be certainly no tweet , and I be not even sure that the Office of the Leader of the House know that the number of people in that team have rise from two to three . along with the aforementioned Steve Pound , I become part of a trio . what a time that be — again , perhaps there will be story later . Tony be not go to allow a bit of procedure , or indeed convention , get in the way of pragmatism and what he think be need at the time . he want to have a woman in his team — he be a great supporter of woman ' s equality . it be such a great pleasure to work with he at that time . wherever we go , whoever we meet and whatever difficult discussion we have — and there be many — with all political party it be exactly the same . we meet the political party , we meet those victim of the terrible violence in Northern Ireland , for which people be still struggle to get justice , we meet campaigner for a new and different Northern Ireland , we meet the Irish Government , and we meet Tory Ministers , with whom we have difficult but always respectful conversation . Tony be exactly the same at all those meeting : calm , informed , respectful and , ultimately , very wise . sadly , there be not always enough people in this place who be interested in the affair of Northern Ireland , so we often have a lot of down time between debate . we be often here quite late when everyone else have go on to do other thing . we also spend a lot of time travel , and I learn so much . I have not meet most of Tony ' s family , but I feel that I know about they , and we share the great love that we both feel for our family . I remember wax lyrical — as I be sometimes will not to do , but will not do now — when ask his advice about how good to be a good MP , and how good to use Parliament . should mps stay on the Back Benches , should they take a position on the Front Bench , should they join Select Committees , should they try to introduce private member ' Bills ? he stop , raise his hand , take a sip of his pint and ask I , " can you do join - up writing ? " [ Laughter . ] and I can , Mr Speaker . when I say that I could , Tony say , " there be always a job to be do in this place by people who can do join - up writing . " what he mean be that mps should have a clear focus on their constituent — there be a job to be do there , which he do really well — but after that they should do what they feel be right for they , where they think they can make the most difference . but he also mean , " enjoy the great privilege that you have . " I will miss Tony for that sense of fun , for that mischievousness , and for his great wisdom and friendship , particularly over the last couple of year when he be ill . we all seem to have speak to he and receive text in the last two month , so that phone bill must be very high . Tony have no intention of die when he speak to we in those last conversation , but I know from the work that he do with I on assist dying and the right of people to choose their moment of leave that that choice to be at home with the love of his family would have be a very important one . our main thought be with his family and close friend . I thank everyone for share they , and may he rest in peace . let I explain to our friend opposite that the reason so many of we love and respect Tony be that , for we , he be one of the fine socialist and trade unionist that we have ever meet . if he be here , however , I think he would be ask why we be not celebrate one of his great attribute . Tony be possibly the good political plotter any of we have ever come across . he be always plot for a cause , and it be usually the right cause . I remember the plot that make he the chair of the trade union group in Parliament . at that time the Labour leadership be perhaps not as amicable as they be now . it be say that they always look on the trade unionist as the uninvited uncle at the wedding who turn up every now and again . what Tony become be the bridge between the trade union movement and the then labour leadership , and that hold together our relationship with the movement overall . then there be the plot to make he chair of the PLP , to oust Ann Clwyd , as member may recall . it be a Brownite plot — and a prominent Brownite , my right hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East ( Mr Brown ) , be sit beside I — but it be also a good cause . Tony see that the leader dominate the PLP , and that there need to be a political balance that reflect all the different view . a large number of people would not have vote against the Iraq war if it have not be for Tony . he lead by example on every occasion , on a very principled basis . if he be here today talk about Palestine , he would be lead for the palestinian people . I be in the Shadow Cabinet with Tony . some colleague may remember that there be not an awful lot of fight for job in the Shadow Cabinet ; fend off the monthly coup take a bit of our time . the reason he come in be his loyalty to the cause and his loyalty to the party . whoever be leader , he be loyal and he do his job . we appoint he shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , because I do not know anyone else who could get that lot talk to one another in the same room in that way . that be why we love and respect he — because he be part of we , he be part of our movement : a trade unionist , a socialist , a parliamentarian of the high degree . he know how this place work and he be able to use that , just as he do for the party , for the good of cause and the good of objective . that be why we will greatly miss he , exactly as the leader of the party have say . the foundation that we lay in the future will be base upon the principle that he advocate and convince so many people of . I be a bit worried today because I think I be go to be overwhelm with emotion and also because I think I might find out that I be not Tony ' s favourite MP . it be the mark of a good leader and a good man that he make people feel like they be his favourite and that he be tell they something special . I can not tell you how long I have know Tony because I have be in the trade union movement for so many year and our path cross all the time ; we be campaign all the time on so many different issue . but I remember in 2005 when I come into Parliament , I be quite obviously distressed about something — I do not know what — and I remember Tony put his hand on my shoulder quite gently and say , " Dawn , you ' re often go to feel lost in this place , but don ' t worry . " he say that if I ever have any question I could always ask he , no matter how silly those question be , and I have pass that on to new mp that come in . I always say , " if you have a silly question , ask I . it ' s okay " , because I remember how Tony make I feel when he say that . Tony also tell I not to believe people who say they know how this place work , because inevitably they do not . that I carry with I too . the last conversation I have with Tony be at the bottom of the stair by the Opposition office and I remember he ask I how I be and how my health be . and I think , " oh my goodness , he be go through what he be go through . " I remember send he a message that I and the hon . member for Neath ( Christina Rees ) — who can not be here today but would really want to be — be feel quite lost and we do not know what to do — [ interruption . ] I do not know how to portray to the family — sorry ; how to portray to the family how much he mean to we . it have be a real comfort to I to listen to so many tribute for such a wonderful man that I have the high respect for . I have the pleasure of know Tony for many year and it be a joy to work together in Parliament after decade of friendship . he be such a kind , caring , compassionate man . Tony could not help himself from help other . every day be a day of action to help other to make life and thing well . only last month , I be at the all - party parliamentary group on Belarus — he correct I on how I pronounce that — which be chair by Tony , and he be fight as passionately as ever for a free and democratic Belarus . that be just last month . Tony be kind and softly speak yet so strong in his belief , and action always follow they up . he be a dear friend to so many people and so well respected , and I be privileged to be one of those people . I always enjoy chat over a drink of tea in the Tea Room , and we would have many a laugh . I will miss Tony , my real friend . God bless Tony and God bless his family — may you take the same comfort that I have here today listen to so many well - deserve tribute . I want to speak today to pass on my condolence to Tony ' s family , but also to mark somebody who be one of the most standout individual I have come across in the 27 year that I have be in this House . I first get to know he soon after I be elect in 1997 ; we be member of the same trade union group . he be somebody who you look forward to meet socially around the place because he be always good company , and he be somebody who be always wise and worth listen to , whether it be here in the Chamber or in discussion elsewhere . perhaps I get to know Tony well when I join the parliamentary Labour party committee when he be chair of the PLP . you will remember , Mr Speaker , as will those of we who be here at the time , what we go through with the expense issue , where mps come under a considerable amount of criticism . Tony ' s leadership really come to the fore there . his calmness and his ability to influence what be go on be really exemplary . I use to sit in the committee when the civil servant — I will not name he — who have be invite to set up the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority come in to talk down to we , I have to say . Tony be very calm , as always , and I be not . I always think that in his negotiation , Tony go away and say , " if you don ' t negotiate with I , I ' m go to set he on you . " his personal skill really get we through that time ; I remember that time very well . I be also a member of the Justice for Colombia group , and I know that they will want to pass on their sympathy to Tony ' s family . he have enormous influence on the work of Justice for Colombia and in support the peace process in that country , which have eventually make enormous change there . Tony be a drive force , both in the trade union movement and in this place , in support Justice for Colombia . he be the embodiment of the word " comradeship " — whether it be through his kindness and decency , his compassion , his courageousness , it all shine through . he be among the good of we , and we will miss he dearly . it have be so good to hear all these warm tribute to Tony . he be a man of such warmth , integrity and decency and that have resonate through everything that everyone have be say . I get to know Tony when we both serve in the shadow Cabinet and he be shadow the Northern Ireland Secretary . two thing really strike I . one be the time that he would take to listen to people , to consider the problem they be grapple with and to give wise word of guidance . the other be the degree to which he care about people so passionately . he work tirelessly for his constituent , but also very genuinely for the people of Northern Ireland . I think that that have ring true this afternoon . I would just like to express my condolence to all of his family . I think what make politic interesting for the people out there be great character , and there be no doubt at all in my mind that the great Tony Lloyd be a great character . anytime you meet Tony and you leave his company , you walk away with a smile on your face because there be always some witticism that he have leave you with to think about . he always make you feel well about yourself and politic . I remember Tony talk to I about his great love not just for Greater Manchester but for the city of Glasgow and of course his other beloved football team , celtic football club , which he insist be Glasgow ' s no . 1 football team . as a Partick Thistle supporter , I can only say that he be nearly correct in his summation . he be very proud of his irish root , as I and many other across this House be . his work with the parliamentary Friends of Colombia have also be mention , and for so many of we he be a leader in raise that particular issue . I think we always have to learn from each other , and one of my first conversation with Tony be about the vital importance of a constituency office keep tab on the full moon date across the year . we all know why , don ' t we ? we can never say it here in public , but we know why . full moon date be a vital part of a constituency office ' s work . I will always remember this great man and this great friend . I hope the WhatsApp message between I and he be between we and no one else . I say to his family and to our labour colleague : our comradeship and our love be with you at this time as we remember the great Tony Lloyd . it be a pleasure to contribute to this debate . I be ever mindful of those who have speak so , on behalf of my Democratic Unionist party colleague , I express our sincere and deepest condolence to Tony ' s wife , Judith , and his four beloved child and adore grandchild , some of whom be in the House today . as be well document and rightly laud by member , Tony ' s rich service in this House begin in 1983 , some 41 year ago — two year before the start of my service as a councillor in 1985 . I will briefly highlight the friendship that Tony give to I and everyone in this House . he make friend very quickly , and it be particularly meaningful when we serve together on the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) speak about how , across the political party , he bring we all together to focus on the thing on which we could agree , rather than on the difference we sometimes have with each other . Tony and I be often together in Westminster Hall , where he often speak in debate on human right and freedom of religion and belief . we be on the same side of the Chamber , obviously , but we be also on the same page in speak up for those thing . he be a voice for the voiceless , and boy do he speak up well . he be one of those people . although Tony and I may not have share the same political opinion on the way forward in Northern Ireland , we share respect and love for the country . Tony be knowledgeable on the intricacy of Northern Ireland and , although we do not always agree , his opinion be fair , reasoned and respectful . we enjoy many a conversation in the Chamber , with I sit here and Tony sit just behind I . he often lean over , and he be always softly speak and incredibly courteous . he be always personable and often have a story . he never give advice unasked , but he help everyone who ask — that be the sort of advice he often give to I . I enjoy that . Tony be a man of personal faith . Mr Speaker , I know that you and the family be ever aware of the importance of faith . the hon . member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) speak about that , too . I be remind of 2 Timothy 4 : 7 - 8 , which be a great scriptural text . he have fight the good fight , he have finish the race , he have keep the faith . henceforth there be lay up for he a crown of righteousness , which the Lord , the righteous judge , will award he on that day , and not only he but also to all who have love his appearing . that be the Tony we know . he be well thought of and respect in this place , and his wisdom and wit will be sorely miss . that conclude the tribute . I think the House be always at its good on such occasion , and today be exceptional . I be sure Tony ' s family will be very proud of today ' s tribute and comment . he will be greatly miss but never forget . business of the House I add my thank to all member who have pay tribute to the wonderful Sir Tony , not just today but over the past week , include the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) . I sincerely hope that the word that have be hear today , and over the past week , will give some comfort to Tony ' s family and friend at this difficult time . with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a short statement alter the business of the House for Wednesday . Wednesday 24 January — consideration of a business of the House motion , follow by all stage of a short Bill relate to executive formation in Northern Ireland , follow by a general debate on the situation in the Red sea . I will announce further business on Thursday , in the usual way . I call the shadow Leader of the House . it be a privilege to be in the Chamber for those fantastic and wonderful tribute to our dear friend , Tony Lloyd . I give my tribute last week , and I will feel ever in his shadow as his successor as the Member for Manchester Central . labour share the Government ' s desire to see an Executive restore as soon as possible , and if extend the deadline for election to be call be the good way to achieve that , which it seem to be , we will , of course , fully support that . however , can the Leader of the House provide any update on the talk with the Northern Ireland political party to achieve restoration of the Executive ? it have be some time since we have an update . can the Leader of the House say for how long the period for Executive formation will be extend ? indeed , can she say when the Bill will be publish ? give the House just one day ' s notice to pass an entire Bill in a day be far from ideal , especially when its detail be still unknown . can she outline the Government ' s plan for timetable the Bill in the Lords ? finally , I welcome tomorrow ' s debate on the situation in the Red sea , albeit that the debate have be shorten . can the Leader of the House tell we when the wide debate on other matter relate to defence and security will now take place ? I thank the hon . Lady and the Opposition for their support in this matter . the Bill , which she will understand be a very short Bill , will be table today and publish tomorrow . I recognise that be a short amount of time for the House , but it be a very short Bill , and I think the House will be able to cope with that situation . she will understand that the timetable for this matter be very important . I will make sure that the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland have hear what the hon . Lady say about an update , and she will know that the Government remain firmly of the belief that a sit Northern Ireland Executive would be well place to act quickly and effectively to resolve issue for the people they serve , and that be our aim . I be sure the debate will allow some of those issue to be air , although it be a very narrow Bill . timetable in the Lords be a matter for their lordship . I will make further announcement on future business in the usual way . I call the SNP spokesperson . I too pay tribute to Tony Lloyd . it be really move to listen to the contribution of his friend and colleague , which reflect the warm and decent person he be . I regret that we be have to deal with executive formation in this place yet again , because it be always good for the democratically elect member of the Northern Ireland Assembly to be in their place and govern in the good interest of the people of Northern Ireland . the long this drag on , the more the people of Northern Ireland suffer , which be frankly unforgiveable . I regret , too , that we be see parliamentary business create on the hoof by this government , particularly in such a serious and sensitive area , but here we be again . many of we warn of exactly this problem arise . we be here because of a mess of the UK Government ' s make , but they refuse to acknowledge that the easy way of resolve it would be close alignment with the EU , which would make much of this go away . instead , the Brexit bourach rumble on — a bourach this Government cause and be unwilling to face up to and sort out . my hon . friend the Member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) will have much more to say on this tomorrow . I have one question . will this Government ever acknowledge their role in create this mess and reconsider their hard - line rejection of the sensible option of return to the single market ? the hon . Lady tempt I to go into detail on the single market , the customs union and the price we would have to pay for that , but you will be pleased to hear , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I will not . the hon . Lady will know that we have twice extend the period for executive formation through primary legislation and , despite the good effort , restoration be not possible before the formation period expire on 18 January . she will know that bring forward this legislation have be tie to talk and negotiation , which be why we have the current timetable . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would appreciate your advice on what can be do in relation to the poor performance of the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs in respond to e - petition . it have be agree that the Government will provide a response to e - petition that receive at least 10 , 000 signature within no more than 21 day , but an e - petition call on the Government to take the Clean Air ( Human Rights ) bill through this House have be wait for a response for more than 100 day and be now over 13 week late . I write to the Environment Secretary on 28 November to highlight the delay in respond , and to ask for a response to this petition and an explanation for the delay , but I have not receive a reply to that letter . this be not the first such letter I have have to write to the Environment Secretary about late response to e - petition . in the last year , the Petitions Committee have have to write to the Environment Secretary on nine occasion regard significantly overdue Government response . it be critical that petitioner , who be member of the public , get response to their petition in the agree timeframe , and a failure to do so show a lack of respect for the petitioning process . Madam Deputy Speaker , can you advise on how I can ensure that the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs respond to e - petition in a timely fashion ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her point of order and for give I notice of it . the Committee she chair be entitle to receive a timely response to petition and , just as importantly , so be member of the public who have sign they . I be sure that she be entirely correct to raise this matter and that member will be concern about it . she be lucky that the Leader of the House happen to be here . I sense that she might want to say something in response , because I have no power to compel the Secretary of State to reply to the hon . Lady ' s correspondence . as I say , I be sure that we may see a response from the Leader of the House , so perhaps it would be most effective for I to allow she to make a brief comment . I be very happy to do so , Madam Deputy Speaker . as the hon . Lady know , we do a lot to ensure that department be adhere to their obligation to this place . that take the form of training , and of call in Ministers and permanent secretary in certain case , and of course member of this House can raise any such issue at business question . I hope that member know that I always respond to those question and always take their request and comment seriously . I will ensure that the hon . Lady ' s point be follow up with the Department and that her office receive an explanation and , I hope , a swift answer . I thank the Leader of the House for that . I be sure it be extremely helpful , but no doubt the hon . Lady will come back if problem persist , as I be sure that the Speaker would be concern to hear about these delay . Bill present Children not in School ( National Register and Support ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Bridget Phillipson , support by Catherine McKinnell , present a Bill to provide for a national register of child who be not pupil at any school ; to require local authority to provide datum about such child in their area for the purpose of maintain that register ; to make provision about the support that local authority provide to such child ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Wednesday 7 February , and to be print ( Bill 149 ) . Offensive Weapons Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the weapon to which section 141 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 apply ; and for connected purpose . John Ogunjobi , Glendon Spence , Jude Gayle , Donnell Rhule , Dennis Anderson , Beatrice Cenusa and Ronaldo Scott — those be the name of those who have lose their life to knife crime in my constituency since I be elect in 2015 , along with two other victim I be unable to name because their case be before the court . each one be love by their family and friend . each one have hope and dream for the future . each one leave a family and a community utterly devastate by their loss . and for each of these life that have be lose , there be many more people who have be injure with a knife , some suffer life - change injury , all suffer significant psychological trauma . this issue be not unique to my constituency or to London , as this be happen across the whole country — in Yorkshire , Staffordshire , Kent and many other place , young life be be lose , with family and community devastate . I be grateful to all the colleague who have express their support for this Bill ; they come from many area of the country and from different party . there be many more than there be space for signatory to the Bill . Knife crime have a devastating impact on local community , as well as family . it take away any sense of safety and security , make young people afraid and traumatise and act as a barrier to self - belief , aspiration and engagement in education and learning . in August last year , I attend an end - of - summer celebration at a local youth centre . I watch young people perform song , rap and poem they have write and produce themselves . there be nothing but love and support in the room as we celebrate everything they have achieve together . a few day later , I meet some of those same young people again nearby at a police line , watch as the body of a young man they know be be remove from underneath a forensic tent , after he have be fatally stab . we all feel utterly bleak ; it seem that all of the good work of the whole summer have be completely undo in that moment . I pay tribute to the many people in my constituency who work so hard to reduce serious violence , include the youth leader who be so committed to support young people , keep they from harm and help they to follow their aspiration . I want to mention in particular Ecosystem Coldharbour in the Brixton part of my constituency , which be fund by the Mayor of London ' s violence reduction unit ; Code 7 ; the Rathbone Society ; and KETRA — the Kingswood Estate tenant and resident association . I pay tribute also to Circle of Life Ignite , a group of mother who have each lose a child to knife crime who be work to install bleed - stop kit in public place , so that the equipment need to stem the bleeding from a knife wound can be access by member of the public and a serious incident can be prevent from become a tragedy . there be some excellent work happen in our community to tackle serious violence , but it be be frustrate and undermine by the increasingly horrific nature of the weapon that perpetrator of knife crime be able to access — so - call zombie knife or Rambo knife , machete and ninja sword . I speak last week with Malcolm Tunnicliff , the clinical director of major trauma at King ' s College Hospital in my constituency , to ask he about the injury his team see from these weapon . he tell I : " we call it knife crime , but the victim we see have essentially be attack with weapon of war . " he tell I that the injury be devastating ; with a normal knife , a victim might end up with a 2 to 3 inch scar , but zombie knife and machete be very heavy weapon , and they inflict deep slash , which be incredibly disfiguring . because they be so heavy , they be capable of cut through tendon and bone , include the skull , so victim who survive frequently have brain injury . the edge of these knife be often serrate , so they inflict terrible damage on vital organ . a bleed - stop kit be unfortunately woefully inadequate against such horrific weapon . often the victim simply do not stand a chance , such be the severity of their injury . in the case of the two most recent murder in my constituency , both victim die quickly at the scene . Zombie and Rambo knife , machete and ninja sword be readily available online . a quick Google search reveal many different weapon that can be purchase on Amazon , Temu and other online marketplace for under £ 30 . in a recent survey , which ? find that it be able to purchase item on Temu that be age - restrict or illegal under current UK law without any age verification . Google have be find to be profit from the advertising of lethal weapon , include 17 - inch zombie knife , " military tactical " blade and " zombie killer sword apocalypse machete " , despite claim to ban they . when such weapon be sell illegally , the enforcement be almost non - existent . Knife crime be rise in England and Wales , have go up by 4 . 7 % in 2022 - 23 on the 2021 - 22 figure . there be much that can be do in community to prevent serious violence : high - quality youth work , effective policing focus on build the trust of local community , good mental health support , and high - quality employment and training opportunity all have a role to play . however , even where this good work be take place , it be be undermine by the availability of lethal weapon . there be straightforward action that we in this place can take to help keep our young people safe . we can introduce an effective ban , back up by robust enforcement , of the weapon that be be use to inflict the great harm . since 2016 , the Government have promise repeatedly to introduce such a ban , but they have fail to act . in response to my recent write question on the topic , the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire respond that the Government would legislate " when parliamentary time allow " , yet the House of Commons Library have calculate that there be 21 day last year when the House rise early due to insufficient business , seven of which fall after the Government make its most recent promise to implement a ban . there have be parliamentary time , but the Government have simply not prioritise the issue enough to be bother to act . the community I represent , and community across the country , can not wait any long . young people be die on our street because , in the word of the clinical director of emergency medicine at my local hospital , " weapon of war " be readily available to buy on the internet and have deliver to the doorstep . the ban the Government propose be insufficient . it be too narrow and it would leave the perpetrator of violence able to shift to a different weapon of choice , such as a sword . my ban would extend to all zombie and Rambo knife , machete and ninja sword , and it would cover the sale , marketing and possession of those weapon . there be very few legitimate reason to have a hunting knife or a sword in London , or indeed in any area of the country . a licensing scheme with rigorous age verification could be introduce for any such legitimate purpose . the issue be urgent . no family should have to endure the pain of lose a young person with their whole life ahead of they . I do not want to have to stand at a police line again , try to find the word to say to parent who have have their whole world rip out from underneath they , watch as a community be retraumatise once again . the issue be urgent — it be literally a matter of life or death — but it have not be treat as such by this Government . I urge the Government to support my Bill , so that effective legislation can be introduce to remove these lethal weapon from our street . if this government will not act , the House can be assure that a Labour Government will . question put and agree to . order , that Helen Hayes , Wendy Morton , Florence Eshalomi , Marsha De Cordova , Bell Ribeiro - Addy , Alex Norris ¸ Dawn Butler , Abena Oppong - Asare , Catherine West , Mr Virendra Sharma , Fleur Anderson and Seema Malhotra present the Bill . Helen Hayes accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February , and to be print ( Bill 148 ) . opposition Day - [ 3rd Allotted Day ] opposition Day child not in school : National Register and Support it be probably a good idea if I share some of my thinking about this afternoon . obviously , we have two debate and normally there would have be more time for they . I imagine the opening speech will last about 15 minute each , but I will have to put a time limit in place if we be to have time for the speech in the next debate . the time limit on speech by Back - Bench Members will probably be about five minute . I hope that be helpful , but if anybody feel that they can not squeeze enough in during that time , please let I know . I beg to move , that this House condemn the Secretary of State for Education for her failure to tackle the crisis of persistent school absence ; call on the Government to immediately introduce legislation to amend the Education Act 1996 in order to establish a mandatory duty on local authority in England to maintain a register of eligible child not in school , as set out in Part 3 of the Schools Bill [ Lords ] publish in the 2022 - 23 parliamentary session ; and therefore make provision as set out in this order : ( 1 ) on Wednesday 7 February 2024 : ( a ) Standing Order no . 14 ( 1 ) ( which provide that government business shall have precedence at every sit save as provide in that order ) shall not apply ; ( b ) any proceeding govern by this order may be proceed with until any hour , though oppose , and shall not be interrupt ; ( c ) the Speaker may not propose the question on the previous question , and may not put any question under Standing Order no . 36 ( closure of debate ) or Standing Order no . 163 ( motion to sit in private ) ; ( d ) at 3 . 00pm , the Speaker shall interrupt any business prior to the business govern by this order and , notwithstanding the practice of this House as regard to proceed on a Bill without notice , call the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South or another Member on her behalf to move the order of the day that the child not in School ( National Register and Support ) Bill be now read a second time ; ( e ) in respect of that Bill , notice of amendment , new Clauses and new schedule to be move in Committee may be accept by the Clerks at the table before the Bill have be read a second time . ( f ) any proceeding interrupt or supersede by this order may be resume or ( as the case may be ) enter upon and proceed with after the moment of interruption . ( 2 ) the provision of paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 18 ) of this order shall apply to and in connection with the proceeding on the child not in School ( National Register and Support ) Bill in the present Session of Parliament . timetable for the Bill on Wednesday 7 February 2024 ( 3 ) ( a ) proceeding on Second Reading and in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding up to and include Third reading shall be take at the sitting on Wednesday 7 February 2024 in accordance with this order . ( b ) proceeding on Second reading shall be bring to a conclusion ( so far as not previously conclude ) at 5 . 00pm . ( c ) proceeding on any money resolution which may be move by a Minister of the Crown in relation to the Bill shall be take without debate immediately after Second Reading . ( d ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding up to and include Third reading shall be bring to a conclusion ( so far as not previously conclude ) at 7 . 00pm . timing of proceeding and question to be put on Wednesday 7 February 2024 ( 4 ) when the Bill have be read a second time : ( a ) it shall , notwithstanding Standing Order No . 63 ( Committal of bill not subject to a programme order ) , stand committed to a Committee of the whole House without any question be put ; ( b ) the Speaker shall leave the Chair whether or not notice of an instruction have be give . ( 5 ) ( a ) on the conclusion of proceeding in Committee of the whole House , the Chairman shall report the Bill to the House without put any question . ( b ) if the Bill be report with amendment , the House shall proceed to consider the Bill as amend without any question be put . ( 6 ) for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 3 ) , the Chairman or Speaker shall forthwith put the following Questions in the same order as they would fall to be put if this order do not apply — ( a ) any question already propose from the Chair ; ( b ) any question necessary to bring to a decision a question so propose ; ( c ) the question on any amendment , new clause or new schedule select by the Chairman or Speaker for separate decision ; ( d ) the question on any amendment move or Motion make by a designate member ; ( e ) any other question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude ; and shall not put any other Questions , other than the question on any motion describe in paragraph ( 15 ) of this order . ( 7 ) on a Motion make for a new clause or a new schedule , the Chairman or Speaker shall put only the question that the clause or schedule be add to the Bill . consideration of Lords Amendments and Messages on a subsequent day ( 8 ) if any message on the Bill ( other than a message that the House of Lords agree with the Bill without amendment or agree with any message from this House ) be expect from the House of Lords on any future sitting day , the House shall not adjourn until that message have be receive and any proceeding under paragraph ( 9 ) have be conclude . ( 9 ) on any day on which such a message be receive , if a designate Member indicate to the Speaker an intention to proceed to consider that message — ( a ) notwithstanding Standing Order no . 14 ( 1 ) ( which provide that government business shall have precedence at every sit save as provide in that order ) , any Lords Amendments to the Bill or any further message from the Lords on the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly ; ( b ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments or on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under subparagraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume ; ( c ) the Speaker may not propose the question on the previous question , and may not put any question under Standing Order no . 36 ( closure of debate ) or Standing Order no . 163 ( motion to sit in private ) in the course of those proceeding . ( 10 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 7 ) of Standing Order no . 83F ( programme order : conclusion of proceeding on consideration of Lords amendment ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments to a conclusion as if : ( a ) any reference to a Minister of the Crown be a reference to a designated member ; ( b ) after paragraph ( 4 ) ( a ) there be insert — " ( aa ) the question on any amendment or motion select by the Speaker for separate decision ; " . ( 11 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) of Standing Order No . 83 g ( Programme order : conclusion of proceeding on further message from the Lords ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding on consideration of a Lords Message to a conclusion as if any reference to a Minister of the Crown be a reference to a designated member . Reasons Committee ( 12 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) of Standing Order No . 83H ( programme order : reason committee ) apply in relation to any committee to be appoint to draw up reason after proceeding have be bring to a conclusion in accordance with this order as if any reference to a Minister of the Crown be a reference to a designated member . miscellaneous ( 13 ) Standing Order no . 82 ( Business Committee ) shall not apply in relation to any proceeding on the Bill to which this order apply . ( 14 ) ( a ) no Motion shall be make , except by a designated member , to alter the order in which any proceeding on the Bill be take , to recommit the Bill or to vary or supplement the provision of this order . ( b ) no notice shall be require of such a Motion . ( c ) such a motion may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( d ) the question on such a motion shall be put forthwith ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( c ) shall thereupon be resume . ( e ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on such a Motion . ( 15 ) ( a ) no dilatory motion shall be make in relation to proceeding on the Bill to which this order apply except by a designate member . ( b ) the Question on any such Motion shall be put forthwith . ( 16 ) proceeding to which this order apply shall not be interrupt under any Standing Order relate to the sitting of the House . ( 17 ) no private business may be consider at any sitting to which the provision of this order apply . ( 18 ) ( a ) the start of any debate under Standing Order No . 24 ( emergency debate ) to be hold on a day on which proceeding to which this order apply be to take place shall be postpone until the conclusion of any proceeding to which this order apply . ( b ) Standing Order 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply in respect of any such debate . ( 19 ) in this order , " a designate Member " mean — ( a ) the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South ; and ( b ) any other Member act on behalf of the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . today , we seek the permission of the House to make time in the week ahead to pass legislation to protect the interest of child who be not in school ; to use a day of parliamentary time to put their concern first and they at the heart of our work ; and to make real for one day the promise that only a Labour Government can bring — the promise of a Britain where child come first — because it be a national scandal that every day and every week so many child be not in school . absence from school be not simply a problem in itself ; it be a symptom of deep problem and a cause of further problem . while the package of measure that should tackle those problem — and under a Labour Government will tackle those problem — must be detailed and comprehensive , a key part of it be know where child who be not in school be instead . before I go far , I should emphasise that some parent choose lawfully and properly to educate their child at home . many of they do so very well , very effectively and to a very high standard . those child be not the focus of our concern today . their parent do not have anything to fear from a register of child not in school — the register of the sort that the Leader of the Opposition and I seek the permission of this House to consider in a Bill next month . until very recently , support for that register of child not in school be a cross - party endeavour . politician across this House agree with it . it be an element of the Schools Bill , which the Government introduce in the other place in the summer of 2022 . the register also receive support from professional in child service . however , the Schools Bill disappear from Parliament , but I pay particular tribute to the hon . member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) who have press this cause so hard among member of her own party and bring her own Bill to this place . the hon . Lady ' s Bill have wide support outside the House too . many supportive comment be offer to the hon . Lady on the legislation that she propose , but the word of Julie McCulloch , the director of policy for the Association of School and College Leaders , bear repetition . she say that " the Government really should be make the parliamentary time available to ensure that this simple and necessary measure pass into law . frankly , the public will find it astonishing that there be no such register already . " it be for exactly that reason that we today seek parliamentary time to put it into law as soon as possible . of course , the hon . Lady and voice outside this House be not alone in recognise the crucial importance of the register . there be many distinguished supporter of that Bill , include on the Government Benches . I have inform all of the follow hon . member that I intend to reference they in this debate as a courtesy to they . they include the hon . member for Morley and Outwood ( Dame Andrea Jenkyns ) , the hon . and learn Member for Eddisbury ( Edward Timpson ) and the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) , who all go on to serve as Education Ministers . there be also the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , who be not merely a former Education Minister , but be today Chair of the Education Committee , and the right hon . member for South Staffordshire ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , who be one of the Secretary of State ' s ample collection of predecessor . support for legislation on child not in school be , of course , not limit to supporter of that Bill , none of whom be a Minister at the time . the hon . member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) , then a Minister in the Department for Education , be clear almost two year ago that he and his colleague " intend to legislate to ensure we have a ' child not in school ' register . " in respect of parent home educate their child , he rightly observe : " that be something no parent who be do the right thing should be concern about " . — [ Official Report , 14 March 2022 ; Vol . 710 , c . 605 . ] the right hon . member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) be admirably honest when still a Minister last summer . he say : " we think a register of child not in school be important . " we agree with he . the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , who be now back as a Minister , speak , when launch a consultation , of the Government need a register of child not in school " to prevent vulnerable young people from vanish under the radar . " I could not put it well myself . do he still hold to those word ? if so , when will the Government get on with it ? the Children ' s Commissioner for England , Dame Rachel de Souza , have repeatedly call for a national register . of course , we know from her word in this place last month , that the current Secretary of State herself take the view that " it be my priority and I hope to legislate on it in the very short term . " — [ Official Report , 11 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 607 . ] sadly , she be not here today to lend her support to the motion . it be also sadly the case that she have be unable to convince her own Prime Minister , because he — as he never hesitate to make clear — be never very interested in the welfare of other people ' s child . this failure by the Government to address the most serious and urgent barrier to learn in our school — that child be not there — exemplify a broad fail and tell a wide story . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way and congratulate she on expose this scandal that be affect child across our country . in my borough , the problem have go up significantly since 2016 - 17 . do she agree that , give what happen during the pandemic and the failure of the Government to meet the requirement of additional funding , with a shortfall of £ 10 billion , young people be suffer ? it be vital that there be mental health support along with the register to ensure that young people be support in go back to school , because mental ill health be a significant barrier to their return to school . I agree with my hon . friend . she make an important point about the wide pressure that child and young people be face . I will come on to precisely that point a bit later , but it be why I be so delighted that Sir Kevan Collins , the former Government catch - up commissioner , back Labour ' s long - term plan to ensure that we do address those challenge come out of the pandemic . I thank my hon . friend for give way and congratulate she on raise this important issue . analysis by Labour estimate that more than 1 , 300 pupil in Wirral will miss half their lesson by 2026 . that be an absolutely staggering figure . the National Education Union have point out that the scale of the impact of poverty on persistent absence should not be underestimate . I be sure my hon . friend would agree that this Government have fail massively on child poverty and that they should listen to Labour , cut the cost of school uniform and provide free breakfast club in every primary school . I be grateful to my hon . friend for her support . those be precisely the kind of measure that a Labour Government would take right now to back family , cut child poverty and ensure that child be set up to succeed . one reason why child might drop out of the school system and , as my hon . Friend say , go under the radar be because they have have a parent sentence to imprisonment . the charity child Heard and Seen tell we that we know exactly how many labrador be in this country but have no idea how many child be affect by parental imprisonment . we know it be a six - figure sum . do my hon . friend agree that we could use a register to try to get some datum so that those child get the help they need , whether that be mental or physical support ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for all her campaign work on the important issue of support family and child where imprisonment be a factor in their life , such as when a parent be spend time in prison or be in the criminal justice system . she raise the important issue — one that I will come to in the debate — of the need to get a well sense of all the information around a child so that we can well support all child and family . will the hon . member give way ? I will give way one final time , then I must make some progress . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for give way . it be important that she have bring this critical issue to the House . many group of young child , as we have hear , be not in school for many reason . one group that be particularly close to my heart be young carer . I be sure that she will know from all the evidence and analysis that , on average , young carer miss 27 day of school a year . that show the absolutely urgent need to have a national carer strategy with a focus on young carer . do the hon . Lady agree and will she commit her party to push that forward in government ? I agree that we absolutely must do more to support young carer , and I give the undertaking that a Labour Government would ensure that young carer ' voice , need and right and the support that should be make available to they be take seriously . member on both side of the House will be familiar with the view widely hold by those on the conservative Benches that whatever damage they might have do to our country , whether it be laugh in the face of voter wait year after year for NHS treatment , as the Prime Minister do last week , the sewage that fill our river and sea , or the grow crisis their party have create in provision for child with special educational need and disability — separate from all that — at least the education that child receive in our country be something the conservative party have not yet damage beyond repair . the trouble with that belief be that if it be ever true , today it be no long . at the end of last year , the OECD ' s programme for international student assessment 2022 result come out . conservative Members have for many year take a keen interest in the result , which I should say at the outset be base on such a small sample in England that they may not be altogether robust — a point to which I intend to return . close observer will have notice that , over a number of year , the intellectual effort by the Conservative party and its apologist have move from explain to conceal what the result show , and from regard they as a spur to action to take they as an excuse for complacency . we be in a debate on an education matter , so I hope that member across the House and you , Madam Deputy Speaker , will forgive I if I briefly adopt a didactic tone . the PISA score for each country show how well that country be do at educate its child across read , math and science . the PISA ranking be about how well the child in that country be do relative to child in other country . rather obviously , that ranking be affect by not merely how well child do in other country , but how many other country be involve . go up or down the ranking need be no measure of change outcome for child in England , nor of any success for this Government . it be therefore the score , not the ranking , that be the proper focus of government attention . it be not enough that our child be do well than child elsewhere if they be do bad than their old sibling , nor be it a comfort that their reading be well than that of child in another country if it be bad than their brother and sister . education be not a contest between nation , but a share endeavour in every country and across our world to give child the very good start — not some of our child , but all of they . the PISA result show that standard in England ' s school be go backwards in science , in reading and in math . they may not be go backwards as fast as they be elsewhere , but the pace of failure ought not to be a source of pride . some 14 year into a Conservative Government , they focus carefully on the ranking , not the score , and their proud claim be that other child for whom they be not responsible be get an even bad education overseas . it beggar belief — and it be no good blame the pandemic . the pandemic be worldwide , but not every country have go backwards . that slow failure be not a story of poor teaching , of staff not pull their weight or of leader not rise to the challenge they face . it be structural , reflect choice make in Downing Street and the priority of the conservative party : tax break for private school , not standard for state school , and small bill for the super - rich , not well start for child . the one area in which this Government excel be the creation and maintenance of fresh barrier to learn . school may crumble — indeed , despite the Secretary of State ' s well - publicise view of the quality of her own work , the BBC ' s " Panorama " programme last night show powerfully that school do crumble — but nothing seem to stop Ministers put fresh barrier in the way of our child get the education they deserve . there be barrier because the child be neither at school nor in home education ; barrier because child be not ready that day , or that year ; barrier because child have not sleep and can not concentrate , do not succeed when they should and be not learn when they ought ; barrier because child simply be not well ; and barrier that speak to the wide failure , and the piling of expectation on school alone that school alone can never meet . child poverty ' s effect do not end as the classroom door close . the good night ' s sleep , the space to do homework and the quiet undisturbed time at home be all miss from far too many of our child ' s life . as I mention early , the PISA result be base on such a small sample in England that they may not be altogether robust , and that point , indirectly , at the problem we face — the problem with which the next Labour Government will and must contend , because this Government have not , be not and will not . teach child who come to school do not help those who do not , support child we know about will not bring in the one we do not , and the result for child who be there be not meaningful for the child who be not . that be true for PISA , true for gcse and true for a - level . labour ' s belief be simple : excellence be for everyone — not just for those who be in school every day , but for those who be not . high and rise standard must be in every school , in every classroom and for every child , but today , all too clearly , they be not . across the autumn and spring term last year , more than 1 . 5 million child be persistently absent from school . that is , roughly speak , one in five child , or more than double the number who be absent during the same term five year ago . if that rise go on , the number of child persistently absent will rise to more than 2 million in 2025 - 26 , or one in four child miss at least a day each fortnight . that be a disaster , and the Government be do as close as they can to nothing at all . let I quote to the House the word of the headteacher of a state secondary school in the north - east , early this month : " today , an unremarkable Wednesday in the second week back after a two week holiday , 10 % of our student be absent from school . 17 % of Year 11 student , those in the most important examination year of their life , be absent . we ' ve become used to these statistic and sadly , these pattern of absence be now consider normal in school . indeed , our attendance be high than national and local average . " minister will doubtless tell I they be proud of their attendance hub , and the 10 council in which they be set to deliver attendance mentor . the Secretary of State might as well be proud of the water pistol she bring to a wildfire . school leader know it be a disaster . they can see the catastrophe unfold around they . my hon . friend be give a truly excellent speech . she have talk about barrier ; do she agree that one of the big barrier be the fact that child with a neurodivergent condition can not get a diagnosis and , even if they do , they can not get an education , health and care plan or a SEND plan ? that be create huge barrier for child with neurodiversity and autism to access school in a safe environment . my hon . friend be absolutely right about the challenge right across our SEND system — a system that the Secretary of State herself have describe as " lose , lose , lose . " school leader know that this be a disaster , yet early this month the Department update we all on the work of the workload reduction taskforce . it be not the work of teacher , the taskforce clarifie , to investigate a pupil ' s absence . teacher may do it — it be vital work that need do — but it also depend on our amazing support staff . labour ' s plan to tackle the attendance crisis start with our small child . it include a childcare system modernise from the end of parental leave to the end of primary school , high - quality early education , a focus on life chance for child — not just on work choice for parent — and high and rise standard right from the start , with early language intervention to identify and remove barrier to learn , and a determination to reform the SEND system , to put money behind child , not lawyer , and to tackle issue before they hold child back , with a new focus on primary numeracy so that child love math at six , never mind at 16 — excellence for everyone ; not for some of our child but for all of they . there will be free breakfast club in every primary school , because it be about the club , not just the breakfast . every day , every child , every life and every start . there will be 6 , 500 new qualified teacher and a new national voice for our support staff . Ofsted will be reform and improve . we will end the high - stake , low - information culture , with annual check for attendance , safeguard and off - rolling . there will be mental health counsellor in our secondary school and new community hub outside they , join up the information that we have on our child so that every child can be support between school and service — every issue catch , share and address . and we will fulfil the cause for which we ask for time today : a law to register and count the child who be out of school . labour be clear on how we will fund that package and the change that we need : by end the tax break for private school and the mega - rich . we will invest in what we most believe in : our child and their future , excellence for everyone , high and rise standard , and a Britain where background be no barrier to opportunity . the legislation that we will introduce next month , with the House ' s permission if today ' s motion be agree to , will be simple : it will be part 3 of the Government ' s own Schools Bill from 2022 , which provide for a register of child not in school . that be nothing that Conservative Members would not have be prepare to vote for have it be table by their own Ministers , so there can be no reason or excuse for Conservative Members who care about this issue not to support the motion today and the Bill next month . they can choose their party or our child . I commend the motion to the House . as I say , I will need to put on a time limit if the next debate be to have any kind of parity with this one . the limit will be five minute , and I will ensure that it be put up on the board so that member be aware of it . I warmly welcome the Opposition ' s focus on the vital subject of school attendance . it be a big issue that we want everyone to talk about . be in school matter for child — for their education , for their development , for be with their friend and for all else that school bring . as our campaign say " moment matter , attendance count . " everyone will be off school at some point through illness , and sadly some have to be off for extended — sometimes very extended — period , but we absolutely want child to be in school as much as possible and to cut out avoidable absence . I be sure that the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) join I in celebrate the success in cut absence since 2010 and prior to the pandemic . attendance level improve significantly , with absence fall from 6 % in 2010 to 4 . 8 % , represent 15 million more day in school . persistent absence , which be at 16 % in 2010 , come down by almost a third by 2015 , and stay around that level until the pandemic . many education system be deal with increase in absence since the pandemic . that be true of jurisdiction far beyond these shore . it be also true in all of England and Scotland , and in Labour - run Wales — where , by the way , the increase be from a considerably high starting point to a considerably high current point than in England . as such , I welcome the hon . Lady raise this subject . the actual motion , however , suggest that it be perhaps not a subject that the opposition be take properly seriously . the motion start by say that the Government be not tackle persistent absence . let we set aside for a moment that that be plainly nonsense , as I will come to shortly . will the Minister give way ? not at the moment . there then follow the most colossal conflation — a massive non sequitur — about a register of child not in school because they be home educate . obviously , absence and " not in school " sound pretty similar , but if the hon . Lady really think that the issue around absence be all about child be home educate en masse , she have fail to grasp the issue . [ interruption . ] I simply point the hon . Lady who speak for the Opposition to the motion as it be print on the Order Paper , which clearly connect the two statement with nothing more than a semicolon between they . we do think that local authority register be important : they would help improve oversight of those child who be not on school roll , but they would not directly address the large group of child who be on a school roll but have be persistently absent from that school . will the Minister give way ? no ; I ask the hon . Gentleman to forgive I for a moment . before we go on , I would like to say a short word about child in home education . this be often do very well by parent , who make huge sacrifice for their child , often in particularly difficult circumstance , and I pay tribute to those parent . let we be clear : parent also have a right to home school their child , and that be a right I defend . however , we do think it be important for local authority to have a register , because we know that not all child who be not enrol at school be in receipt of a suitable education at home . we also think it be important that parent who be home schooling should be able to source support from their local authority . the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South should know that that be Government policy because , as she say , it appear in the Schools Bill . she may or may not have spot that in the past few day the Department have complete a consultation on elective home education to inform new guidance . I know she have spot that a private Member ' s Bill have be table in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) , which will come before this House on 15 March . both the Secretary of State and I look forward to work with my hon . friend as she seek to progress her Bill through this House . in the meantime , the Government continue to work with local authority to improve their exist non - statutory register . rise — I give way to the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Paul Blomfield ) , just because he have have a go three time . I thank the Minister for give way . accord to the 2021 census , there be over 197 , 000 young carer under the age of 18 . that be recognise to be an underestimate , so when 85 % of headteacher tell the school census that they have no young carer in their school , that only illustrate how those carer be unrecognise within the system . evidence submit to the inquiry hold by the all - party parliamentary group on young carer and young adult carer say that young carer have double the persistent absence rate of their peer — 41 . 6 % — but they be not recognise in the Department for Education ' s guidance on work together to improve school attendance . when this debate have finish , will the Minister go away and review that guidance , and would he consider require all school to have a lead for young carer in the way that they do for SEN , to make sure they be no long unrecognise within our system ? the hon . Gentleman be right to identify the number of young carer grow up in our country and go through our school system and the particular need they have , issue that be directly relevant in the case of absence . we be work to improve understanding of where there be young carer , include through the school census that the hon . Gentleman mention and also through the guidance that we issue . as he will know , " keep child safe in education " be the main guidance on that subject that be issue to school : it require designate safeguarding lead to be aware of the need of young carer , but try to understand those need be something that go broad within school community . of course , dedicated professional work in our school system seek to do exactly that . it be so generous of the Minister to give way . in my constituency , family struggle . the cost of living crisis be ever present , and the housing crisis force many family to move from house to house . child end up quite a long way from school because parent , understandably , want their child to have some level of stability and keep they in the school where they know their friend and their teacher . to be honest , my school be brilliant and the teacher be really committed , but surely we need recognition that cut to council budget , combine with the massive increase in need that there be at the moment , be a contribute factor to child be out of school . do he accept that ? order . can I just say to Opposition Members , first , that intervention should not be speech ; and secondly , that they be take up their own time , and they will lose time on the second debate ? of course , I readily acknowledge that cost of living pressure and inflationary pressure have be difficult for family in many way . it be also true that the single most important thing to underpin family budget be employment , and we be benefit from the still very high rate of employment in this country . we be also benefit from the proportion of people in work on low pay have come down significantly as a result of the national living wage . yes , there be much more to do , but there be also a great deal happen . I should now make some progress . to go back to the child not on school register , the Government continue to work with local authority to improve non - statutory register . I have already mention the consultation on revise guidance for elective home education . through termly data collection , we be also increase the accuracy of register , improve the understanding of this cohort of child . however , true accuracy can only be gain with mandatory register , stipulate the datum to be record and an accompany duty on parent to inform local authority when they be home educating . we often say that reading be the most fundamental thing in education , because if someone can not read they can not access the curriculum , and then nothing else in school really work . however , there be one thing that be even more fundamental than read , and that be attendance , because whatever great thing our schoolteacher do , they can only benefit the child who be there to benefit from they . I be pleased that we have start to see some progress in this area . there be 380 , 000 few pupil persistently absent or not attend in 2022 - 23 than the previous year . I be not quite sure how the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South do the extrapolation to her figure of one in four — [ interruption . ] well , that be not what the data series say . on Thursday , we will see the first datum publish for persistent absence in this academic year . we shall see what that say , but I hope it will show some further improvement . in any event , we certainly know that there be furth to go . our comprehensive attendance strategy include a number of different element . there be clear expectation of the whole system , include require school to have an attendance policy and to appoint an attendance champion , and for local authority and school to agree individual plan for at - risk child . my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) will be lead a debate in Westminster Hall very soon in connection with and in support of her presentation Bill on make such obligation statutory . on datum , which the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South speak about , our attendance datum tool now provide near real - time information , not once a year , to allow early intervention and avoid absence become entrenched . we already have 88 % of school take part in our world - lead daily register datum pilot , and we want that to be 100 % by September . will the Minister give way ? I ask the hon . member to forgive I , in the interest of time . we have target support in which school with strong attendance performance support other that need help , and we be expand that so that almost 2 , 000 school will benefit . our mentoring pilot , which I think the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South inadvertently refer to , be deliver one - to - one support for persistently and severely absent child . that be currently take place in Middlesbrough , Knowsley , Doncaster , Stoke and Salford , and it will be extend to 10 new area , with a total of 10 , 000 child , later this year . system leadership be incredibly important . that be why we have the attendance action alliance , which bring together leader not only from the world of education , but from child ' s social care , health and allied service . they be all work together to address the wide barrier to and enabler of attendance . as I say early , we must be very clear that some child do need to be off school some of the time . that have always be the case , but there have be some change in attitude since covid , with a great propensity to keep a child at home with minor illness , such as a cough or cold in some case . we need to recalibrate at least back to where we be pre - covid . that be why we have launch the national campaign " Moments Matter , Attendance account " to re - emphasise the importance of every day in school , not only for learn but for wellbeing , experience and friendship . alongside this , we have make attendance a key theme of school and child ' s service reform . we have provide additional funding for recovery , include for tutoring and direct funding for school . to help family , we have commit an additional sum of £ 200 million to scale - up the Supporting Families programme , which of course have a specific requirement on school attendance . we be also spend on the national school breakfast programme to provide around 350 , 000 breakfast on a school day in over 2 , 500 school , target at the most disadvantaged area . I also say to the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South that we should look at target secondary school as well as primary school , because persistent absence can of course be particularly concentrate in the secondary age group . there be now considerably more child in receipt of free school meal than the last time a Labour Government be in office . this be despite the fact — [ interruption . ] this be despite the fact , I say to the hon . Lady , that there be 600 , 000 few child live in workless household and that , thank to the national living wage , the proportion of people in work but in low pay have halve . mental health barrier be also a very important part of this . that be why we be work with NHS England to increase the number of mental health support team . they already cover 47 % of pupil in secondary school , and that will increase to at least 50 % across all phase by March next year . I be pleased to report that the late datum show that , while there be still a lot to do , there be some cause for cautious optimism . overall attendance last term be 93 . 2 % , up from 92 . 5 % in autumn 2022 - 23 , mean that pupil in England on average attend the equivalent of around a day and a half more across an academic year than they do the previous year . so while there be still a long way to go , this do represent progress . to conclude , for the vast majority of child school of course continue to be the good place for their education , and it have never be more important to be at school . England ' s primary school child be now the good reader in the western world , and at secondary we have make considerable progress . the hon . Lady say some interesting thing about PISA , the main international study of attainment — not the only one , but the main one — in which England have move up the ranking , have previously come down the ranking before 2010 . the hon . Lady say that in the end it be the score , not the ranking , that matter , and she be of course right . I be surprised she do not know this , however : she say education have not be badly affect by covid in every country , but I have to tell she that covid have give a real knock to education across most of the world . [ interruption . ] I beg the hon . Lady ' s pardon ? [ interruption . ] it have take a great knock across much of the world and much of the world be now engage in recovery programme to make up that ground . but what the PISA result show be that the knock sustain in this country be less than in very many other country . the PISA result also highlight something else about education in England . it identify this country as be in the relatively small set of what it call " equitable system . " in other word , as well as have strong performance relative to other country , that performance be well spread out . there have always be some child who be educate at home , and I repeat my early tribute to parent who , in so many case , give up so much to do this and do it so well . however , covid create a big increase on top of what be already growth in the number , and it be important that we understand that . the wide issue be that the legacy of the pandemic have also mean that school absence level be too high . we remain committed to work with pupil , parent , teacher , local authority , the health service and other partner to tackle these issue through our support - first approach , build on the strength of the current system and the success achieve by teacher and leader in our school prior to the pandemic . be in school have never be more valuable for pupil , with standard continue to rise . I be hugely grateful to all our brilliant teacher , head , partner throughout the system and everyone who have work to create the progress achieve so far , and I be confident there be a great deal more to come . this be not just an education crisis ; it be a health crisis and a crisis of equality , too . the number of child who be not get the education they be entitle to have , as we have hear , hugely increase in recent year for a variety of reason . it be therefore no surprise that the figure that my party have produce show that over the autumn and spring term , more than 1 . 5 million child be persistently absent from primary and secondary school , which be more than double the number of five year ago . a huge number of child be be let down , and their entire life will be affect . it will impact on the opportunity they may have , never mind the education they be lose . if we be not careful , this crisis could see an entire generation write off , yet the figure continue to rise and the system seem unable to cope . in my local authority area , Cheshire West , absence rate for pupil have roughly double in the past three year , lead to the crisis point we have reach today . there be a number of reason for that huge increase , but undoubtedly a major factor from what I be see be how we be deal with child with special educational need . the number of pupil with an education , health and care plan in Cheshire West have rise by nearly 50 % in three year , and that be before we talk about all those child who be yet to actually get an ehcp . as I recount the story of some of my constituent , the House will see how this issue be grow and how a depressingly familiar pattern be form . a child be struggle at school , and there be often an undiagnosed medical issue . it could be that the pupil need an EHCP or a referral to child and adolescent mental health service . neither be easy to get , and all the while the situation at school be deteriorate . eventually , the school say that it can not deal with the child anymore , or the child can not cope with school . relationship break down and education grind to a halt . far too often in those situation , the feeling that parent get be that they be on their own . what I hear from these child ' s parent be that they just want to do what be good for their child , but they feel that they be on their own . they be often exhausted , always frustrated , and they feel they have to battle the whole time — the school , the NHS and the system — just to get the education their child have a right to . I will quote one parent , because she be worth listen to . she say : " there need to be more pastoral and mental health support within school . this Government need to understand that a one size curriculum do not fit all . child ' s mental health service be so overstretched and under - resource that young people be on waiting list for month on end and no support while they wait . all of the above have contribute to my girl have lot of absence . lot of letter home with threat of further action not only cause distress to young people , but also the parent . " I attend the National Autistic Society event on education this morning and a useful phrase be use : " collaboration , not confrontation " . that should be a useful guide for we move forward . the same event reveal that a survey say that three quarter of parent of autistic child do not think their child ' s school meet their need . shockingly , only 39 % of teacher have receive more than half a day ' s autism training . those figure tell we an awful lot about where we could put some thing right . whether it be an autism assessment or support for a mental health condition , my constituent be often wait a year or even more just to get that assessment . a year be such a long time in a young person ' s life , and wait of that length or even long do not help the child who be obviously suffer with a whole range of issue . they may have anxiety and depression to the extent that they be not able to attend school . they may be self - harm and they be have to wait to get that assessment because their case be supposedly not serious enough . we have to wonder what kind of system think that a year out of a child ' s life , when every day of their education count , be not worthy of more priority . finally , I will say a little about the Children and Families Act 2014 . if a child with special educational need have a name school on their ehcp , that school must admit the child , regardless of whether place be available . that be the law , but that do not seem to be happen in practice . after the battle the parent have in try to get the EHCP in the first place , which can go on for month , if not year , the battle be still sadly not over . we be now see a trend where parent be fight at the consultation stage , with potential school be identify but refuse to take the pupil . we be get more and more example of child become education orphan because no school will take they . their condition be often too complex for a mainstream school , but all the specialist school be full . we know of a 14 - year - old who have be out of education for three month because all the specialist provision in the area be full . we be help a six - year - old with an EHCP who be at a mainstream school that can not support he . consultation be ongoing with three other school , but so far two of they have refuse to take he . the question for he be : when will he get that education ? the question for so many other parent around the country be : when will their child get the education that they deserve ? education be key to young people have access to skill and opportunity in the future , so we be right to be concern about attendance . in spring last year , nearly 1 . 5 million child be persistently absent from school , which mean that nearly one in five of our child be miss 10 % or more of their school time : the equivalent of an afternoon or more every week . the sudden surge in persistent and severe absence risk a profound impact on educational attainment and long - term outcome . that be why before Christmas I table a Bill to tackle this issue , and I will be lead a debate in Westminster Hall shortly . we should be proud of our nation ' s young people . we should be proud that child in England now rank 11th in the world for math and 13th for read . back in 2010 , when today ' s school leaver be just start out in reception , the same league table place those same cohort of child at 27th for math and 25th for read . there have be phenomenal progress ; we must not let it slip . the reason for increase level of pupil absence be often multiple and complex , include issue such as support for those with special educational need and disability , anxiety and mental health . we know , for example , that if a child ' s special educational need be unmet , that can lead to they miss out on education . change in attitude towards minor ailment may be another drive force behind school absence , and there may be other change societal issue . it have be suggest to I that increasingly more addictive online gaming be impact negatively on mental health and result in more child and young people miss school . I would like to see more research on that . for the most vulnerable pupil , regular attendance be an important protective factor . absence from school can expose young people to other harm , such as be draw into crime or serious violence . in address school attendance , it be important that we do not simply lay the blame at the door of hard - work parent . Most parent want their child to do well , but many need help to support their child to fulfil that aspiration . secure attendance require an holistic approach , bring together school , family , the local authority and other local partner . much detailed work have already be undertake on this issue . as the Minister say , in 2022 , follow a detailed consultation , the Department for Education publish new guidance entitle , " work together to improve school attendance . " it be over 60 page long and extremely detailed , with a lot of emphasis put on early help and multidisciplinary support . last year , the Education Committee do a detailed inquiry on the issue of attendance . witness agree that the guidance need to be put on a statutory footing , and that be a major recommendation from the inquiry . the Children ' s Commissioner , the Centre for Social Justice and the Select Committee all support make it mandatory to follow good practice . therefore , before Christmas , I table a private Member ' s Bill that would make that happen . the Bill would make the guidance statutory so that all school , trust , local authority and other relevant local partner would need to follow it . it would introduce a new general duty on local authority to use their function to promote regular attendance and reduce absence , and require school of all type to have and publicise a school attendance policy . the DFE have say that it will publish a revise version of the guidance ahead of the new provision come forward . I note that the shadow Minister — who be not listen — have call for the introduction of a register of child who be out of school due to elective home education . I fully agree that improve the datum and visibility of these child , so that council can verify that they be receive a suitable education in a safe environment , would be a good step forward . that be also support by the Local Government Association . it be not part of my Bill , but be part of a separate Bill table before Christmas by my hon . friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) , a former ofsted inspector . in order for the shadow Minister to get what she want , all she need to do be support the private Member ' s Bill . if she really want it so much , why do she not ask any of the Labour Members who top the private Member ' s Bill ballot , come in first , fourth and fifth place , to table it ? it would have have its Second reading last Friday and already be in Committee . my School Attendance ( duty of Local Authorities and Proprietors of Schools ) Bill be schedule to have its second reading on 2 February . I hope it will get cross - party support from mps , include the shadow Minister , so that it can move forward swiftly . first , I extend my deep sympathy to the family of Sir Tony Lloyd . I would also like to mention that , as member will know , I be a proud Somerset councillor . Tory cut to local authority have have far - reach consequence . in Somerset , that have be mix with a toxic cocktail of the previous Tory administration ' s financial ineptitude . this perfect storm have vastly increase the burden on local authority to deliver high - quality statutory frontline service , which resident should expect . particular pressure be on education . in the 2022 autumn term , Somerset state school have a primary school absence rate of 5 . 3 % , include 3 . 2 % due to illness . at secondary level , there be a 10 . 2 % absence rate , include 4 . 9 % due to illness . the statistic do not reflect what the illness be — acute or chronic , covid - related or not . that reflect a wide problem . we be treat child with SEND as a homogenous identity . I fully support a " child not in school " register , which reflect that datum , as the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) propose . one of my constituent be 13 - year - old Otis . he have a diagnosis of autism and Tourette ' s syndrome . Otis first attend a mainstream school , but his parent tell I that , despite the school ' s good effort , it do not work out for he . Otis then move to a special school , the Mendip School in Prestleigh , but that do not work either , despite the school do everything that it could . otis ' s parent say : " Otis feel that he be place with pupil with much more significant , and much more visible , need . his education offer be gradually whittle until he do not go to the school site at all . " if Otis take up a rare special school place in September , he will have be out of school for two and a half year . the trend be clear . pupil with SEND start school with absence and be either officially or effectively suspend or exclude . mind ' s 2021 report " not make the Grade " show that 68 % of interview pupil have at least one absence due to mental health . we need top - down direction from the Department to ensure that school do not unfairly penalise pupil with SEND for low attendance . that include child with possible mental health issue who have not receive a diagnosis because of the NHS backlog that this Government have cause . we simply can not view all child with SEND as a conglomerate , in the same way that we would not group together numeracy and literacy statistic . child A , who be non - verbal with autism , might be absent because she need to be in a sensory tent without disruption . child B , with I , might be absent because he be not physically able to get out of bed . child C , in a wheelchair with muscular dystrophy , might be absent because the staff member who help they with sanitary need be off that day . meanwhile , child d , E and F be almost invisible in the system , because they be on a two - year waiting list for a diagnosis , they be the sibling of a seriously ill child and go without sleep , or they might have tell their teacher they just have the flu to avoid question about their mental health . I know all six of those child , and I suspect many colleague know child just like they . we need the Government to recognise key difference in the SEND acronym ; to set up a national SEND body ; to have comprehensive training for all civil servant , Ministers and council and school staff ; to have a mental health practitioner in every school ; to ring - fence funding for local authority to halve the cost of an EHCP for school ; and to reform the Mental Health Act . we need a child not in school register that be sensitive and inform . these policy will help to ensure child be not alienated from their peer or shut out of education . we Liberal Democrats have commit to all those thing . when we really understand the reason why so many child be absent , we can deliver effective and tailor solution to level up our stratified society , and give all our child a grade 9 education . as the Minister state , the motion conflate two very important but distinct issue . " Absent " and " not in school " sound similar , but if the shadow Minister the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) think that absence be all about child be home educate , which be what my private Member ' s Bill be about , she have fail to grasp the issue . both be important and both need to be address , but the motion fail to do so . my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) be introduce a Bill to address school attendance , particularly persistent absence , and I be put forward a Bill to introduce a register of home - educate child who be not in school , which be much more long term . I would like to address why I be put my Bill forward . the only thing on which I agree with the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South be that currently no one — Government , local authority or school — can honestly answer the question , how many child be miss from school ? therefore , how can we know that every child be safe and suitably educate ? equally concern be the number of child who have disappear from the school roll altogether . while we do not have the datum to fully understand where these child be , it be think that many may have move into home education . I want to take this opportunity to make it absolutely clear that I fully believe that parent have the right to choose what education their child receive . that right should be enshrine in law . parent be in the good place to make informed choice about what their child need , with many parent provide a high - quality home education for their child . however , that be not the case for every child in home education , with a worrying number be take off roll for reason other than their good interest , with the parent not have be able to make a fair and free choice . research by the Centre for Social Justice have uncover a grow number of parent opt for home education because they feel that they have no other option due to their child ' s need not be meet in school . that could be the result of difficulty in access SEND provision — many autistic child be in this category — a lack of support for mental health , unresolved bullying issue or health concern follow the pandemic . Most troubling be the evidence that show some parent have feel coerce into home education for reason other than the child ' s good interest , through the scourge that be call off - rolling . I would like to take a moment here to pay tribute to the many parent , include my niece , who be do an admirable job of provide their child with a high - quality home education . however , that be simply not the reality for every child . with no comprehensive datum collect , we do not know what proportion of child receive a suitable education . England be an international outlier in that respect . a number of organisation , include Ofsted , the Children ' s Commissioner and the Centre for Social Justice , have uncover worrying report of home - educate pupil be leave without access to an appropriate quality of education — one of my constituent write to I and say that he have be in that category — and parent be leave struggle to cope with the demand of home education . as the number of home - educate child increase , so should our drive to ensure that parent be able to exercise their right to choose how good to educate their child , and that every child be support to achieve the good educational outcome possible . implement a child not in school register be the natural first step to achieve that . a register would not seek to disrupt a parental right to choose where and when they educate their child . quite the contrary , as a register can be use to offer resource to family , who be often home educating at great personal cost , should they want such support . the register would allow we to find and support those child and family who have be leave on the fringe of the education system , and who may be at risk of harm . it be time to bring these child who be out of sight and out of mind back into the light . education be key to the country ' s continued prosperity and must remain the focus of any Government . I would like to thank the Government for their interest in my Bill , and the Opposition , who appear to be interested as well , and I look forward to continue my work with they as it proceed through both Houses . I ask the Opposition to stop play party politic with such an important issue , and I hope all side of the House will back my Bill to introduce a child not in school register , which be so important for ensure the welfare and education of every single child . it be good to follow the hon . member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) , and I commend her effort in produce a private member ' s Bill on this important subject , but I be a bit confused : if we all agree that it be important , why do the Government not just vote for our motion ? my hon . friend the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) , the shadow Secretary of State , show we very neatly exactly who be put party politic above our kid this afternoon , and it be not Opposition Members . even well , if the Government be so much in favour of this , why do they not produce legislation in their own time ? it be they who dictate the timetable of this place pretty much all the time , so if they be so concerned about our child , it surely should not have be leave to the Opposition to put forward this motion . my hon . Friend make that case very well . underlie this issue , as I think many would accept , be the fact that the partnership between parent and school be more or less broken . the team that our kid need to support they — their parent , their wide family and their teacher — be all struggle and find life very hard . I want to make three brief suggestion for how we can put that partnership right and how we can all do some very simple thing to help our child to have a well chance at school , reflect in particular on my own experience in the Wirral . first , breakfast club be extremely important to give child the good possible start to the day . they be also very good for parent , especially those who be under pressure to get a decent job so that they can afford the dreadful rise in the cost of live that we have see recently . if a school have a breakfast club , it mean that the parent of the child there can choose a job that start at 9 am , which can make all the difference in the world to a family . it can encourage mum as well as dad to take a job , and have a second earner in a home be a very good way of tackle poverty . labour ' s policy of put breakfast club into every school be about ensure not just that our child have an excellent start in every primary school , but that they have a great start to the day , and also about give their parent that choice of job . my second point be about mental health support inside and outside school . a couple of member have already mention this . I have witness for myself what be happen to our child in the Wirral , particularly when family be affect by disability or special educational need , in which regard an excellent case be make early . the current SEND system be break , and we do not know nearly enough to support child with those need . our problem in the Wirral be be exacerbate by a lack of educational psychologist , but ultimately the way to tackle the problem be to ensure that every child have access to good mental health support . put that base level of professional in every school will help child to receive support early in their school journey , and will prevent the exacerbation of those mental health problem . strengthen the mental health workforce in school should be our first response to ensure that child ' s problem do not become bad , because we know that many mental health problem start in the early teenage year . finally , I think that one of the most important thing we could do to help rebuild the relationship between family and school , and ensure that everyone be really give our kid the good start in life — apart from excellent English and math teach , of course — be to provide a broad curriculum . when I see school in the Wirral with fantastic sport team , and great , active school where child have the opportunity to perform on stage , perhaps to tell a story about who they be and what they care about through the perform art , there be no doubt in my mind that those child be much happy at school . it help to build the school community . I be glad that the Minister seem to be agree with I from a sedentary position ; my only regret be that the past 14 year have do very little to support that vision . I be pleased to make a contribution to this debate . the subject of school absence and level of school attendance be a particular challenge we be face at the moment in Cornwall , where rate of school absence be significantly high than the national average . we have see around an 8 . 5 % level of absence in recent year , when the national average be about 7 . 4 % . nationally , about 24 % of pupil be persistently absent , but in Cornwall that figure be almost 35 % . I think that there be particular reason why we be see that in Cornwall . we have see a large number of people move to Cornwall in recent time , certainly since the pandemic , and many of they be come because of the lifestyle Cornwall have to offer and the choice available to they when they move to Cornwall . I have a number of concern about how the situation that we be face be be handle . for many year I have be concern at what I see as the state encroach on the role of parent , and that seem to be happen more and more . I be concern about this long before I come to this House , and it do not seem to be stop . I believe firmly that the primary responsibility for the welfare and raising of child have to lie with parent , and although the state can support parent and help they in that role , it should not seek to take over that role . I be pleased to hear the Minister confirm at the Dispatch Box that the Government ' s position be that they will always support the right of parent who wish to home educate their child to do so . that be absolutely the right position to take . many parent choose to home educate their child for very positive reason , and I have to say that some of the most mature , articulate , intelligent and well - rounded child I have ever meet in my life have be home educate . however , many parent now regrettably find themselves have to home educate their child not because that be what they believe be right for their child but because they feel force into that situation . they can not find the right school environment and support for their child , who might have particular challenge such as autism or a mental health condition . one particular factor that I think be drive this issue be the attendance target . the overbearing , heavy - handed approach that many school be take to attendance target be leave no flexibility for child who be face particular challenge , and parent be be threaten with fine for not bring their child to school . I have even have one parent show I letter from their GP say that their child be suffer with a mental health challenge and would therefore not be able to attend school regularly , but the school still fine the parent for that child not be in school regularly . this whole drive to reach the attendance target seem to be the only thing that matter , with no flexibility and no allowance be make for the condition or circumstance that a family or child find themselves in , and this be create tension and break down the relationship between the school and the parent at the very time that those parent need support from the school . I ask the Minister whether we can look at that situation . I know that the Government ' s official position be that headteacher have discretion and flexibility , but I be afraid that that message have not get through to Ofsted , which I be tell still regularly mark down school that fail to reach the 95 % attendance target even when the headteacher can demonstrate sensible reason why certain child have not be able to attend school . the Minister know from his previous time in the Department that I have never agree with fine parent when their child miss school . I believe it be a very un - Conservative thing to do . at least let we take away that threat of fine parent when there be legitimate reason why their child have not be able to attend school . I could give he a long list . my office be now contact almost every week by parent who be withdraw their child from school because they want to avoid the fine when their child be not able to attend regularly , even with very good reason . I have no more time , but will the Minister please look at this situation and how these target be drive what I believe be counterproductive behaviour by school ? it be not the teacher ' fault , as I think it be come from policy and from Ofsted . order . I think we all agree on the value of education and how it can enrich child ' s life and give they the good possible start . I be proud that improvement and development in education have be the legacy of every Labour Government to date . it therefore pain I that I be , yet again , rise to talk about an issue in which this Government have oversee almost a decade and a half of manage decline . the number be terrify . school absence treble between 2016 and 2022 . if trend continue , 200 , 000 child will miss half of their school time by 2026 . school absence be a threat to the education that be so vital in set up our child for life and give they the good possible start , but it be not an isolated issue . yes , school absence be a cause of increase barrier to opportunity , but they be also a symptom of wide issue . in rural area like my constituency , school absence be exacerbate by inadequate public transport and sparse special need education . as other hon . member have mention , there be a multitude of reason why child be not in school . it be not just because they be home educated , but because they be affect by parental imprisonment , because they be young carer or because they have disability . we need a register that capture the barrier child face , otherwise we have no hope of break down those barrier . I mention inadequate public transport . skelmersdale in my constituency , as anyone who have hear I speak in this Chamber will know , have 40 , 000 people and no train station . it also have a woefully inadequate bus service , with my constituent report issue with reliability and frequency . we can remove the barrier that make get to school more difficult for those in rural community if we focus on what really matter to they . similarly , child with special educational need must be able to get the support they need . one of my constituent , whose child have not be in school for almost six month , tell I that the school identify by the local authority tell they that their child be " unsuitable " for the school . there be no unsuitable child , only underfunde , overstretch school . the Government recognise the omission in their SEND strategy when , in March 2023 , they publish their SEND and alternative provision improvement plan . however , the plan do not address how rural SEND pupil may risk fall through the net or how failure in provision may be contribute to school absenteeism . mainstream school be generally expect to use their delegate funding to meet the need of student with special educational need who do not have an education , health and care plan . if a school be unable to meet those need within its budget , or if a pupil can not be swiftly assess and provide with an EHCP , we risk they be absent from the education they need and deserve , through no fault of their own or their parent . I have be contact by numerous parent in my constituency who essentially keep their child from school because they be fearful that the school can not meet their child ' s need and truly believe that it be more harmful for their child to be in school than not . improve school attendance and reduce absenteeism require an holistic assessment of the barrier that child face . it require timely medical care , short waiting list when our child get sick , improvement to public transport and well SEND service to ensure that child ' s need be be meet . how many child be not regularly attend school and be , therefore , list in school absence figure because SEND provision be stretch and mainstream schooling be not meet their need ? People in rural community like mine understand that some child be miss school not through their own fault or their own choice but because they simply can not get there or , if they can , because the school do not meet their need . labour ' s plan to address the issue of absence be simple : roll out breakfast club , put mental health support into school , and make sure that SEND provision be join - up and adequate . under Labour , child will have a change to the school system ; we will nurture an environment and provide school they can access and thrive in . by the time parent come to see I in the surgery about their child not attend school , it be clear that the system have already fail they . parent come to see I in tear as they talk about their child be refuser and the difficulty they have try to get they out of the door . parent have tell I how their child become aggressive towards the parent who be try to take they or hysterical , and how some have threaten self - harm , all because — for whatever reason — they do not wish to attend school . it can be because of overwhelming anxiety , with child feel sick in the morning before they go into school , or because of mental ill health . parent tell I that child be develop rash relate to anxiety because they do not want to go to school . it can be because of bullying , with the add element of cyber - bullying . parent have tell I about a young person be encourage to take a photograph of themselves to send to their boyfriend at the time , only for it to go viral around the school . that young person then feel ashamed and humiliate , and be unable to go to school — in some case , they do not even feel able to leave their house . as have be mention by member from across the House , it can be because of an undiagnosed special need and the fact that the family have be wait for two year for the EHCP that they see as their golden ticket to finally get the help that their child need . what happen when these child be refuse to go and the parent — good parent — be try , but be unable , to make they ? the local authority have limit power to intervene . as the hon . member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) mention , the school ' s answer be sometimes to threaten to fine the parent , who be try to do the good by their child . the local authority can not insist on manage move ; it can only try to encourage school to support they , but it do not have the power to do this . up and down the country there be a lack of specialist place , and local authority be unable to open their own special school ; they have to do this through the free school system , so they can not manage adequately the demand in their area . as many people who work in local authority tell we , their spending on their high need block be way beyond the budget they have be give . what would any of we do if our child be refuse to go to school , become hysterical , threaten self - harm and clearly suffer with anxiety , if the school be threaten to fine we and if there be nowhere else for the child to go ? I can clearly see why parent say , " this be enough . I ' m withdraw my child from the system . " I have speak to many parent who have make that decision . what happen next varie , depend on the child and the parent involve . in some case , it be the good thing that happen to the child , as they regain their self - confidence and self - esteem , and start to mix again . often , there be a happy ending and they go to the 14 - to - 16 college , which be a completely different environment from the school , and go on to thrive . clearly , however , that be not the case for all child . some drop out of education never to return , and never get the qualification they need . unfortunately , some child be then incredibly vulnerable to exploitation and abuse . so what be the answer ? of course , the answer must always start with the early year and with communication skill . one of the first thing I do on become a Member of Parliament be to set up the all - party parliamentary group on oracy . equip young people with the ability to communicate and express how they feel be crucial , especially for young child who be so upset and frustrate that they do not want to go to school . give they the right tool to express themselves can open thing up . the Labour party be also promise health visitor who support child before they go to school . we also need to focus on early year education to support child and prepare they for when they go to school , so that they know what to expect . crucially — I be so proud that our party be support this — we need mental health professional in every school . teacher be not mental health professional . when I be a teacher , I be not a mental health professional . these professional be need in school to support child ; we can not put that on the teacher . as have be mention , we need a curriculum review , so that we have a curriculum that equip child now and in the future — and , dare I say it , that make school fun and make the child want to go . finally , breakfast club will help and encourage child to attend school . I visit Christopher Pickering Primary School in my constituency last week and hear about the breakfast club it offer for a limited number of pupil . kid be tell I it be great . they do " just Dance " — luckily , I be unable to join in — and dodgeball . they play with their friend and they start the day happy . with a Labour Government , that opportunity would be offer to every single child , and that can not come soon enough . across the House , I be sure we can all agree that provide our child with a high - quality education be one of the most important thing we can do — an education that inspire they to learn , help they to discover their interest and passion , and set they up for life . but if child be not in school every day , they can not access the opportunity they need . school should not be see as an optional activity , to be dip in and out of . however , research by the Centre for Social Justice find that more than one in four parent think that school be not essential every day — not just one in four adult , but one in four parent . that signify a real breakdown in the relationship between school , family and Government , because what example be we set as a country if such a high proportion of parent be not prioritise get their child to school every day ? every child matter and , to those child , every day at school matter , but for year the problem of persistent absence have get bad on this Government ' s watch . last year , 21 . 2 % of child be persistently absent from school — over one in five — which be double the rate from just six year ago . in my local authority of Newcastle upon Tyne , the number of child miss half their lesson rocket by 282 % between 2016 and 2022 . the Secretary of State say that keep child in school be her " number one priority " , but absence rate have be rocket for year and we have see so little action . it only become a priority because the Labour party have consistently speak about this issue and now , because of the Tories ' inaction , the situation be spiral out of control , yet they still do not have a long - term plan . the problem do not exist in isolation . our child be face a mental health crisis , record number be live in poverty and they be be teach in school that one teacher recently describe to I as " joyless " . what be at stake here be a lost generation miss from Britain ' s school , yet where be the Government ' s plan to deal with it ? my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) speak powerfully about the impact on family in his area , particularly family with child with special educational need . my hon . friend the Member for Wirral South ( Alison McGovern ) make a powerful case for why the Government should back Labour ' s motion today . my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) rightly identify that we need to break down the barrier to opportunity , which mean break down the barrier to school attendance , as do my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) . unlike the Tories , Labour will work in government to break down those barrier to opportunity . we will get our child back into the classroom and we have outline a plan to address the problem if we be in government . we recognise that not every child learn in school . we support every parent to make the choice about whether they send their child to school or home educate they , but to ensure no child fall through the gap , we need a proper record of where our child be be educate . that should not be controversial . the conservative even propose a register of child not in school , before shelve it when education be no long a priority for they . the hon . member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) have campaign on this issue and the right hon . member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) speak powerfully about her campaign on school attendance , but it be shameful that these matter about which Conservative Back Benchers be lobby their own Government will have to wait for a Labour Government to fix they . we would get on with the job and introduce a register , allow council to request information on home education and the ability to visit premise . it be part of our plan to deliver high and rise standard for the next generation . the hon . Lady make some great point . the problem with the motion be that it talk about persistent school absence . persistent school absence relate to child who be already on the school roll , and school be able to track they . a register of child not in school be purely for home - educate child , and not for those on a school register , which be for child who be persistently absent . I thank the hon . Lady for her clarification , but we be not unclear about this . we do not disagree on the need both to tackle persistent absence and to have a register that identifie where child be be educate . that be something that the Government have pledge to do . the hon . Lady should continue to put pressure on the Government who have the power to do something about it right now , or Labour will do it in government . we will also roll out free breakfast club in every primary school . evidence show that they improve child ' s learning and development , and they have a positive impact on attendance and behaviour . we will fully fund those club by end the non - dom tax break for the mega - rich . it be as much about the club as it be about the breakfast , provide child with a soft start to the school day , and with opportunity to play and socialise with their friend , set they up well to learn throughout the day . when the Minister sum up , perhaps he can support labour ' s call for free breakfast club in every primary school , rather than the fraction that the Government ' s programme currently reach . labour be also commit to address the mental health crisis that our child be face . it be a key barrier to learning , yet child remain on long CAMHS waiting list , unable to access the support they need . we would recruit thousand of new staff to bring down those waiting list and put specialist mental health professional in school and community hub , so that child can get the help they need , solve problem before they get bad . we would tackle this issue head - on , not let it spiral far out of control . we also need to see accountability in our system . labour ' s plan will involve annual school check , which cover persistent absence , off - roll and child safeguarding , so that problem be pick up early on , not leave until the next inspection . in Wales , for example , Estyn have strengthen its reporting requirement on attendance , and all school be now require to make available their attendance policy . we would reset the relationship that have weaken confidence in our inspection system by reform the one - word headline grade with a report card , identify area where school need to improve and deliver the support to do so through new , regional improvement team . do the hon . Lady support make school responsible for the child they exclude ? the hon . Gentleman will know that that be part of his Government ' s school accountability system . obviously , we will undertake a full review of our approach to Ofsted . we will also include and address many issue on which this Government be currently fail . if school be to offer high - quality education , we must ensure that our child be learn a curriculum that well set they up for life . the pandemic shine a light on how child ' s early speech and language development be affect , and we know that strong early communication skill boost outcome and provide well engagement with school . we would prioritise equip primary school with funding to deliver early , evidence - base language intervention . when it come to the curriculum more broadly , we know that it need reform . it be far too narrow and it be put child off learn . the life satisfaction score of UK student have fall through the floor in recent year . the UK now have the second low average life satisfaction of 15 - year - old in the OECD . we see that the opportunity for music , art , sport and drama be often squeeze . opportunity for discussion and debate be few and far between . our curriculum and assessment review would look at deliver a broad curriculum that prepare child for the future , reflect the issue and diversity in our society . assessment would capture the full strength of every child , give they an excellent foundation in reading , writing and math without sacrifice the thing that make school fun . to conclude , the difference labour will bring be clear . under the Tories , we have have 14 year of decline — of school standard slip , teacher leave in drove and education not even get a seat at the table — whereas labour will do what we do in 1997 : bring education back to the centre of national life , with a focus on put child first and ensure that excellence be for everyone . I commend the motion to the House . this Government be commit to give every child in this country a first - class education and every opportunity to make the most of their ability . although there be a small number of child who , for good reason , need to be educate elsewhere , we want all child to be at school every day . that be key for their life chance . for child who be home educate — a right that parent have , and we do not question that most do a very good job — it be vital that we know that the education they be provide with be suitable and that the child be safe . as my right hon . friend the Schools Minister say , the motion conflate two separate thing : the issue of persistent absence , which be when pupil miss 10 % or more of their lesson , and the topic of home education for those who be not in school . [ Official Report , 31 January 2024 , Vol . 744 , c . 11mc . ] to take persistent absence first , the year the Government come to power , persistent absence be at 16 . 3 % . we get that down to 10 . 5 % in 2015 - 16 , and it average 10 . 9 % in the five year prior to the pandemic . it be during the pandemic that it rise significantly again to 22 . 5 % . the Government be take wide - range action to tackle the matter . we have already establish 14 attendance hub across 800 school , reach 400 , 000 pupil . this term , we be more than double the number of hub so that nearly 2 , 000 school will be support . we be roll out an attendance mentor pilot that we have in five area to a further 10 area , and that programme will reach around 10 , 000 child . we have deploy 10 expert attendance adviser to support local authority and school trust . we have develop a data tool that help school to understand the local trend and target their support , and we have strengthen our guidance to local authority . for the first time , school be expect to have a member of the senior leadership team responsible for attendance . evidence suggest that the strategy be work . there be 380 , 000 few persistently absent pupil in the past academic year , and in the last academic term overall absence be down to 6 . 8 % , from 7 . 5 % in the autumn term the year before . [ Official Report , 31 January 2024 , Vol . 744 , c . 12mc . ] that be all back by a national communication campaign to remind parent that " moment matter , attendance count " . the campaign aim to encourage parent to realise that their child should attend school if they have a mild cough or cold and no fever or vomit , and that mild anxiety can be make bad by a prolong period of absence . the campaign have be run across social medium and the radio . we be grateful to Sir Chris Whitty , the chief medical officer , for his letter reassure school leader that child should generally attend school if they have mild respiratory illness , because it be good for their wellbeing and a host of other thing . of course , mental health challenge underpin some of the absence — something raise by the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) , among other . that be why we have be roll out mental health support team , which now cover 44 % of pupil in school and college and will cover 50 % of those pupil by March 2025 . [ Official Report , 31 January 2024 , Vol . 744 , c . 12mc . ] we be offer all state school and college a grant to train a senior mental health lead , and we be pleased that 14 , 400 school and college have already take that up , cover seven school in 10 for all state secondary school . there be then the related but separate issue of a register for those who be home educate . I should declare that I serve on the Education Committee when my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) chair it , and we produce a report that recommend a register for those not in school . that remain a recommendation of the Education Committee . that be the register that be in the Schools Bill refer to in the motion and for which we remain committed to legislate . my hon . friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) have be do great work to champion this issue , and I look forward to the outcome of the Second reading of her child not in School ( Registers , Support and Orders ) Bill on 15 March . various point be raise in this debate and I will try and cover as many as possible . the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) and for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) raise issue about the SEND system . our SEND and AP improvement plan be design to address the issue that they raise about child be place in suitable provision and in a timely manner . we should not have child out of school for prolong period because they be unable to get their need meet . my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) , who I think be currently at her Westminster Hall debate , have introduce an important Bill , the School Attendance ( duty of Local Authorities and Proprietors of Schools ) Bill , and I look forward to see its progress through the House . the hon . member for Wirral South ( Alison McGovern ) raise the topic of breakfast club , which we be fund in 2 , 700 school . many school already have a breakfast club , of course , and have have for some time , but we be fund 2 , 700 . my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) raise the issue of fix penalty notice . our guidance be clear that there should be a " support first " approach , but penalty be there to prevent court action from take place . I should say that 89 % of the fixed penalty notice issue be for unauthorised term - time holiday , but I be happy to pick up that discussion with he . my final point be this : I have watch the Labour party try to reinvent itself as the champion of child be in school , and many Labour Members have raise issue about the pandemic , which be where many of the problem stem from . however , I remember their action during that pandemic . I remember how long it take they to say that school be safe . I remember the then Prime Minister stand here every week ask the Leader of the Opposition to say that school be safe , and he not do so . I remember that when one of Labour ' s union ally produce a statement say that teacher should not be teach a full timetable nor routinely mark work during that period , Labour say nothing to challenge it . when that same union team up with other union to produce a 200 - point list of thing they want to see before school return , the Labour party say nothing to challenge they . what be labour ' s big idea during the pandemic ? to go against the vaccination advice of the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation , which be that we should vaccinate by age , and instead vaccinate teacher — no other profession , just teacher — whatever their age . why ? because the union want that to happen . in addition to the motion conflate two separate thing , and in addition to this problem be bad in labour - run Wales , like all problem be , we will not allow the Labour party to reinvent the history of their behaviour under this Leader of the Opposition . they can not blame the last Leader of the Opposition for that ; it be under this Leader of the Opposition , the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) . it be this Government who do all they could to get child back to school during the pandemic , and it be this Government who be do all they can to get child back to school now . question put . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Yvonne Fovargue Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Daniel Zeichner Jeff Smith Christian Wakeford Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies James davy mim davy Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Jenkinson Joy Morrissey the House divide : Ayes 189 , Noes 303 . question accordingly negative . protect Steel in the UK let I say at the very start of the debate that a lot of hon . member on both side of the House wish to take part , so once we have hear from the Front Benchers there will almost certainly have to be a three - minute time limit , if we be to get everybody in . I beg to move , that this House recognise the need to decarbonise steel production ; appreciate the pride that local community have in their historic steelwork ; regret that the Government have push through plan for decarbonise steel in the UK which will result in thousand of steelworker lose their job and risk leave the UK as the first develop country in the world without the capacity to produce primary steel ; far regret that the Government have fail to produce an industrial strategy which could have include a plan for the whole steel sector ; believe that primary steel be a sovereign capability and be therefore concerned about the impact that the Government ' s plan could have on national security ; also believe that steel production can have a bright future in the UK ; therefore call on the Government to work with industry and worker to achieve a transition that secure job and primary steelmaking for decade to come ; and far call on the Secretary of State for Business and Trade to report to Parliament by 27 February 2024 with an assessment of the impact on the UK of the loss of primary steel production capability . Labour have secure this debate today because this be a hugely important issue . it be important not just because the future of the Port Talbot steelwork be integral to community across south Wales — I know that many hon . friend will be make that case passionately — but because it speak to a much big challenge that we face as a country : how to decarbonise heavy industry in a way that be effective for our climate objective and fair for our community . the opposition believe that the Government ' s push to decarbonise the steelwork at both Port Talbot and Scunthorpe , in a way that guarantee large job loss and have no support from the workforce or union , risk irrevocably damage work people ' s trust in the opportunity the net zero transition could bring . we believe that it be a calamitous mistake for the UK to become , under the Conservatives , the first major economy in the world without the ability to make our own primary steel . decade of underinvestment and manage decline have devastate our steel industry , as the news from Port Talbot painfully bring home , but as the Unite the union ' s worker ' plan for steel set out , with the right Government action this crucial industry can still be save . do my hon . friend agree that the Government must invest in UK steel , transition Britain ' s remain blast furnace to fully decarbonise steel production , save thousand of skilled job and put Britain at the heart of clean , green steel production ? I intend to make the case today that the UK steel industry could have a strong future , but that require a much well approach than the one we have see so far . will my hon . friend give way ? I be cautious of do so give the warning about time , but I will give way as I know my right hon . friend have a significant interest in this . I thank my hon . friend for give way . he will be aware that I have the privilege of represent Shotton steelwork , and he have be there with I to see the high - quality product make in that profitable plant , but in order to carry on it need to recruit and retain quality employee . what we have see , however , be a Government who do not care , and if that message get through to the workforce we be not go to retain those skill . rise — before the hon . Gentleman continue , may I make a point ? I understand how this game be play , and intervention be fine , but please understand from the Chair that if member intervene they be less likely to get call . it be a pleasure to visit the Shotton steelwork with my right hon . friend last year , and he will know that it begin as the Summers steelwork in Stalybridge in my constituency . he have much expertise , and I commend the argument and point he have put forward . the decision the Government have make will have consequence . they will have consequence for our national security and our resilience , and they risk leave we expose at a time of significant geopolitical instability . rise — I will take an intervention from the Government Benches and one more from the labour back Benches , if that be okay . if the hon . Gentleman be so determined that steel be a resource we as a nation should have , why be the Labour party against the west cumbrian coalmine , which would mean we would not have to bring in coal from Australia to smelt steel in blast furnace here ? we have considerable expertise in that matter , and that grade of coal be no good for the current way steel be produce in the UK , but the right hon . Gentleman be right to raise the point because the Government justify that coalmine on that basis and have now make a series of decision that , frankly , make that look even more absurd . today I hope to make the case for Labour ' s plan for an alternative way forward , an approach that be in no way base on misplaced nostalgia for the past but be instead base on hard - head reality and an assessment of our national interest . UK steel should have a bright future . it be not a sunset industry , and it be central to how a modern , low - carbon economy work . I ask the Minister , for whom I have considerable regard , to listen and engage today and to have a serious debate about what be about to happen and be willing to consider the alternative case . let we please not trade boilerplate rebuttal or pre - scripted line , but instead ask all colleague to listen to the rational case be put forward , which be serious , pragmatic and important and one I genuinely believe any conservative could agree with . many of my constituent be impact by this devastating closure , and close Port Talbot will mean the UK be the only G20 nation unable to make steel . do my hon . friend agree that this be an appalling decision ? of course , the decision have to be consider in conjunction with the one in Scunthorpe , and that be why this issue be so important and deserve the attention it be get today . I want to say one more thing by way of introduction . we have already hear from several Welsh colleague , and the decision of the Prime Minister and the Business Secretary to refuse even to have a phone call with the First Minister of Wales about this matter be profoundly wrong . anyone who be a supporter of the Union want to see productive , effective relationship across all UK Governments , and the Prime Minister ' s behaviour reflect extremely badly on he on this occasion . do the hon . Gentleman realise that I be the chairman of the transition board support all those worker who face the loss of their job ? I offer to speak to the First Minister last week . he have so far be too busy to do so . he have know about this potential problem since September , and only when it appear all over the paper do he suddenly appear to take an interest and want to make phone call . I think that be a pathetic response . I mean no discourtesy , but that be pathetic . it be entirely reasonable for the First Minister of Wales to seek a conversation with the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom . I will leave that there . I acknowledge that in the Public Gallery we have many steelworker who have make the journey here today , include man such as Alan , who have work at Port Talbot for 40 year , as do his father and both his grandfather , and Gary , who have work there for 37 year , and whose son now work in the hot mill . we have man and woman from Port Talbot , Scunthorpe and Trostre who start as apprentice . I want to thank they for the contribution that they and their family have make to the UK over many generation . last year , I go several time to steel site across Wales , and I meet the workforce at Port Talbot when these plan be first announce . they deserve a lot well than what they be be offer right now . at a minimum , they deserve this place take their case seriously and engage with these issue with the respect and consideration they require . rise — I can give way one more time , to my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) when I be a young reporter on the Evening Gazette , the steel industry support ten of thousand of job on Teesside alone . the decline start with Thatcher . when the government abandon Redcar nine year ago , number fall to a few hundred . steel be a foundation industry . surely we need primary steelmaking in this country if it have a real future . I agree entirely . rise — I will take an intervention from the Government Benches , then one from my hon . friend the Member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) , and then I will take no more . be the hon . Gentleman overlook the half a billion pound that the Government will contribute to Port Talbot , or the £ 1 . 25 billion in total ? when the Business and Trade Committee visit Port Talbot , we see a plant badly in need of new investment . this government be bring forward that investment and secure a future for the steel industry . I be not ignore that investment ; I be make the case that it be a bad deal and that there be a well deal for the resource available that would satisfy far more of our objective and give a well future to Port Talbot . I grow up , like the shadow Minister , in a region rip apart by the economic vandalism of Thatcher . be it not the case that the Tories be repeat the mistake of the past and claim there be no alternative , when the reality be that steel job can not only be save , but even create , with a proper plan that take advantage of the global demand for steel — especially low - carbon , green steel — which be go up fast ? I agree with that case . that be why this be such an important issue for Parliament to consider . I always acknowledge that there be part of it that be difficult . decarbonise industry be an urgent priority , but in some case the technology be uncertain or expensive . it be my contention , however , that get it right be more important than do it quickly or necessarily at the cheap cost . to state the obvious , we can decarbonise anything by shut it down . the cheap path will likely always involve outsource most of our industrial production to other place . if we do that — it be the Government ' s plan for Port Talbot — we will spend million of pound , and we will see huge job loss and global emission rise as we effectively offshore our emission and then claim that be progress . that would be a fundamental political mistake with potentially enormous ramification for the future of the transition to net zero . we should know that from our own past . as my hon . Friend mention , when I be a child grow up in the north - east in the 1980 , there be a major transition . we see the end of coalmining and shipbuilding and the old nationalise industry as we know they then . many colleague across the UK have similar personal experience . nobody today would propose that the UK should have an economic or energy policy base around large - scale coalmining , but how we manage the transition be fundamental . in the past , as a country , we have get that wrong . level up — supposedly the Government ' s flagship policy — be surely a recognition that the scar of those year and the impact of deindustrialisation be still feel in many part of the UK today , yet the Government risk make exactly the same mistake all over again . the decision of this Conservative Government to hand over half a billion pound of taxpayer ' money to make thousand of people redundant be quite simply a bad deal . it be a bad deal for worker , a bad deal for taxpayer and a bad deal for the future of our industrial sovereign capability . bad than that , it send a message that decarbonisation effectively mean deindustrialisation . I put it to conservative colleague that if net zero become a zero - sum game for work people , that risk the very support that we need to achieve the transition . there must be public consent for the transition , and that require our economy to benefit from well job and well opportunity . this be the real politic of get net zero right : it be not imaginary meat taxis or make - up claim about seven bin but whether the transition be just and fair and deliver something for Britain ' s worker . the Government ' s plan so far be simply none of those thing . the race to decarbonise be a race for job and prosperity , and this could be a hugely significant time for steel . as the Minister know , I have many criticism of government policy , and I believe that we have weak business investment , weak productivity and weak growth as a result . I recognise that the Port Talbot site be in a challenging financial position , but the Government have already recognise that uncompetitive energy price need tackle . we have procurement rule in place that be see significant steel content from the UK in infrastructure project , and we be get close to carbon border adjustment mechanism both here and in the EU , which will be a major development . cbam in particular will likely completely change the economic of the UK steel industry . there be no reason to believe that the UK can not have a vibrant steel sector , so to make this irreversible decision now , when the policy background be clearly improve , seem odd indeed . well option be on the table ; anyone claim otherwise be simply be disingenuous . when it come to Port Talbot , there be a specific alternative proposal available — the multi - union Syndex plan — which be not far off Tata ' s original proposal , which be know as Project Kronus . other proposal have also be put forward . all we ask be that the Government consider the issue involve and do not make any fundamental decision that be irreversible . it be widely accept at Port Talbot that blast furnace no . 5 be at the end of its life and may need to close , but blast furnace no . 4 will not need to be reline until 2032 . for the Government to force that furnace to close now , as we await the arrival of new technology , be an act of economic vandalism . we acknowledge that electric arc furnace be part of the answer , but we do not want to put all our egg in one basket , which mean be open to all technology , and especially direct iron reduction , which be one of the most exciting possibility . the counter - argument put forward so far be not robust . I believe that safety issue could be manage in the same way that they be every day at a major steelwork . the claim that 90 % of what Port Talbot do could be meet with an electric arc furnace do not stand up , as key product in packaging and automotive material can not be produce in one . at Scunthorpe , I understand that the lack of sufficient grid connection and the cancellation of the first carbon capture programme back in 2010 have severely limit the option available . again , I ask the Government not to make irreversible decision , to be open to all technology and to recognise the grow importance of and demand for steel . we be not the only country with these challenge , but everywhere we look , other country be do it well . take the Netherlands , where Tata be in negotiation with the Government on DRI technology ; Sweden , with the collaboration between SSAB , Vattenfall and lkab ; Canada , where ArcelorMittal sign an agreement some time ago to build a new green steel plant ; or the news just in of a $ 5 billion investment in a new green steel plant in Saudi Arabia . everywhere we look , other country be see growth and investment in their steel sector , but we be see the opposite . I put the question to Ministers : why be the UK pursue this path alone ? at Business and Trade oral question , the Minister have be ask repeatedly — mostly by Government Members — about the assessment the Government have make of become the only major economy without primary domestic steel production . her answer hint that she might get it , but the Government have plough on regardless . I ask she again : how can any Government possibly justify make thousand of worker redundant in the name of cut our carbon footprint only to pay to ship in more carbon - intensive steel from halfway across the world ? it do not have to be this way . we can not afford to blow this opportunity , repeat the mistake of the 1980 and leave regional inequality entrench — we can still see those scar . that be why I always say that , under Labour , decarbonisation will never mean deindustrialisation . I want green steel , and I believe that the workforce be our great asset in deliver that . any real plan for green steel must cover the whole industry . it must be open to all technology that be available , and it should fundamentally be a story of new job , new opportunity , new export and renew british economic strength , rather than outsource our emission and pretend that that be progress . the hon . Gentleman be be generous with his time . I come here this evening , as I be sure the worker sit in the Public Gallery do , to see whether there be a genuine plan on the table from the opposition . the hon . Gentleman say that there would be , but I have hear nothing specific . I have hear about none of the cost involve . he say that he be not interested in nostalgia , but most of the contribution from Opposition Back Benchers have be exactly that . where be the credible plan b that people want evidence of ? it be literally here in my hand . it be not hard to find . I say to conservative colleague that Google be their friend . I have try to say that the plan be available , but we will be pragmatic and flexible . we be just ask that irreversible decision be not make that limit the room for manoeuvre in future . on resource , we have earmark £ 3 billion of investment from our spending plan to deliver this , all of which be predicate on unlock much large sum of private investment . the Government do not disagree with the case for put money in , but the deal that they be put forward for that half a billion pound do not deliver very much at all . what a tragedy it would be in the future to find a Britain that be build home and infrastructure again , with secure low - carbon energy generation and a new wave of float offshore wind , but be not make the steel to provide those thing . labour have a plan to build a well Britain , and we want to build it with steel make in Britain . we will only get one opportunity to get this right , and we must bring worker and steel community with we . I will finish with what Gary Keogh , a steelworker from Port Talbot tell I : " the question for Tata and the UK Government be this — do we want to be a nation that make good , or a nation that import they from heavily pollute country ? it be not too late for Tata and the UK Government to think again and change course , but time be … run out . if they fail to take a different path now , the people of South Wales will never forgive they , and history win ' t forgive they either . there be so much at stake for all of we . " well say , Gary . I be ask the Minister — quite honestly , I be beg she — to consider the argument and what be really value for money , and not to make decision that be irreversible and prevent a far well outcome in future . to Britain ' s steelworker , I say that I know how desperate thing feel right now and how angry people be , but there be those of we who get it , who understand what this industry be and why it be important . give the opportunity , we will deliver the future for steel and the right transition that we all know be essential for our future prosperity , security and wellbeing . first , I want to express my sympathy for the employee of Tata Steel during what be undoubtedly a difficult , tumultuous time . I recognise that Tata Steel ' s recent announcement mean significant uncertainty and upheaval , not just for they but for their family , the people of Port Talbot and other impact site . Port Talbot be build on steel , and the community be proud of its industry and its workforce . after the news from Tata Steel on Friday , the people of Port Talbot be look to the Government to provide some much - need stability and as much certainty as possible . my focus , and that of my Secretary of State , my government and the Secretary of State for Wales , have be to ensure that steelmaking continue at Port Talbot . I want to assure the House that the Government be commit to that , work very closely with Tata Steel — the decision maker — and the Welsh Government to support those affect as much as possible . the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) talk about a plan , but there be no plan . he talk about honesty , but the honest truth be that the motion be fundamentally performative politic and a major disappointment . the risk be lose steelmaking at Port Talbot , or help it to transition to clean , greener steel . Shotton can use import steel from India , but that be not a long - term alternative . import steel from halfway around the world , roll it , take it up to north Wales and then export it to Europe do not have a green footprint . do the Minister accept that ? how long will it be before the arc furnace be actually build ? steel be infinitely recyclable and we have a glut of it in the UK . we use shy of 3 million tonne and we export around 8 million tonne , so we have it within the system and we can recycle it . it have the same chemical compound and it can be use infinitely , so that be the assurance in the supply chain . as hon . member will know , Tata Steel will shortly begin a statutory consultation with employee and trade union as it embark on a fundamental transformation project to replace its two blast furnace with state - of - the - art electric arc furnace . we can not stop the clock . the technology be here and customer be ask for clean , greener steel . be not the truth of the matter — I admire , by the way , the shadow Secretary of State ' s rhetoric — that Port Talbot be a victim of climate militancy and extremism ? net zero zealot do not understand that unless we manufacture in this country , we will extend supply chain and our carbon footprint will grow . be that not the truth of the matter ? I thank my right hon . friend for that contribution . the truth of the matter be that the opposition would go hard and greener , fast . at least we be provide the support that Port Talbot need . the Minister mention the potential consultation . Tata have a legal obligation to consult the recognise trade union in a meaningful way to try to avoid redundancy . will she ensure that those consultation take into consideration the plan that unite the union , the GMB and Community have on the table to try to save the UK steel industry ? absolutely . I speak to the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , who represent Port Talbot , over the weekend , and I reconfirm that I will do everything in my power to hold Tata to account as it go through the transition and to ensure that the consultation be as wide and deep as it can be . be it not the case that Tata have be lose £ 1 million a day at this plant , which be old ? the Select Committee visit the plant and we see that it need replacement . in the absence of discussion with the Government , the plant would have close some month ago . my hon . friend be right . Tata Steel be actually lose £ 1 . 5 million a day . a statement put out by Tata Steel make it very clear that our investment of £ 500 million , which be unprecedented for the steel sector , would enable it to safeguard steel production in the UK in the long term . I know that this be a difficult time , but without our investment we would have risk lose steelmaking at Port Talbot . will the Minister give way ? will the Minister give way ? I will make a bit of progress and then I will take intervention . tata ' s propose plan have the potential to turn around its economic fortune — it be lose £ 1 . 5 million a day — and to deal with emission , but it be also about adopt new technology and meet customer ' need . I know that there be huge concern , because that mean job loss . the concern hon . member have express for the people of Port Talbot be our concern too , and they be share by member right across the House . they have be represent by the Government in our negotiation with the company . as I say , we be hold Tata to account , ensure that the transition be manage properly so that every employee receive the support they deserve . that include £ 100 million of funding for a dedicated transition board , chair by the Secretary of State for Wales and include member of the Welsh Government , to support affected employee and to provide a plan to protect and grow the local economy in the next decade . Tata also announce on Friday that on top of that £ 100 million , it would provide an additional £ 130 - million comprehensive support package for affected employee . rise — I give way to my hon . friend , because he have be so patient . I thank my hon . friend . she have be a friend to those of we on these Benches who have be concern about our local steel job and she have be a champion within Government for our steel industry , so I thank she on behalf of our steelworker for her support . may I urge she to be cautious in listen to the Opposition , who more than halve the number of people who work in the industry last time they be in power ? it be clear that customer will want green steel in the future , but do my hon . friend agree with those of we in Scunthorpe who want to retain a capability of some sort when it come to virgin steel ? the technology have move on . although 90 % of everything that we need can be make from recycled steel , there be a gap , and Scunthorpe be obviously fill that gap at the moment . my hon . Friend also make an important point about the Opposition , who be talk about potential job loss . in 1997 , 70 , 000 people work in the steel industry ; by 2010 , that number have fall to 30 , 600 — a fall of 40 , 000 job or 56 % . the labour leader between 2010 and 2015 do not mention the steel industry once in Parliament . our investment at Port Talbot be the large that have be make for a substantial period , and although the situation be challenge , without that support there be a massive risk that Tata would have leave Port Talbot . rise — I give way to the Chair of the Select Committee . I just want to pin something down , because that be an important intervention . on 8 November the Minister say , in reply to a question from the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) , that she think it be vital to our economic security for these island to retain their virgin steel - make capability . I put that position to the Secretary of State this morning , and she refuse to confirm it . will the Minister tell the House today whether it be her position that this country need the capability to make virgin steel — yes or no ? I do follow the debate in the Select Committee , and I think the Secretary of State say that these decision be commercial but that we will do everything that we can , and that our fundamental priority be to ensure that steelmaking continue in the UK . Tata Steel ' s decision have not be take lightly . this consultation come against the backdrop of a decade of loss , which be ignore by the Labour party when it be in power . indeed , Tata ' s manage director confirm over the weekend that , as I mention early , the Port Talbot plant have be bleed £ 1 . 5 million a day . its decision also come with a grow awareness that the UK steel industry have to modernise , because that be what customer want and the technology now exist . in those circumstance , business be compel to make difficult decision and tough change . in fact , without the opportunity to install a modern electric arc furnace , the future of the plant would have be under serious threat . the Minister and several of her colleague have mention the loss at Port Talbot . let I remind the House that Tata Steel pay dividend amount to £ 1 . 4 billion to shareholder between 2019 and 2023 , and that the group have reserve of £ 1 . 6 billion . would not a sensible solution be to look at what the union be propose , and in particular at Unite the union ' s proposal in its transition plan to retain blast furnace 4 during the transition and build a 3 - megaton arc furnace to allow Port Talbot to take advantage of the dramatic increase in demand that we anticipate for green steel ? I believe that Tata have be share its business plan with the union . there be anxiety about the multi - union plan because it do not deal with the basic economic of continue to make steel at Port Talbot . of course all of we here want to ensure that steelmaking continue in the UK , and this be the model that Tata have put forward to ensure that it do . electric arc furnace will be on line in a few year ' time , and I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we be use steel that be already in the UK system and can be recycle . there be much talk about blast furnace . may I remind the House that a blast furnace simply will not function without coke coal ? West Cumbria Mining ' s proposal for Woodhouse colliery would enable the extraction of the high - quality grade a coke coal , which be absolutely fit for purpose for blast furnace . labour seem to be argue that we should not offshore our carbon emission , but that be exactly why we should be support WCM ' s proposal — so that we can extract that vital material , coke coal , in the clean , green way possible . my hon . friend be a staunch champion of her constituency and she highlight the lack of any sort of sensible plan from the opposition . they do not want stuff come in or go out . they will not even support the transition , and they would go hard and fast as well . close the Port Talbot plant would cause immeasurable damage to the town and would be harmful for the UK as a whole , risk all 8 , 000 job that Tata Steel provide across the UK , not to mention the 12 , 500 job in the steel supply chain . that be why the Government be invest £ 500 million of a total of £ 1 . 25 billion towards secure the future of Port Talbot ' s steel , and an industry that be inextricably link to the community ' s history and identity . that investment be a huge step forward , fortify UK steel production at a time when traditional blast - furnace steelmaking have stop be viable . we have hear loud and clear the call from the union to keep one blast furnace open for several month during the transition . tata hold discussion with the UK Steel committee and its adviser on this very issue . in response to those concern , Tata Steel have revise its proposal and continue to operate Port Talbot ' s hot strip mill throughout the transition period and beyond . however , its position remain that continue blast - furnace production be neither feasible nor affordable , and the risk be that we would lose steelmaking at Port Talbot . an electric arc furnace provide we with great resilience and the ability to absorb shock in the global supply chain by reduce our dependency on raw material import . quite simply , UK steel will be ready for whatever the future hold with state - of - the - art modern equipment . just as crucially , the transformation be pivotal to the Government ' s ambition to position the UK at the forefront of the grow global economy . alongside the UK ' s proposal for the celtic freeport and the land at Port Talbot , which Tata expect to release for transfer or sale follow the transition from blast furnace , the investment would unlock thousand of new job in south Wales and the wide UK economy . I should also remind the House that the Tata Group continue to make significant investment in the UK ' s industry of the future , include through its plan to open a £ 4 billion battery gigafactory in Somerset , create 4 , 000 direct job . that will be a game changer for this country that will position we to thrive in the decade ahead . I very much recognise the case that the Minister make for Tata ' s investment in the UK , but will she just be clear with the House on whether the subsidy package for Port Talbot that we be talk about be in any way link to the subsidy package and the decision to build the gigafactory in Somerset ? that be just another performative politic intervention — [ interruption . ] no , those be completely separate thing . we be talk about the future of the steel sector in the UK and in Port Talbot . the discussion have be go on for year . they be discussion that do not take place when the opposition be in power . they leave it alone and the technology have move on , but what we have be able to do , even though it be difficult , be ensure that steelmaking continue in the UK by provide it with unprecedented level of funding . there be no plan present when the hon . Member speak at the Dispatch Box . we have be able to ensure that steelmaking will continue at Port Talbot . understandably , member might ask why the Government be not work hard to maintain these particular blast furnace but , as the hon . Gentleman say , they be at the end of their life and the cost do not work any more , and nor do they meet the need of customer . I say this again : without the support , there would have be a complete risk of Tata Steel not continue to make steel in the UK . we know that the 20th - century way of produce steel be no long fit for purpose for the UK in the 21st century . the UK ' s blast furnace , such as those at Port Talbot , be reach the end of their operational life , and a transition from blast furnace to electric furnace will also increase our supply chain resilience , make the UK less reliant on import of raw material for steelmaking . my hon . friend be make valid point . we have no domestic iron ore mining or , at the moment , domestic coalmining to feed blast furnace . what we do have , as I observe when I be ship Minister , be massive heap of scrap steel in every single port . this be currently be export to China to come back again as steel . surely the good way to keep the plant open be to use the scrap steel that be currently on our doorstep ? that be the honest conversation that we have to have in this House and with the public . we have ample scrap steel in the UK economy . we use shy of 3 million tonne of scrap steel , and we export 8 million tonne . we could use that scrap steel , which can be recycle infinitely , to provide we with supply chain resilience while reduce our carbon footprint . the UK export more scrap steel , as my right hon . Friend mention , than any other country apart from the United States . we have a plentiful and reliable supply of scrap metal in the UK for electric arc furnace production , and this be make into new steel product for british and other manufacturer . the scrap source here in the UK reduce our need to import steel from China and other country . we be back UK - make steel and , crucially , we be back it in the right way , by invest hundred of million of pound to help the industry to thrive in increasingly challenging global market . we can not stop the clock . the technology and the customer demand be already here . our commitment be clear from our emergency covid support to Celsa Steel and our unprecedented package of support for the steelwork at Port Talbot . we continue to work closely with the industry to secure a sustainable and competitive future for the sector and its worker . our commitment be clear from initiative such as the british industry supercharger , which will reduce electricity cost for the steel industry and other energy - intensive industry , bring they close in line with the charge in other major economy . that be complement by the £ 730 million in energy cost relief that we have give to the steel sector since 2013 . however , investment be only part of the story . the Government have also implement a robust trade remedy framework to protect british business , british job and british good from unfair trading practice and unmanageable surge in import . equally , we have not shy away from advocate for the UK steel industry abroad by resolve market access constraint and work with our partner in the US and the EU to boost access for UK steel export . I be proud that my Department be involve in that work . as well as our effort to protect our steel industry on the international stage , the Government recognise that contract for major public project be a vital source of income for our home - grow steel producer . in the financial year 2021 - 22 , those contract be worth more than £ 600 million , which be one reason why , last April , we publish an update steel procurement policy note that emphasise the importance of early engagement among producer , supplier and buyer , so that british steel production have a fair shot at job - creating , growth - spur project here in the UK . clearly , Tata ' s decision , and any decision like it , have both national and local consequence . as we have see over the year , when deal with huge amount of investment , global supply chain and national infrastructure it be easy to lose sight of the community , family and individual who be impact . I believe the deal be in the long - term good interest of all party . however , I recognise that many of those who be impact in the immediate term will feel differently . that be precisely why we establish a transition board , which be announce in September . it be up and run , ahead of any formal process take place , so that we can be in the good position to support the local people , business and community impact by the transition . I know that member want to have an honest discussion about steelmaking in the UK . without such record - break investment , there may not have be any steelmaking at Port Talbot . the Minister be make an important point about have an honest conversation , part of which be about recognise that almost from the day that Tata buy the Corus asset it have be look for the taxpayer to subsidise the plant to keep it operational . from refurbish and reline the blast furnace to direct subsidy from the Welsh and UK Governments , as well as strongarme we into offload the pension scheme , Tata have need Government help almost from day one to keep the plant operational . in have that honest conversation , will the Minister please keep in mind that the community in Port Talbot will need massive investment to get it through this change ? absolutely , and that be why we have the transition board . we have make money available to ensure that we help local community . the other change be that customer now want clean , greener steel , so there be a market for use electric arc furnace . I assure the House that this Government will be at the side of the people of Port Talbot and other impact site over the month and year ahead , and we will continue to strive to secure a well future for they and for UK steel . rise — Order . I ask everybody to resume their seat . this be a time - limit debate and we do not have much time because of the pressure of other business today . that be why there be a three - minute limit . the Front Benchers will get eight minute each to respond — I can not give any less because it be only fair that there be a proper opposition response and a Government response to that . I ask Members to be mindful when make intervention , please , and to make they short . I call Marion Fellows . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I almost want to repeat the speech that I have give on steel for the past eight and a half year , but I will resist that temptation . the big problem we have be that the Tory Government do not do steel . they may be come up with a plan now , but since I come here in 2015 the all - party group on steel and metal relate industry have try to get movement on an industrial strategy and get steel at the heart of what we do , and it have be ignore . when Tata sell the Dalzell mill in Motherwell to the Scottish Government for £ 1 , two taskforce be set up in 2015 : the UK Government one , which go absolutely nowhere , and the scottish steel taskforce , which save Dalzell . steel be really important — it be a foundation industry — and steelmaker be , as I can testify , a different type of people . the union have do great work in come together and move the industry forward . I agree with the labour motion , but I have some doubt as to what a Labour Government would do , as there have be so many toss and turn , and u - turn , in what Labour have be say . let I return to the issue of Port Talbot . we in Motherwell and Wishaw , and the surround area , know only too well the cost of the closure of a large steel plant — we have huge redundancy . I be talk about the economic and social cost . we know that manufacture job be only the start of the impact of the job loss and that they will be feel right across the Welsh economy . under the multi - union plan , it be hope that Tata Steel could transition Port Talbot towards green steelmaking over a long timeframe . Tata Steel intend to replace exist manufacturing process with an electric arc furnace which , as we know , make steel from scrap and require a much small workforce . I find it hard to believe that Tata will invest £ 750 million to finance the restructuring , back by £ 500 million from the UK Government , yet all these job be go . it be almost as if the Government be pay Tata to make people redundant . a statement by the GMB and Community , which draft the multi - union plan , note : " it be an absolute disgrace that Tata Steel , and the UK Government , appear intent on pursue the cheap instead of the good plan for our industry , our steelworker and our country . " I agree on that . we in the Scottish National party recognise the need to reduce our emission and reach net zero target , but we be equally clear that it be vital that the individual and community most impact by the green transition must be at the heart of the decision make by government . a just transition must have at its heart fairness and transparency for the worker affect . in the case of Tata Steel , it be clear that the impact of the closure on the worker have be an afterthought . Diane Coyle , the economist , say : " the UK ' s industrial policy … have be characterise by frequent policy reversal and announcement , drive by political cycle " , and there be an endure inability to effectively co - ordinate the " multiple … public body , department and level of government … responsible for delivery . " those of we with steel industry in our constituency can attest to that . there have not be a proper industrial plan in all the time that I have be here . last week , our First Minister highlight how independence offer an alternative to a lack of direction and ambition , with an industrial policy . that be what an independent Scotland will have : an industrial policy , which have be lack here since I first come to this place in 2015 . the fact that the replacement for the blast furnace in Port Talbot will not be operational until 2027 at the early raise concern from both a national security and an environmental perspective . it be completely meaningless , as we have already hear , to close the furnace in Port Talbot in an attempt to lower emission if we be then go to be reliant on equally energy - intensive steel import from other country until at least 2027 , and if the UK Government do not take measure to ensure that the UK be on par with the EU when it come to invest in green technology . as have already be say , we will be import from India and China , two of the most polluting country on the planet . the UK Government will also be the only G20 country that do not produce its own virgin steel . that clearly pose concern from a national security perspective . unite the union recently sum up this ludicrous situation , note : " the government need to invest in british industry in order to defend worker and community as well as our industrial base and our national security . instead , they be give Tata hundred of million of pound to fund their plan to cut job , cut capacity and give more business to their plant in other country , like India and the Netherlands . how be that acceptable ? " the shocking decision make by Tata in Port Talbot may not have a direct consequence on Dalzell steelwork in Motherwell , in my constituency . however , the decision be make at British Steel in Scunthorpe and Port Talbot put the future of steelmaking in the UK at risk . I be happy to pledge my support to the alternative plan put to Tata with the backing of industry expert Syndex and both Community and GMB trade union . the market need for UK - produce steel have increase as project within the UK be ask for UK content . Dalzell steelwork market itself as steel roll in the UK , produce from steel make in Scunthorpe . if British Steel go the same way as Tata , we will lose the only remain UK steelmaker that can supply steel suitable for plate , and that be just madness . when Tata close Dalzell and Clydebridge , the UK lose its ability to roll plate for submarine and other industrial purpose , such as wind turbine . this Tory Government do not understand manufacturing . the all - party parliamentary group for steel and metal - relate industry have be push for year and year . I notice the Minister mention the reduction in electricity cost , but how long do it take this government to come forward with that plan ? we have be tell they for year that we could not be competitive and that energy cost would have an effect on british steelmaking . many people be still wait to speak . in Motherwell and Wishaw our heart go out to folk in steel who be lose their job . we know how it feel and we know how long it take to build a community back up again . we in the SNP support the motion . the news from Tata Steel be extremely concerning , and it leave Scunthorpe as the last place in the whole of the UK that be able to make virgin steel . it be incredible to I that I be here again make the argument to retain the UK ' s virgin steelmaking capability . there have be challenge from across the House on those view , so I will go into detail about some of those challenge . some people seem to think that we can make whatever we need in an electric arc furnace . it be true that the range of product be increase all the time and will continue to expand , but those product be dependent on scrap and all scrap be not equal . we may have the correct tonnage of scrap in this country , but no one have yet convince I that it be the correct quality of scrap . that be a really important point that we need to recognise . People have say that we do not export iron ore from this country . that be incorrect ; we do export iron ore as a country . People say that we do not have coke coal capability in this country . that be incorrect , because there be a perfectly good metallurgical coal mine in Cumbria wait to be use . some will make the argument about reduce the carbon footprint of steel product , use a purely electric arc model , to which I would again point out that many product melt in an electric arc furnace require an input of virgin steel in the mix . People on the work have tell I — I listen to they because they know their stuff — that some of those product that they want to make in an EAF will need 30 % virgin steel in the mix . be it not then clear that , give what my hon . friend have say , it be vital that the Government negotiation with British Steel retain that virgin steel capability ? my hon . friend , who know a great deal about steel , be absolutely right . we need to remember that if we be not make that virgin steel here in the UK , it will come from someone else ' s blast furnace , probably from the other side of the world . we will have no control over the emission or how that steel be produce . we will have no control over the welfare of the people who make it . the steel will then be put on a ship — a ship with a diesel engine , not a sail — and drive over here to be throw into our electric arc furnace to make that mix . my hon . friend be absolutely right . the more that we make in this country — the more food we grow ; the more product we produce — the more essential our manufacturing base become , and not just for our economic resilience and wellbeing , but for our move to this wonderful carbon - neutral future , which be so beloved of so many . my right hon . friend be correct . put simply , unless we be go to stop use virgin steel in this country , we should have the ability to make it ourselves , so that we can take responsibility for those emission and for the production method , and for the work condition of those who make the product . last week , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Defence remark that we be enter a pre - war world . a strong — or at least " in existence " — steelmaking industry be a core part of our nation ' s defence capability . we may choose to buy the steel that we need for our defence from other country — whether or not I agree with that — but resilience be not only about what we choose to do in future ; it be also about what we may need to do , or what we may need to have the capability to do should the need arise . on 18 September , I ask my hon . friend the Minister for Industry and Economic Security whether she agree that " for national security reason alone , we must ensure that we retain the capability to make virgin steel in this country " . as I say in the urgent question that I later secure , that be confirm to I by the Secretary of State the very same day , and I take contemporaneous note of that conversation . on 18 September , my hon . friend the Minister comment that I be correct on the importance of virgin steel , state : " obviously , we need a place for virgin steel , and that be in her constituency . " — [ Official Report , 18 September 2023 ; Vol . 737 , c . 1125 . ] I have no problem with building electric arc furnace — it be a good idea — but I passionately believe that the UK should retain , at least in the medium term , some blast furnace capability alongside that . after the sad news in Port Talbot , that have to be in Scunthorpe . on 6 October , British Steel set out its plan , which it say be subject to appropriate support from the Government . they be the content of the negotiation that my hon . friend be work so hard on . they talk about instal two electric arc furnace , one in Scunthorpe and one in Teesside , and they propose maintain current operation until a transition to electric arc steelmaking . I want to be crystal clear : I expect the company to keep to its word on this . if we be to give British Steel hundred of million of pound of public money , we need to ensure that it retain those blast furnace until the transition . in short , that must be write into the deal . I do not want the sad event happen in Port Talbot to happen to my people in Scunthorpe . I do not want to see blast furnace switch off early and steel be bring in from abroad and roll in our mill . I want those blast furnace to be on for as long as possible , maintain job and keep option open , so that we can explore alternative technology , just as other country be do . the Port Talbot steelwork be the beat heart of our community . generation after generation have work in that steelwork . Port Talbot be the steelwork , and the steelwork be Port Talbot . every time I go into that steelwork , though , I do not see something to be sentimental about ; I see a hotbed of innovation . I see a workforce who be deeply committed to change and ready to embrace change . this be not about some kind of request for charity or hand - out ; this be about ask for a level playing field . this be about say that we make the good steel that money can buy . but for 14 long year we have be compete with one hand tie behind our back . for 14 year we have be force to pay twice as much for our energy as our french and german competitor . for 14 year we have see Government contract go to foreign steel company . for 14 year we have see our government completely fail to support our steel industry in anything like the way that our competitor be do . let I be absolutely clear : when we look at the deal that be now on the table , we see that it do not work for job , it do not work for decarbonisation , and it do not work for our national security . on job , 2 , 800 job be set to go , with £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money to pay for that privilege . on decarbonisation , the deal be base on import million of ton of steel from India , where steel production be 30 % to 40 % more carbon intensive . I be not sure if anyone have notice , but India be 5 , 000 mile away , so the carbon footprint will be huge . we be literally export job from Wales to India , and import carbon from India to Wales . I urge Tata Steel to look again at the multi - union plan and to take the bridge , not the cliff edge . its deal will send our workforce — our proud community — over that cliff edge . that be not something we can accept . we have to recognise that the trade union have put together a compelling plan ; a plan that would keep one of the blast furnace go while the transition to an electric arc furnace take place . that be the right way — the balanced and sustainable way — of do this . our country need its steel . let ' s value it . let ' s stand up and fight for it . there be no question but that this be an extremely worrying time for family in Port Talbot and for the community at large . I know the community extremely well , and my father be a welder at the basic oxygen steelmaking plant in the steelwork for more than 30 year . Port Talbot be a community where everyone know someone who be relate to the steelwork in some way . the scale of the impact that this will have on the community should not be underestimate . it be not just the job themselves . there will be the contractual job and the associate role with those contractual job , so there be a significant multipli that follow on . of course , this be not the first time that we have be in this position or that the steelwork have be under threat . I can remember ten of thousand of people work there when I be grow up in the 1970 . the reality be that in 2016 we be in a similar position , when Tata plan to close the plant but , in opposition to what the Government be now claim , the UK Government proactively work with Tata to encourage a sale and , in the interim , the price of steel rise , which have give we a much long lifespan for the site . I want to point out that the commitment that Tata have show be significant and need to be recognise , because it have lose million of pound over time . in the close of 2018 , as Secretary of State for Wales , I go to Mumbai to meet the chairman and chief executive of Tata , and to express my concern that the price of steel at that time be fall , and I want to know what their plan be . that be the proactivity with which the Government maintain an interest over time in seek to support the industry and to support steel . I take my right hon . friend ' s point about commerciality , but the truth be that we can and should protect those core industry that be at the heart of our manufacturing capacity . if we open ourselves up to cheap foreign import with huge environmental cost , we be bind to end in a situation of the kind he describe . I thank he and , in particular , my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) for their work , but it be for the Government to prioritise british job and british manufacturer . my right hon . friend make an extremely important point , and I strongly agree with he . that be the proactivity that the Government have seek to pursue . I should correct the record , by the way : it be in November 2019 that I go to Mumbai to meet Tata . however , the reality be that every time a Member of this House , on either side of the Chamber , have call for we to go far and fast and to be ahead of the curve in the green transition , another nail have be put in the coffin of heavy industry such as Tata in Port Talbot . that be the reality of the position . when we have pass climate change legislation here we have hear many Opposition Members — those who be now seek to defend the job — say that the Government be not do enough on our green transition . the £ 500 million be a significant sum , and we should not play it down . we must also remember that this be a devolved responsibility . pre - devolution , that money would have be come out of the Welsh block . we all know that since 2016 the Welsh Government have do nothing to reinvest in the plant after we manage to save it from closure , so I find it churlish when the Minister in the Welsh Government say he need hundred of million . those be the people call for further devolution and further responsibility , but ultimately there be no accountability for the decision , because investment in industry be a devolved function . however , thank to the Union and thank to the United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 , the UK Government can invest in the steelwork in Wales . that be the same Act that the opposition vote against and to which the Welsh Assembly would not even approve a legislative consent motion in order for it to pass . in the limited time I have , I also want to point out this be a two - blast furnace site ; have one blast furnace operational make it even more inefficient , and it will lose more money . my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) highlight a really important point about an arc furnace , and I have not hear the automotive sector say that it be content with that . finally , I hope we will have a development corporation in order to save the economy in the area . I add my voice to the chorus ask the Minister to rethink the strategy and this deal comprehensively . at the heart of this debate be a simple truth : what the Government have offer we be a half - measure , and it be a half - measure that now threaten job security , economic security and climate security . frankly , that be a price not worth pay . the threat to job security have be well lay out by hon . member this afternoon . it be not just 2 , 800 job at the steelwork itself ; three time as many job will be lose because of the economic shock to the community . here we have a situation where £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money be be fork out and up to 12 , 000 people be go to be throw out of work . the second point , which we must not let the Minister elude this afternoon , be that there have clearly be a change of Government policy on whether this country need its own sovereign capability to make virgin steel . the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) speak brilliantly and eloquently about precisely why we need to keep that capability in this country , and she be right to say that , in response to her urgent question in November last year , the Minister give the House the very clear impression that she would defend a policy of his Majesty ' s Government that we will retain sovereign capability for virgin steelmaking in this country . however , when I ask the Secretary of State not once , but three time today whether it be the policy of his Majesty ' s Government to keep that capability in this country , she decline to answer on all three occasion . she say that that be not a decision for Government to make , but a decision for industry — and , in her word , we might as well be try to encourage people to keep typewriter . I do not think that be an appropriate response to a fundamental question of economic security . the third point , of course , be on climate security , as my hon . friend the Member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) lay out very clearly . Tata have be very clear that it will honour its contract by import steel from India . we know that that be 40 % more carbon - intensive than steel make in this country and that other import may now come in from China , where about 70 % of the power be from dirty coal . that be bad for job security , it be bad for economic security and it be bad for climate security . at the very least , we could have expect the Government to lay out a well plan that deal with question such as how we will guarantee the scrap supply , give that we now export 77 % of our scrap and do not have a strategy to ensure that it be keep here in the event that the future be indeed in electric arc furnace . we have not have a strategy on how to keep direct reduce iron technology here , and Tata be propose to build that capability in Holland . so £ 500 million go out the door , job security go down , technology go to Holland and dirty steel come in . that be a bad deal and it need rethink . that be a brilliant contribution from the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . this afternoon , steelworker from Port Talbot , Llanwern and beyond be up in the Public Gallery . they have come here today to ask the Government to step up after last week ' s announcement from Tata . on their behalf , we implore minister to pursue , before it be too late , all avenue to secure a long , fair transition that support our steel industry and job . we need a meaningful consultation with the trade union and full consideration of the alternative option that they have propose , because we want the good for steel , not the cheap , which be what we have before we . my hon . friend be a great champion for steelmaking in Llanwern . do she agree that the negative impact of the Government ' s plan for steel in south Wales will be massive ? will electric arc furnace be suitable for the Zodiac line at Llanwern ? indeed , last week ' s announcement be devastating for Port Talbot , for the people from Newport who travel to work there , and for community across wide south Wales . over 18 month , 2 , 800 Port Talbot worker have be affect , and Tata expect that 300 further role could be impact at Llanwern in Newport East in around three year ' time . as my hon . Friend say , that would affect the Zodiac line , which produce world - class automotive steel and be the good processing line in the world when it be build — it remain one of the good . as the union have highlight , Zodiac will , in the short term , be reliant on import . big question remain about the quality of steel produce in electric arc furnace . these be high - value product , and it be a precarious position for Llanwern to be in . as have often be repeat in recent day , no matter how the Government dress it up , they be give Tata £ 500 million to make 3 , 000 people redundant . in so do , they be end our ability to make virgin steel — the only major economy in the world to do so — and that be shameful . it leave we reliant on import at a time when demand for steel , which we will desperately need for our green infrastructure , be only grow , and at great cost . the import steel will come over here , as the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) say , on diesel - fuel vessel , ship thousand of mile from country with low environmental standard . it do not have to be so . as other have say , an alternative plan have be propose by the steel union . we pay tribute to they for the fight that they put up on behalf of their member . the Syndex plan be credible and base on a phase transition over a decade . official at Tata have acknowledge to union that the union plan be serious and deliverable , but would not commit to the extra funding . the Government must step up , as other country be do — in fact , there can not be a develop country in the world that approach the matter in a bad way than this one . labour will step up . a general election can not come soon enough for our steel industry . we have long pledge a £ 3 billion fund to decarbonise UK steel production . this government ' s plan be not a serious one ; it be yet another stick plaster from a Government without a proper industrial strategy . we have have 12 steel Ministers since 2010 , and six in the last four year alone . let I address the attack make this week by the Secretary of State for Wales at a time of awful news . this deal be do without Welsh Government or trade union support . Welsh Ministers have repeatedly contact UK Business Ministers . the First Minister try to get a phone call with the Prime Minister on Friday but be not allow one . the Welsh Government have use all the lever that they have . we must not allow the UK Government to make irreversible decision . not only be steel part of Wales ' s history , but it be vital to our green future . I declare an interest as a member of Unite , and totally support the union ' s plan to move forward . I congratulate my party ' s Front - Bench team on secure the debate . this debate should not be about political side — it should not be about member take the Government ' s side against the opposition because we secure the debate . this debate be about national security , national industry and national prosperity . I congratulate the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) , who stand aside from the politic and look at the real issue . there be also issue here about the blast furnace technology . I be one of the very few member in this place who serve as an apprentice and work in a foundry , so I understand the issue we be talk about . as have already be say by the hon . member for Scunthorpe and other Members , virgin steel be hugely important , because we want to increase our defence manufacturing . we have the AUKUS deal , under which we want to build submarine in conjunction with Australia and the United States . that will have a huge impact , and if we do not have blast furnace , we will not have the capability to do that . when we recycle steel that have already be produce — this have be say before , but I will repeat it — it contain significant impurity because of the use it have have , and can not be turn into virgin steel . that be what we have to come back to when we talk about how we produce that steel . if we do not do so , we will not be able to meet our defence , engineering and manufacturing commitment , which be not what the United Kingdom want . that manufacturing be an industry that we want to take forward . as far as I be concern , this be a grubby deal by Tata . all it want to do be get hold of our steel industry , hijack it , get rid of our worker from the line , and bring steel back from that company ' s highly pollute indian plant . this have not be say today , but as somebody who have work in the industry , I want to be clear that our steel industry and our steelworker do not think that our people should be sacrifice at the altar of the so - call green technology that Tata be push — I think the intention be something quite different . we need to realise as a nation that this be our security , this be our prosperity , and this be what we need to do . rise — order . if people could shave about half a minute off their speech , we will be able to get everybody in . otherwise , we will not . it be both tragic and shocking that we be face with the potential closure of the last blast furnace in Port Talbot before greener technology for produce primary steel be develop and operational , and even before the propose electric arc furnace be up and run . this Conservative UK Government must bear their share of the responsibility for this appalling situation . the Government boast about the grubby little deal they make with Tata in September , spend half a billion pound to lose 2 , 800 job in Port Talbot and leave the UK as the only country in the G20 without its own steelmaking capacity , at the mercy of world market with the risk of price hiking , not to mention the national security risk of lose our own primary steelmaking capacity . instead , the Government should have be negotiate a proper deal such as the multi - union plan to ensure a just transition . they should have be protect job , keep the blast furnace go until other production mean be fully up and run , and recognise that the electric arc furnace can only be part of the solution . yes , let we recycle more steel in the UK , but we must recognise that that be not suitable for all our need . we should also be develop green technology such as hydrogen and direct reduction of iron to do the primary production of steel , as Labour have propose , commit £ 3 billion — not half a billion — to work with the industry to make that just transition a reality . the tin plate industry be synonymous with Llanelli . it be a central part of our industrial history , and today ' s Tata plant in Trostre make a range of different material that go on to be use in thing like food can and aerosol . currently , we receive our steel from Port Talbot , just some 20 mile down the railway track , which make good economic and environmental sense . Tata tell we that when it close the blast furnace , we will be import steel . that import steel will be make in blast furnace abroad , so there will be no saving in carbon emission — quite the opposite . process abroad will be much dirty , and then of course there be the cost and emission from transport the steel to Trostre . the challenge will be source an appropriate quality of steel to satisfy Trostre ' s need , and as Trostre make a number of product and serve a number of different customer , that mean steel of the right quality to satisfy all those need . we will be very much more vulnerable to logistical difficulty and price fluctuation if we have to import steel . if there be a shortage of supply , foreign producer may well prioritise their home customer . as for the recycled steel produce in the electric arc furnace , when it eventually come into production , there be still a lot of work to be do to assess its suitability for the different product that Trostre produce and its acceptability to our customer . it may be that some product can use electric arc furnace steel , but that will depend on the quality of the feedstock that be put in , and there be a strong case for have two small electric arc furnace to provide those different quality . then there be the challenge of source the feedstock , and not just source it , but sort it and trialle it . all this take time . in the meantime , we need Tata to keep the blast furnace go . the electric arc furnace should be only part of the solution , the other part be the development of green primary steel - making . I pay tribute to the trade union , and we now need Tata to work with the trade union — order . could member shave time off their speech , otherwise not everybody will get in ? Mr Deputy Speaker , you may be wonder why on earth the Member for the northernmost mainland constituency in the UK , very far away from Port Talbot , be take part in this debate . however , a bit like the hon . member for Birmingham , Perry Barr ( Mr Mahmood ) , I get my finger dirty work in an oil fabrication yard in a place call Nigg . some of the mighty structure in the North sea be build there , and I be proud to have work there when I do . those structure , which be still work today , be make out of the good of british steel . the steel do not come from anywhere else ; they be make out of british steel . I thank the Government for the decision to allow the Cromarty firth in my constituency to become a green freeport . one of the great dream we have where I live be that with the skill we still have locally — the welder , the fabricator and the rigger who be still of work age — we could start to fabricate float offshore wind structure in the yard once again . that be our dream . at its height when I work in that yard , 5 , 000 people work in it , and we dream of see the flash of the welder ' s torch and hear the clang of steel once again . however , to do that we be go to need the good of british steel — not rubbishy stuff , but the good — that will stand up to the mighty storm of the North sea . what I be say be that , yes , I hear the impassioned plea about make virgin steel in the UK , but I be talk about far down the line where we can use it and where we want to use it desperately badly . I be go to keep this short , but we have fall a long way back . one of the shattering statistic be that , while we be still in the EU — towards our last day there — the UK have fall to be the eighth in the whole of the EU in steel production . we be actually behind Belgium . this be the country of Isambard Kingdom Brunel , the country that build the Forth rail bridge , the country of steel , and it be steel that make this country great , so I support the motion with great passion . believe you I , it have my full support . thank you very much . steel be a strategically important industry for Wales and for the entire UK . it be vital in support the green transition , from energy generation to electric car . this be not just about a fair transition , but about have the security of supply that be essential to any transition at all . as we enter the new era of great british Nuclear and small modular reactor in place such as Trawsfynydd , there be no sense and no rational strategy in the Government commit their successor to buy thousand of tonne of new steel — and from where ? from China ? we do not even know what assessment the Government have make . do the UK need security of supply from be able to produce virgin steel in future — yes or no — and what be the Government ' s role in that respect ? Plaid Cymru have call for action to ensure that ownership of the Welsh steel industry be return to Welsh public control . this would involve nationalisation , and then recapitalisation through green bond , with a view to mutualise and create a Welsh steel co - operative . we could save the bank in 2008 ; why can we not save steel now ? look at Germany , where the Government spend € 2 . 6 billion in state aid to steel producer for decarbonisation project only last year . that be the scale of intervention that we need . we must also learn from country such as Spain , Canada and Sweden , which be already invest in their capacity to produce primary steel through green hydrogen furnace . there be lesson here for Wales . there be suggestion that a closed - loop cycle could be create in south Wales , whereby float offshore wind be not only use for electricity but to make green hydrogen for local heavy industry , include steel production . if we have well control over the Crown Estate , we could tie these procurement requirement into those contract . we could put local procurement as a priority . where be the vision ? where be the vision in say that only central Government can manage this , give the current state of the nation in the United Kingdom ? these be the sort of exciting opportunity we should be grasp now in Wales , yet we be be let down once again by a Westminster Government who be intent on strip Welsh asset while leave the Senedd to bear the cost of community and individual life throw on the scrap heap . yes , the Labour party be also promise a transition fund for the steel industry , but how can we believe it will ever be implement , when it continue to scale back on its £ 28 billion green investment pledge ? solution from Westminster be a dead end ; only with control over our own resource , such as through a Welsh steel co - operative and the devolution of the Crown Estate , can Wales embark on its own journey towards a greener and fair future . to close , Mr Speaker — I be afraid that time be up ; I do apologise . first , I declare my interest as a member of the GMB and the all - party parliamentary group for steel and metal relate industry . I have to say how utterly frustrating and disappointing it be to be here as a former shadow steel Minister , hear the same argument that all of we on this side and some other hon . member across the House have be make on these issue for decade that the Government simply have not listen to . they have be asleep at the wheel : there have be no industrial strategy and no vision for the future of steel , and there have be a revolving door of Ministers in and out of Government . I be deeply frustrated that , after all those argument we have make in good faith , we have come to this point . this be totally the wrong approach for the proud worker I be privileged to meet outside Parliament today and who be with we in the Gallery . it be totally the wrong approach for the economy of south Wales . it be not just about the worker and the job directly at Tata ; it be also about the related industry : the electrician , engineer , rail worker , haulier and all who work in that interconnect economy that be so crucial to the backbone of south Wales — the caf é s , too — and all the family who rely on those highly pay job . worker who be willing to embrace change , as my hon . friend the Member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) say , now face be let down by this Government . it be totally the wrong approach . when it come to carbon emission , we have hear how it will lead to import of low quality steel and high carbon steel — steel that be come in with high carbon emission on transport , as have be set out so clearly in the debate . and it be totally the wrong approach for our national security . the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) be absolutely right to raise concern about our defence industry and to talk about the need for speciality steel . I know what an electric arc furnace can produce — I have one in my constituency and it be run by an excellent company that do excellent work provide steel to our critical national infrastructure — but it can not produce all the steel we need for our economy . at a time of geopolitical risk , at a time when our supply chain be under threat , at a time when we want to invest in new green technology and at a time when we face threat from major country around the world , to be abandon our capacity , our national security and our foundational industry be utterly irresponsible . I praise my hon . friend the Member for Aberavon for what he have be do to stand up for his worker and my hon . friend the Members for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) and for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) and other . I want to praise my constituency colleague the Welsh Minister for the Economy , Vaughan Gething , and indeed the First Minister . I have to say this to the Ministers on the Treasury Bench : I like they personally , but it be simply not good enough for the Prime Minister not to pick up the phone to the First Minister . he pick up the phone to I about issue when he be Chancellor , so why be he not do that now and call the First Minister ? where be the Secretary of State ? she have not be speak to the Welsh Economy Minister , Vaughan Gething . she need to put aside partisan difference , get around the table and work with we to find solution on this , and she be not do it . and where be the Chancellor ? fundamentally he have be involve in this deal , which appear to be deliver very little ; where be he on this ? they need to get with the programme . we need to look at the multi - union lead plan . we need to listen to what our union be say , listen to what the worker be say , not make irreversible decision , and make sure there be a future for the steel industry in this country . first , I express my concern on behalf of the 2 , 800 worker at Port Talbot who will lose their job and the many other in that community and the surround area who will feel the knock - on ramification of this decision . it be a situation that all too many community in Scotland , and indeed across the UK , remember from the toxic legacy of the Government ' s industrial policy in the 1980 , when the rapid enforce decline of heavy industry across too many place be progress with . that toxic legacy give we a prime example , if we need one , of how not to go about an industrial transition . with the rejection of the multi - union plan , it seem that the present - day Government have learn no lesson in that regard . make no mistake : this decision be economically , environmentally and strategically inept . it mean that the UK take a step close to be the only state in the G20 without the capacity to make its own virgin steel . that be a risk to security , but it also mean that the UK be effectively outsource the emission associate with the production of that virgin steel , while unforgivably offshore the job . that be not a just transition ; it be just plain daft . the green transition that we know we need to make should be a main driver of economic growth in the decade ahead , and we can see how government in the EU and in the US who get to grip with that challenge can drive forward that investment . in contrast , in Port Talbot we see a £ 500 - million UK Government investment lead to the direct loss of 2 , 800 job . that be a transition of a sort , I suppose , but it do not come anywhere close to meet the need of the community there , the economy or the planet . finally , I say as gently as I can to those on the Labour Front Bench that if decarbonisation be not to mean deindustrialisation , they should please have a word with their leader and make sure that he do not water down any further his £ 28 billion pledge , because community that depend on our get the transition right , such as mine , deserve and expect no less . to resume her seat no later than 6 . 44 pm , I call Ruth Jones . it be good to participate in this debate , but it be not good to recognise the thousand of job loss come down the track and the devastating effect that will have on our local community . we can not underestimate the anxiety and anguish cause by this callous announcement by Tata , and the lack of thought by the UK Government in just go along with it . it be not just about the direct job loss , but about the thousand of other worker and family involve in the supply chain of the steelwork in south Wales . this announcement be a massive blow for everyone across Wales and the UK . it be all the more frustrating , because we know that this decision to shed 2 , 800 job be completely avoidable . we know that the steel industry have to decarbonise , and we must achieve our goal of net zero , but we do not have to do it overnight . we can transition to green steel . Decarbonisation can not mean deindustrialisation . the route to green steel involve a mix of all the available technology , not just electric arc furnace . we will move towards our goal of net zero , but in partnership and co - operation , leave no one behind . that be the fair way ; that be Labour ' s way . in contrast , this Government be so deaf to the problem that the Prime Minister would not even answer the phone to the First Minister Mark Drakeford when he ring to discuss the propose job loss . that tell we volume about how ready to listen this Government be . as we be talk about Government response , will the Minister meet the union ? I believe that the last meeting be way back in May 2023 . it would be good to have a commitment from the Minister . there be also a knock - on effect , because while we be mainly concerned with job in Port Talbot today , there will be an impact on its sister site Llanwern in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) . many people in Newport West work in Llanwern , and let we not forget the other steel company , such as Island Steel and Sims Metal recycling , which be also suffer because of a lack of coherence and strategy from the current UK Government . it be unbelievable . like all the speaker on the Labour Benches , I pay tribute to the union representative here in the Public Gallery today , and I thank they for their diligent and proactive work . I call on the UK Government to engage with they and work with Tata to ensure that the UK retain its steel production capability and that our automotive , defence , manufacturing , construction and renewable industry can procure and use our own british steel . to start the wind - up , I call the Opposition spokesperson . this have be a powerful debate , reflect the huge strength of feeling in this place , but also the huge knowledge and ambition for our steel industry . I be disappoint that the Minister come to this place and say that this debate be performative , less than a week after Tata Steel announce nearly 3 , 000 job loss . I think we all would have expect well from she . like many other , this afternoon I meet steelworker and union official not only from Port Talbot , but from all the other steel sector and steel site across the country . they have come because they know what this announcement mean for they and their future . these action will have consequence beyond last week ' s announcement . the steelworker here today , like many of we , be baffle by the Government ' s approach . they know that steel be a foundation industry . they know how crucial it be to our economy . they know that the world be uncertain — for goodness ' sake , the Prime Minister be here only this afternoon talk about strike on Houthis in Yemen — and that have our own supply of primary steel be crucial to our security . our genuine question be : why be the Government so content to be spend half a billion pound on a scheme that lead to thousand of job loss ? on job , my hon . friend will have see that every steel industry across the G20 and around the planet be go through massive change , but the only place where there be a threat of thousand of job loss be the United Kingdom . why do she think that might be ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . he make a brilliant speech early and have be a great defender of his constituent . the lack of any plan from the Government over the last 14 year be at the heart of the problem we see today . as the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , say in his opening speech , we also risk something much wider : that net zero become a zero - sum game for work people and we lose the public consent that we need for the transition . there be no get away from the fact . the Government have push a plan that use hundred of million of pound to make thousand of people redundant . if Scunthorpe end up go the same way — the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) make a powerful speech to the contrary — we will be unable to produce primary steel in the UK . in the Port Talbot plan , the two blast furnace will shut this year , with a cliff edge for job . for at least three year , steel will be completely import from India and the Netherlands to feed Trostre and Llanwern in south Wales , but there be no guarantee that once the electric arc furnace be build , those job will stay . we know that there be huge question about scrap steel and whether it will produce the steel we need . many member , include the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , ask question to which the Government have so far provide no answer . I do not have an opportunity to develop this in my speech , but would the hon . Lady and the Labour party support a development corporation to diversify the economy so that it be not so dependent on one industry and one company ? the Labour party would support an industrial strategy , which would have myriad plan that would look exactly at some of these issue . our national wealth fund would fund some of the really important future industry that we need , crowd - in private sector investment at a much great scale and , hopefully , lead to the manufacturing industry grow and not the manage decline we have see under this Government . my hon . friend the Member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) say that the plan be export job and import carbon , and he be exactly right . my dad be from Llanelli , once the tinplate capital of the world . my grandad work at the tinplate factory that be then call Richard Thomas and Baldwins , and his brother work at the Salter saucepan work . they would have stand in Stradey Park singing " Sosban Fach , " I be sure burst with pride . Britain ' s steel industry have see we through momentous period in Britain ' s national story — the white heat of the industrial revolution ; the plane , ship and tank that see we through the second world war ; and the building dot our skyline across this modern Britain — but if we get nostalgic for the past , we do not look to the future . the world be change , it be less safe and less secure , and steel be change . new technology be transform how we make and use steel , and it will be as crucial to our future as it have be to our past . we can not make solar power without steel . we can not make electric vehicle without steel . we can not make wind turbine without steel . we will not reach the Paris climate agreement target without steel . steel be use for 3d printing and robotic automation , and everything from the tool that our doctor use to save our life to the rocket ship that reach into space need steel . our pen be make of steel , and Big Ben tick because of steel . anyone who do not know that it be magic should read Ed Conway ' s book " Material World " . steel make the machine , the tool and the factory that make everything possible . it will forge our future , not just our past . the debate be not about nostalgia : it be about look head . Labour member know that steel can have a bright future in Britain . the Government ' s last - minute chaotic deal be a masterclass in how not to run the transition . what they offer be never a serious plan for the long - term of our steel industry ; it be yet another stick plaster from a Government lurch from crisis to crisis , unable or unwilling to take a long - term view . there be other way forward . labour have a cast - iron commitment to support our steel industry . we have earmark up to £ 3 billion for investment in green steel alongside industry , work with steel community to ensure that the transition come with job . there be other way forward that can help we , not least hydrogen . while the Conservatives scramble around for last - minute deal , Labour will make long - term investment . that be the central difference in our approach . we must think about manufacture differently . I have lose track of the number of time business have say to I , " we would invest in renewable , but the Government make it too hard . " our manufacturer say , " we want to decarbonise , but we be live hand to mouth because our energy bill be so much high than in other country , and Government win ' t help we . " this steel debacle speak to a much wide issue . we do not just need a steel industry : we need glass , ceramics , cement , compost , critical mineral , battery , composite and cheap energy . we need supply chain that work , an upgrade national grid , plan reform and a job plan to create job across every part of this country — a transition from the old to a much cheap renewable future . in short , we need an industrial strategy . we need a Government who believe in work in partnership with industry , not just tell they to " f off " , and we need a plan that look to the future of our own country and do not just rely on cheap import from China . we be ask the Government to think again , to look at the multi - union plan again and to think about how to defend primary steel capacity in our country . we know that steelworker be watch this debate , and they must feel wretched . I ask Government Members in all sincerity : be they concerned about our defence capability if we lose the capacity to make primary steel ? do they really think the Government ' s plan be money well spend ? should decarbonisation really be about cut job ? be manufacture really a victorian pursuit well leave to the Chinese , as a former Tory Prime Minister be report as say ? or , as the great country that we be , can we harness the skill and talent of our people and create a vibrant manufacturing sector here in the UK ? tonight , can we send a message to the steelworker here that we want to protect the future of british steelmaking , and that we will not sit by and let manage decline be the hallmark of this great british industry ? I commend the motion to the House . I thank the hon . Lady and all those who take part in the debate . I say very clearly that I completely understand how devastating the news be . I understand the devastation that people will feel in Port Talbot — the whole community , but especially those people who face the loss of their job and those in the wide supply chain . there will be a wide impact — no one be deny that or run away from that . let I set out the situation that the Government find themselves in . throughout the debate , member have try to suggest that this be a Government decision . it be not a Government decision . it be not the Government who decide to close — rise — rise — let I make a little progress , as I only have about six minute and I think member will want I to put thing on the record . the hon . member for Birmingham , Perry Barr ( Mr Mahmood ) wave around the Syndex plan ; as a member of Unite , surely he will be aware that it reject that plan . let I go back to the situation we find ourselves in . it be not a decision of the Government to shut down the blast furnace , but one take by Tata in the light of the loss it be make . I thank the Secretary of State for give way . yes , it be a Tata decision , but £ 500 million of british taxpayer ' money be go into it . will he set out what red line the Government put down around that £ 500 million ? be there any red line around job ? it come down to this : the Government have to find a solution that be acceptable to Tata and that would save the maximum number of job . the Government be not pay £ 500 million to throw 3 , 000 people out of work — [ interruption . ] no , the Government be pay £ 500 million to save 5 , 000 job , because they will be save , as well as around 12 , 500 job in the supply chain . rise — I will give way to the hon . gentleman in a moment , because he know more about this than many who have speak . the reality be that Tata tell we that it be look to pull out completely from the United Kingdom . if the loss of 3 , 000 job be devastating — it certainly be — how much more devastating would 5 , 000 be , and 12 , 500 job in the supply chain ? it be a simple choice for the Government — not a good one — between see 3 , 000 people lose their job or around 17 , 500 people lose their job , and possibly even more . that be why the Government commit to pay £ 500 million towards an arc furnace . let I make one other thing clear : the Government will not pay a penny to Tata until that arc furnace be build [ Official Report , 1 February 2024 , Vol . 744 , c . 13mc . ] . I thank the Secretary of State for give way again ; he be be generous . I think there be many reason why Tata would not be consider full closure , not least the multibillion cost of close down the Port Talbot steelwork . the remediation cost would be absolutely astronomical , so that be never on the table . the choice be between the bad deal that the Government have do with Tata and the compelling multi - union deal . can we please just have the fact on the table , which be that this be not about close the plant versus the Government ' s deal , but about the multi - union deal be the right way forward ? I understand the hon . Gentleman ' s position and he be right to stand up for his worker . this be the reality of the situation : that plan have not persuade Tata . Tata have not say that it be credible . Tata have say to I that it could not go along with that plan , because although one of the blast furnace — blast furnace no . 4 — have a number of year to run , it would still come to the end of the life of the coke plant and the sinter plant , so if Tata go ahead with that proposal , it would keep open one blast furnace , which be still lose a lot of money , and then have to start import all the coke and all the sinter that it would need for it . there be then the technical problem in that Tata say it would be very difficult indeed to build an arc furnace next to a work blast furnace contain molten steel . [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman can shake his head , but that be what it be say to we . that be what it have say to we as a Government and that be why we find ourselves in the difficult , unpleasant and awful situation of have to choose between 3 , 000 people lose their job and 17 , 500 people lose their job . [ Official Report , 1 February 2024 , Vol . 744 , c . 14mc . ] ( Correction ) that be why we come to the decision we do . rise — may I just continue , because I have only three minute leave ? I want to say something about those 3 , 000 people . I work in a steel plant myself . I work in Llanwern when I leave school , so I be directly involve in this and I feel it . I say to the worker that I have meet the trade union on a number of occasion . in fact , I will cancel what I be suppose to be do next and I will go out there in the Public Gallery and meet the worker , with the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) and anyone from the union , to explain the Government ' s commitment . there be £ 100 million on top of the £ 500 million , which will be there for the community in Port Talbot . it will be there to develop infrastructure to get other company in . but the most important thing , and the hon . Gentleman know that I have say this in the transition board meeting , be to ensure that anyone and everyone who lose their job have the absolute maximum opportunity to retrain and do anything that they want to do as far as retraining be concern — to help to set people up in business , to get they licence , to get they any training they want . there be a massive commitment from the UK Government to that and we will not turn our back on the people of Port Talbot . my right hon . friend be make an extremely powerful and factual case , rather than some of the wilder claim that have be make . bear in mind that this be a devolved responsibility , be he aware of any capital sum that the Welsh Government be make available to support the community ? the Welsh Government have make it clear that they be not able at the moment to put in the sort of money that would be need to come up with any kind of different plan . there be no other plan on the table , which be why we find ourselves in the situation we be in . I will turn very quickly to a couple of point that be make . first , on primary or virgin steel , obviously all the iron ore and coal use in the plant be be import . we be , therefore , at this moment , dependent on other country for our virgin steel capacity . the advantage of an arc furnace , although this be not the situation that I want to be in , be that we would not be dependent on foreign country for the supply of steel because , as the Minister for Industry and Economic Security , my hon . friend the Member for Wealden ( Ms Ghani ) point out , we currently export 8 million tonne . will the Minister give way ? I think I have well keep go because I have one minute leave . on defence , none of the steel be produce in Port Talbot be go into the defence industry . the defence industry use steel from Sheffield Forgemasters , which be create by an electric arc furnace . there be an issue , historically , with the quality of the steel that come out of an arc furnace , but all the expert have tell I that it be get well and well all the time . Tata expect an electric arc furnace to be able to supply about 90 % of the product that it currently supply through the blast furnace . exciting technology be be develop that use hydrogen instead of coal or coke to reduce iron , but there be only one plant do it , at Lule å in Sweden . it be completely experimental at the moment . there be a podcast on the BBC in which the chief executive be interview make it clear that it be 25 % more expensive than the steel produce in a convention blast furnace . so good luck try to persuade Tata that it should get rid of produce steel in the usual fashion and replace it with something that be 25 % more expensive . the reality be — rise — I know my time be up , but the plan that Labour Members have wave around have not be put to Tata by the Labour party . claim to move the closure ( Standing Order no . 36 ) . question put forthwith , that the question be now put . question agree to . Main Question accordingly put . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Daniel Zeichner Jeff Smith Christian Wakeford Holly Lynch Andrew Western the House divide : Ayes 223 , Noes 0 . question accordingly agree to . business without Debate delegate legislation with the leave of the House , I will put motion 3 to 5 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Sanctions that the Iran ( Sanctions ) Regulations 2023 ( SI , 2023 , no . 1314 ) , date 11 December 2023 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 13 December 2023 , be approve . that the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 5 ) Regulations 2023 ( SI , 2023 , no . 1367 ) , date 12 December 2023 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 14 December 2023 , be approve . that the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 4 ) Regulations 2023 ( SI , 2023 , no . 1364 ) , date 12 December 2023 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 14 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . Petition - stand charge on Energy Bills at a time of soar energy cost and a cost of live crisis , there be no doubt that high standing charge be a major burden for many , and particularly for low energy user , who have less ability to reduce their bill by reduce energy consumption . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , declare that in a time of soar energy cost and a crisis in the cost of living , the high standing charge impose by utility company represent a significant burden on household finance ; far that scottish household bear some of the high electricity standing charge in the UK , with household in Linlithgow and East Falkirk currently pay 62 . 1p per day on direct debit , and 69 . 2p per day on standard credit ; and note that the result of high standing charge be that low energy user can save proportionally less money by reduce usage , thus disempowere these household and offer no incentive to reduce energy usage at a time when energy efficiency and environmental sustainability be so vital . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider abolish standing charge , to alleviate the financial pressure upon household in the cost of living crisis , and to encourage responsible energy use for the good of our planet . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002894 ] Petition - Local Businesses and the closure of the Botley Road in Oxford Network Rail ' s closure of Botley Road be have a significant and detrimental impact on local business , with some owner experience an up to 60 % drop in income . my constituent be extremely concerned for these cherish small business , with 437 people sign this petition . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Oxford West and Abingdon , declare that the closure of Botley Road due to ongoing work at Oxford Rail Station be have a significant and detrimental effect on local business ; note that local business owner report they be experience up to 60 % drop in income ; far note the vital contribution of small business to the UK economy . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to ensure local business be able to access a Business Support Fund during the extended closure of Botley Road . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002902 ] Revised National Planning Framework Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) I be grateful for have secure this debate , and even more grateful that the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety be here to respond . in December , the Government announce significant change to their house building planning policy , give new power and freedom to local planning authority , such as mine in Basingstoke and Deane , through change to the national planning policy framework to vary their plan house building number away from the standard method , among other thing . the Secretary of State rightfully attach to these new power and freedom a single , clear and unambiguous condition : " with these change secure , there be now an add responsibility on local government to deliver . " that responsibility on local planning authority to deliver at their own plan be what I will focus on today . for too many year , some planning authority have rely on Government for their house building figure , choose the path of least resistance and do what the standard formula tell they , in the absence of have ask council official to collect evidence , or perhaps for fear of be challenge if they actually challenge the standard method and have to allocate more people to their planning department . however , those day be over . just a month after these significant change , many local authority will still be digest what they mean for they . I hope that this debate and the Minister ' s response will help to explain the breadth of these new freedom to challenge and the new responsibility that local authority have . my local authority , Basingstoke and Deane , publish paper to approve its update local plan , with new plan level of house building , for public consultation on exactly the same day as the Government ' s new policy change . I be sure that behind the scene official and elect councillor will be agree how their proposal need to change in the light of the Government ' s new policy , which so readily could deal with the concern about high level of house building express by thousand of my constituent . at this point , let I pay particular tribute to the resident ’ group in my constituency , particularly Clean Air Green Environment , or CAGE ; and save our Lodden Valley Environment , or SOLVE . they have work so hard to make the case to cut house building in our borough over many year . these new Government policy be a powerful tool to help achieve that aim . the Secretary of State ' s statement make it clear that the extensive change that have be make to the NPPF must be take into account by the planning inspector . of course , all the change apply to all of the country , but certain change be more important to certain local authority . for Basingstoke , which , as the Minister know , have build home for more than 150 , 000 people since 1960 , the most relevant change be the one to the standard assessment model — the formula use to determine house building rate . it be now an advisory starting point , not a mandatory end point . in place such as Basingstoke , where we have a unique set of factor , the standard method have generate house building number in the past that be both inappropriate and unachievable . as a result of the change that the Minister introduce , the local authority be now able to consider vary more widely from that standard assessment , have look at " exceptional circumstance " , to ensure that house building in our community well reflect the nuance of our individual situation . I have be campaign since I be first elect — I think you can remember that , Mr Deputy Speaker — for house building that reflect local need , not a formula . I do so when I call for " no more tower block and gridlock " in the 2005 election ; in my first Westminster Hall debate ; and when work with local environmental group and resident ’ group . it be what we advocate for at the last planning inspector ' s review of our current local plan . it have also be the subject of a recent petition present to the local authority , which be support by thousand of resident . we want to see house building level cut to reflect our local need , not a standard method formulate in Whitehall . local authority be well place to ensure that the right home be build in the right place , so do the right hon . Lady agree that we need to protect the voice of local community in the planning process ? it be as if the hon . Lady have read what I be about to say — she be completely right . cut house building in Basingstoke will well reflect the situation we have in our community , and that be what my resident want to see , not those number continue to be set from Whitehall . the right hon . Lady have outline the way house building impact her constituency , but do she agree that while plan policy must protect and enhance our environment , it must also focus on the need of an area ? planner must give material consideration and weighted concern to economic development and job creation . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . each of those consideration be different in our individual constituency , so rather than take a sledgehammer and tell each of our local authority how many house to build , they should reflect the nuance that the hon . gentleman mention . as the Secretary of State set out when he announce the change to the national planning policy framework , it be for local authority and their councillor to use the new power . in Basingstoke ' s case , that mean Basingstoke and Deane Borough Council and our councillor . they have to take responsibility for use the new NPPF . they have the new power to use and they understand the pressure that have be put on service , especially the NHS , by exceptionally high volume of house building in Basingstoke . councillor must use the new power to cut house building , at least until the NHS have catch up and , I would argue , until they find a way to far increase the capacity of our road , which be technically very difficult . the right hon . Lady be talk about service that support community in the Basingstoke area . on her point about build resilient community , the NPPF be somewhat lacking when it define such service in rather old - fashioned term , such as community hall , school and church . they be important , but do she agree that we need to bring that up to date to reflect such thing as good broadband and fibre to the premise ? I be sure the hon . Gentleman ' s point have be hear loud and clear by the Minister . he be right that those be essential service on which all our resident now rely . the update NPPF deliberately do not provide an exhaustive list of the applicable exceptional circumstance . the NPPF now show that exceptional circumstance be not to be draw narrowly , which be too often assert in the past by local authority who readily choose to interpret they from case law alone . it be now clear that local authority , include mine in Basingstoke , be able to set out their case for exceptional circumstance for a large number of reason . in Basingstoke , that could be the age demographic of our town . we be the most rapidly age population in Hampshire , with the number of over - 65 grow by 77 % in the last decade . the primary and most compelling factor that make Basingstoke and Deane an outlier be our extraordinary level of historic house building . at the start of the second world war , our population be just 13 , 000 . by 1961 , it have grow to 25 , 000 . today , our population be 186 , 000 , so we have grow from 13 , 000 to 186 , 000 in less than a lifetime . put another way , our population be now almost 1 , 500 time great than it be in the second world war . those be exceptional circumstance that have a clear bearing on the capacity of my community to absorb future high level of house building . not only be such accelerated house building affect our natural environment , especially our unique and irreplaceable north - flow salmonoid chalk stream ; it be also put an unsustainable strain on public service , particularly our local road and the NHS . the Government have invest record sum in my community , but we be fast feeling maxe out . there be to be a brand - new hospital , but not until 2032 , and £ 60 million be expect on road improvement , but there be now no additional capacity technically possible . resident be clear about this . thousand want to cut house building level . they be live in a constant building site with more than 1 , 000 new home be build every year , green space disappear every day , and road work try to squeeze the last ounce of capacity out of every road and junction . enough be enough . Basingstoke and Deane Borough Council publish its local plan , which cling to the now outdated policy of standard method as its end point , as if it continue to be set in stone . as a result , the draft plan fail to slow down house building , ratchet up building rate over time to dizzy level and completely fail to reflect our exceptional circumstance , which I have just outline . I thank the right hon . Lady for give way . People also have to live in those community and be entertain . do she agree that music venue be enormously important for the cultural talent pipeline ? the agent of change principle seek to protect those venue from neighbouring development . that be why it be incorporate into the planning policy guidance . do she therefore agree that this now need to be enshrine in law to strengthen the protection for music venue and for our musician of the future ? the right hon . Gentleman may not know this , but I be the mother of two musician and I would have to agree with he — for fear of the consequence if I do not . I hope that the Minister have listen to he as well , as he make a valid point . I know from conversation that I have have on the doorstep in Basingstoke for many year that excessive house building be the no . 1 issue for many resident . it be so disappointing that the borough council have not yet exercise its new power , especially give all the hard work that the Minister have put into change the nppf to well accommodate place with exceptional circumstance , such as Basingstoke . some of my councillor have support a short - term approach , bag the reduction in the five - year land supply to four year , but surely they should also share my concern that they could easily see further manipulation of development be carry forward to make that apparent gain evaporate quite quickly . what we need be the long - term solution , not a quick fix . none the less , I be an optimist . Basingstoke and Deane Borough Council start its public consultation on 22 January and it will run until 4 March , so that resident who be interested in the local plan and in house building level can take part , and also perhaps support my petition at the same time , call on the council to use its new power to make the case for cut house building level to the planning inspector . nothing be guarantee ; that be obvious . evidence must be present , and the case — the case that be right for the community — also have to be make . and what be right for the community be certainly not continue house building at the current level . I hope to embolden Basingstoke and Deane Borough Council to make change . I hope the Minister can answer a couple of question to help they on their way . first , will the planning inspector be expect new interpretation of " exceptional circumstance " follow the recent change to the NPPF ? too often in the past I have be tell that it apply only to the greenbelt . my reading be that that be no long the case . do he expect every local authority to at least acknowledge the new NPPF policy in their local plan ? and would he share the surprise of local resident if any local authority be to completely ignore the new NPPF policy and act as if no change have be make at all ? nothing be more important to I than ensure that everyone in my constituency have a place to live in — an affordable home . it be the Conservatives who have make sure that , in my constituency , affordable home make up 40 % of all new home . however , Basingstoke have for decade be make up for the lack of house building elsewhere — in London , throughout the south - east and beyond . the Government change to the NPPF mean that now our local planning authority , Basingstoke and Deane Borough Council , can take responsibility for ensure that its house building plan reflect the exceptional circumstance that I have outline in Basingstoke , and indeed in neighbour Oakley and other surround village , where the vast majority of house building have take place . the council must look again at its plan , which be draw up before these important new Government policy be launch , and do what be right . I believe what be right be to cut house building to a level that be appropriate for our community , take into account the sort of nuanced circumstance that the Secretary of State talk about when he launch those new policy . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) for secure the debate and for the excellent speech she just deliver on behalf of her constituent . she clearly stand up for her constituent , and I know they will have be listen tonight . I know housing and planning be an important issue for the people of Basingstoke and , indeed , many people across the country . that be exactly why we take to update the national planning policy framework just before Christmas . this Government want to build more home , but we want to build they in the right place . we want to build they more quickly , beautifully and sustainably . the right way to deliver that be through a reform planning system that work . we be clear that it be only through up - to - date local plan that local authority can deliver for community , protect the land and asset that matter , and create the condition for more home to be deliver all across the country . as the House know , we consult last year on a series of proposal and receive more than 26 , 000 response , demonstrate the interest in plan to so many community up and down the land . the result update of the framework build on the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 and deliver on the intent set out by the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities last year . it do so in a way that seek to promote build the right home in the right place with the right infrastructure , which will ensure that the environment be protect and will give local people a great say on where , and where not , to place development . I thank the Minister for give way and congratulate the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) on secure the debate . on the issue of a local say , will the Minister expand slightly on the placement of thing like solar farm ? it be the wild west . in place such as Oxfordshire , we have a number of solar farm come forward , include possibly the large one in Europe at Botley West . for those that be over 50 MW , it do not feel like local say have anything to do with it . do he consider that when the Government be create this policy ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her comment . many colleague in the House will have experience solar farm , both on a constituency basis and from a national policy consideration . there be obviously a trade - off to be make here . the Liberal Democrats be extremely keen on renewable energy , as we all be , and there be implication to that . she be right to highlight that this have to be consider within the appropriate boundary of the individual area . that be exactly why the Government amend the national planning policy framework and exactly why the Conservatives be seek to establish that balance . we will continue to try to ensure that that balance work for community , while also get we the energy we need , so that when we switch on the light in the morning , they work . as I say , we consult on a series of proposal last year and receive more than 26 , 000 response . that demonstrate the importance of planning for local community . I understand the concern of my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke that Basingstoke and Deane district council have see a high level of housing delivery , include in recent year , in excess of that set out in the adopted local plan in 2016 . indeed , the housing delivery test result for 2022 , publish in December , show that the district have deliver more home than be require through the test . as my right hon . friend outline in her excellent speech , a number of measure be announce in the national planning policy framework update , and I hope to highlight a number of those that may assist the district council and other local council bring forward their local plan . first , as my right hon . Friend indicate , we have be consistently clear that the standard method be a starting point for local authority in assess what to plan for and that it do not set a mandatory target . the framework now set that out in national policy . local authority should be in no doubt that the outcome of the standard method be an advisory starting point for establish housing requirement through plan - making . again , for the avoidance of doubt , that mean that local authority can put forward their own approach to assess need where certain exceptional circumstance exist . can my hon . friend confirm that there will be more type of exceptional circumstance put forward in the future than there have be in the past ? I be absolutely certain that there will be more case for exceptional circumstance put forward in the future , and I encourage council to consider they if they believe that they apply . logically , I would then expect more case for exceptional circumstance to be accept by the Planning Inspectorate , although that will also be for the inspectorate to determine on a case - by - case basis . it be the Government ' s intention to indicate that case for exceptional circumstance can be make , that local authority should weigh up make they and that , if they feel that they have a strong case through the Planning Inspectorate process , they do so for the good of the community they seek to serve . secondly , the revise NPPF now set out that there may be situation where high urban density would be wholly out of character with the exist area , and that that could be a strong reason why significantly uplifting density would be inappropriate . thirdly , our change to the five - year housing land supply policy mean that up - to - date local plan should no long have to demonstrate a five - year housing land supply . my right hon . friend have articulate some of that already , and the consideration go on within her Hampshire constituency , but there be additional flexibility where local authority be do the right thing in get their plan in place and make sure they be retain . as someone represent a constituency that have suffer from planning issue over many decade , I recognise there be always difficulty around plan in individual local area . I understand that , and it be one of the reason why I be so keen to send a message that , while we be clear that we need more house in this country — we absolutely do — they have to go in the right place . it would be incorrect , wrong and irresponsible of we to say " no more housing " when we need people to get on the housing ladder . we value the benefit to our society that a property - own democracy bring and we celebrate every first - time buyer who get on the ladder , because that open up to they the opportunity that gain and accrete capital provide . at the same time , however , we have to accept that not every area , every place or every landscape be appropriate for build on . it be the responsibility of local council to make sure that they be weigh that up properly , get ahead of what will always be challenge decision and have the conversation they need to have with local community at the early possible stage . once again , I thank my right hon . friend for secure this debate . she end with three question , and I want to touch on those before I conclude . this be not just a question of housing ; it be also about public and private facility and a community . as I indicate in my intervention on the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) , part of that be about entertainment and social area , particularly music venue , which be still under pressure . I do not expect an answer tonight , but will the Minister take away the issue of enshrine in legislation some strength for local authority to protect not only local amenity , but the pipeline of talent for our enormously important cultural industry ? I will certainly take that point away , but I hope the right hon . Gentleman will accept that there always a balance about what to put in primary legislation . the law can not mandate virtue , and we have to find way to ensure that our statute book do not get too big and unwieldy — there be an argument that we be already head in that direction after 30 , 40 or 50 year of incessant legislating . however , I recognise the important point he make and I will certainly give it further consideration , although I hope he hear my reticence to state automatically that legislation be always require in all case . my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ask three question at the end of her speech . I hope that I have cover the question of exceptional circumstance to some extent . it be absolutely the case that local authority should put such case forward where reasonable and proportionate , and where they have a clear case . I would expect more exceptional circumstance case to be make , and it be for the Planning Inspectorate to determine their outcome base on the merit or otherwise of their individual circumstance . on that point about exceptional circumstance , many local authority appear to be concern that plead exceptional circumstance will land they with a big legal bill and that they will be challenge in the court . can the Minister give some comfort to those authority that such case will be look upon by planning inspector as something that they expect ? my right hon . friend highlight a continue challenge with the local plan - make process where other actor have issue and consideration . the planning system will never be perfect and give everybody the outcome that they want , but it be important that local planning authority represent their local area have the ability to fully consider the importance of planning for their local area and to put forward their argument in good faith , whether about exceptional circumstance or just through the conventional process , and have they discuss in interaction with the Planning Inspectorate on behalf of the Secretary of State . I encourage they to do so . although the issue my right hon . friend raise be not a new one , that should not retard the ability of people , organisation , council and planning authority to have the debate and discussion that they need to with local community and the planning inspector . on the second question , we absolutely expect local authority to take into account the NPPF . it have be clear that the NPPF be extant from the moment that it be put in place . there be transitional arrangement for some element of it at the end , but it be for local authority to take that into account . I would be surprised if local authority be not do that , because the whole purpose of how they approach plan be to recognise transitional arrangement and the fact that different local authority will be in different place and will have to work out precisely how to consider they . it be vital that local authority take note of the national planning policy framework and the update that have be make . I know that planning be hugely important for local community . my right hon . friend have articulate in great detail the particular issue in Basingstoke . indeed , as constituency MPs , we all have such individual circumstance . she be absolutely right to raise those point and highlight the change that have come and the opportunity that they provide . she be right to stand up for her constituent . it be important that we get plan right . thing will never be perfect , but by have these conversation and make change , I hope that we can make progress as a Government and a country to build more home , but in the right place . question put and agree to . House adjourn .