Oral Answers to Questions Business and Trade the Secretary of State be ask — Scottish Trade and Culture what discussion she have have with ( a ) Cabinet colleague and ( b ) the Scottish Government on promote scottish trade and culture overseas . I regularly discuss with my Cabinet colleague promote trade in Scotland as well as the United Kingdom as a whole . just this week I chair a meeting of the Board of Trade that focus on trade promotion across the nation , and hold discussion , alongside the Secretary of State for Scotland , on ensure that the Department ' s work deliver for the whole UK . that sound just wonderful , but I would like to know how the Secretary of State think end freedom of movement have help to promote scottish trade and culture overseas . do she think it be a good thing that musician in Glasgow North now find it much more difficult to tour in Europe — one of the most important market for traditional scottish music nowadays — and that their merchandise can no long be manufacture in Scotland but must be manufacture in the country to which they be travel because the custom cost have become so prohibitive ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s early - morning snarkiness as he ask about what we be do for Scotland . we understand that there be issue that people have across border , and my Department work closely with musician and with all those who trade across border to see what we can do to resolve those issue . if there be specific case in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , the Department be well place to help his constituent with the issue he have describe . I call the shadow Secretary of State . Scotch whisky be an iconic scottish export , and it be also hugely important strategically to the whole UK . have Ministers complete the free trade agreement with India by Diwali last year , as be promise , the 150 % tariff that producer of Scotch face when export to India could have be eliminate . give that the 10th round of talk have recently end , with an 11th plan soon , can the Secretary of State tell we whether the free trade agreement will be complete by Diwali this year ? I have say repeatedly that it be about the deal and not the day . every single trade agreement that we negotiate be bespoke to the specific country and tailor to its economy , to ensure that it benefit both the UK and the counterpart country . I be happy to say that the Scotch Whisky Association be very pleased with what it have be hear about negotiation from its indian counterpart , and we be work hard to make sure that the industry be successful . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the scottish seafood industry have be hit with an estimate 50 % increase in the cost of packaging owe to the requirement — thank to the form of Brexit choose by this government — for export health certificate with every consignment . do the Secretary of State accept that the form of Brexit that be choose , and in particular the failure to align in respect of sanitary and phytosanitary matter , be add cost to Scotland ' s iconic seafood sector at a time when it can barely afford to absorb such cost ? no , I do not accept that at all . if anything , what be increase the cost be what the Scottish Government have be do in relation to the deposit return scheme . while complain about our divergence between here and the EU , they be try to split the UK single market , and we be not go to let they do that . steel industry : Decarbonisation what step she be take to help the steel industry to decarbonise . the Paris agreement make clear that the steel industry need to cut emission by 93 % by 2050 , and the Government recognise the vital role that the steel sector play in our economy . the 2021 net zero strategy set out our aim to make the transition to a low - carbon economy , and reaffirm our commitment to continue to work with the steel industry on decarbonisation . hundred of steelworker gather in Westminster yesterday to make absolutely clear their feeling that the Government be not do enough , particularly in comparison with competitor nation , when it come to investment in the transition to decarbonise steel . the number do not lie . the Government be also worryingly slow in introduce a carbon border adjustment mechanism . UK Steel have estimate that nearly 23 million tonne of non - EU steel could flood the UK market if the UK fail to introduce its own carbon border adjustment mechanism at the same time as the EU in 2026 . when will we see the Government step up and invest in green steel as be be do in competitor country , and when can we expect the introduction of a british cbam ? we have be support the steel industry , with more than £ 1 billion available in grant to help decarbonise the sector and the provision of more than £ 730 million to cover energy cost since 2013 . the cbam be clearly an issue for many country , not just ours . we have just finish one consultation , and will produce a response in due course . a transitional reporting phase be due to start in October , with full introduction in 2026 . the EU be still develop detail about cbam implementation , and have a consultation open on propose reporting requirement until 11 July . I know that the hon . member chair the all - party parliamentary group for steel and metal relate industry , and I urge he to ensure that all business express their view as strongly as possible . I think we be meet on Monday to make sure that we can provide a substantial response . I call the shadow Minister . the Minister say that she recognise the vital role that steel play in this country , but the UK be the only country in the G20 where steel production be fall . it be also the only G7 country whose Government do not insist on use domestically produce steel in defence contract . meanwhile , UK steel producer pay 62 % more than their german counterpart for electricity . labour ' s £ 3 billion green steel plan will give our industry the bright future that other country be offer their steel sector . labour believe in our steel ; why do this Government not ? I be not sure where Labour member will get the money to fund that programme of work . I have not even get to the end of read this paper but they will probably u - turn by the time I do , so I be not sure how sensible it be go to be . we have provide more than £ 1 billion for decarbonisation , unprecedented support to help with energy cost , and just recently , there be fantastic news from Celsa , when it be able to repay a Government loan of £ 30 million that we provide to they , sensibly spend taxpayer ' money . there be and always have be support available . when it come to procurement , it be absolutely right that we do everything we can to make sure that we have UK firm procure UK steel . food Prices what recent assessment she have make of the potential impact of her Department ' s trade policy on food price . we recognise the important role that trade can play in improve food security . that be why our trade policy aim to help people to access good - quality and good - value food . our free trade agreement help to remove market access barrier , support our importer and exporter . the new develop country trading scheme , for example , reduce tariff on nearly £ 1 . 4 billion - worth of agriculture good , and we work with international partner , include at the World Trade Organisation , to remove trade barrier and strengthen the UK ' s global food supply . I be grateful to the Minister for his answer , but Melissa Leach , the director of the Institute of Development Studies , have speak about the need to increase access to affordable , nutritious food . she say : " over the last decade , charity have step in to plug the gap leave by the state but this be not an acceptable or sustainable way to address the grow prevalence of hunger " . do the Minister accept that his Government ' s commitment to Brexit have lead to increase price of food that be import and have contribute to food poverty in the UK ? the hon . Gentleman will be well aware that food price inflation be not unique to the UK ; it be a global phenomenon that we all face . actually , food price inflation peak at 19 . 2 % in the EU and at 19 . 2 % in the UK , so we be face the same problem . however , we have provide more than £ 94 billion - worth of support precisely to help the most vulnerable in society . there be many factor impact food inflation , not least increase global input cost , but surely the most important thing that my hon . friend ' s Department can do to shore up british agriculture and have a positive impact on food price be to carry on , full speed ahead , get the new trade deal that will see british first - class produce sell as a premium product worldwide . my hon . friend be absolutely correct . it be really important that we have support across the House for these important trade deal . they be good for the british economy , particularly good for british farmer , and good for price in the UK . I hope , at some point , to see the opposition party support one of these important deal , which be transparently in the interest of british consumer in every nation and region of the United Kingdom . I call the shadow Minister . since 2019 , food price in the UK have rocket by 26 % , a figure that be among the high in the G7 , yet the Prime Minister ' s plan for new border check on highly perishable food from Europe could push price up again . a veterinary agreement would cut the cost of bring food into Britain from Europe . give that many family be already struggle to put enough food on the table and that every significant business organisation support a veterinary agreement with the EU , why will the Secretary of State not take the sensible and pragmatic step of start negotiation for such an agreement ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that discussion be happen on an ongoing basis with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office about the trade and co - operation agreement and other matter . we have very constructive dialogue with our EU partner . in fact , the Secretary of State and I have a meeting with the EU ambassador just yesterday . as for our achievement since leave the EU , it be important to stress one thing : we have be laser - focused on make sure that the benefit be for the british consumer . we have get rid of thousand and thousand of tariff . we have liberalise tariff , reduce they or eliminate they altogether . for example , to compare we with the EU , 27 % of the EU ' s current external tariff be zero - rate , whereas the proportion for the UK be 47 % . we be significantly reduce tariff , which be in the good interest of the british consumer , as a result of leave the European Union . trade with Africa what step she be take to increase trade with african country . to increase and grow trade with Africa , we be use our nine trade agreement , cover 18 african nation . in April 2024 , the Prime Minister will host the second UK - Africa investment summit to showcase investment opportunity and advance two - way trade . just this month , we launch the develop country trading scheme , which cover 65 country , include 37 african country . that be all good news , particularly the develop country trading scheme . I be recently in Ethiopia for a trade visit . can the Minister tell I how the develop country trading scheme , in particular , will help Ethiopia ? I thank my hon . friend and constituency neighbour for the work he do as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to Ethiopia and many other country . I be also in Ethiopia recently , and many people be praise my hon . friend and his work . he be right that the develop country trading scheme will reduce tariff , which be a win - win both for develop country , make it easy and cheap for they to export to the UK , and for UK consumer because it will reduce price . it be not just a matter of have the deal ; we be laser - focused on make sure the benefit of the deal be realise , with more than 100 Department for Business and Trade official work in Africa to make sure we get the full benefit of these deal . as the government rightly consider new trade deal with other country , what lesson will they learn from the hideous mistake make in the New Zealand and Australia trade deal ? the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , a former Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , rightly say that they be bad deal for Britain . give that british farmer be so angry with this government , have be throw under the bus on animal welfare and on environmental and cost issue , will he learn lesson from those mistake and make sure british farmer be protect , and that environmental and animal welfare standard be protect , too ? I be , quite frankly , astound by the hon . Gentleman ' s comment . he be well aware , as I have say repeatedly and be widely acknowledge , that the trade deal we have develop , include with Australia and New Zealand , be economically beneficial right across the UK , include in his constituency . if he do not wish to support policy that be in the good economic interest of his constituency , that be something his constituent probably need to recognise come the next election . Israel : Free Trade Agreement what progress she have make on negotiate a bilateral free trade agreement with Israel . we be continue to make progress towards an upgrade UK - Israel free trade agreement , focus on service , procurement and innovation , and we conclude the second round of negotiation on 17 May . as two service - drive economy , this negotiation be an excellent opportunity to build on our exist good - focus agreement , particularly to boost trade in service with an innovative , high - tech nation such as Israel . the UK ' s trade with Israel increase by 42 % in 2022 compare with 2021 , and it be value at £ 7 . 2 billion . Israel be a key trade and security partner in the region , and it be a world leader in many area . can the Minister update the House on the Department ' s progress on the trade aim outline in the 2030 road map for UK - Israel bilateral relation , namely the establishment of a UK - Israel free trade agreement , the Britain - Israel Investment Group and a UK - Israel innovation and investment summit ? my hon . friend be all over the number , which save I from repeat they . the benefit of the trade agreement be obvious , and we continue to strengthen our trade relationship with Israel , which be a value friend and ally . as outline in the 2030 road map for UK - Israel relation , a service - base free trade agreement between our two nation will act as a cornerstone of this relationship in year to come . as such , we be pleased to have successfully conclude the second round of negotiation in London just last month , and we look forward to hold further talk in due course . I thank the Minister for that very positive response . we in Northern Ireland be keen to ensure that the bilateral trade agreement benefit our company as well . some people and council across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland wish to downgrade Israel ' s good . I know that the Minister and our Government want to do the very opposite . will the Minister tell the House what he be prepared to do to ensure that israeli good be promote right across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? absolutely . Israel be already a really important trading partner , right across the UK , and it will continue to be so . as we negotiate this deal , it be important that we focus on the area of great opportunity . once the deal be do — of course , this be an upgrade — we will be actively work to make sure that the communication about the benefit of the deal be understand by everybody . we will be work with various body and group , include the devolve Administrations and body , to make sure that we take full benefit from these deal . sign the deal be one thing , but take and make the good of the opportunity be another — we will be work on that as well . Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership what step her Department be take to ensure that the UK ' s accession to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership increase economic opportunity for business and consumer . the CPTPP will be benefit every nation and region of our country . in particular , UK firm will enjoy enhance access to Malaysia for the first time , include a reduction on tariff on whisky sale to Malaysia of 80 % within 10 year , improve prospect for trade and open up opportunity in an economy worth £ 330 billion . we should all congratulate the Secretary of State and her team on conclude the CPTPP negotiation , and it should be ratify any time now in New Zealand . of course the most important new element of the trans - Pacific partnership be this first ever free trade agreement with our long - term friend and ally , Malaysia . whether in car , cyber , chocolate , vaccine or legal and other service , the opportunity for british exporter be considerable and , of course , the dividend from our investment there , such as the new Smith & Nephew plant , will also help our balance of payment . do my right hon . friend therefore agree that there be a great opportunity for we and Malaysia to work together on spread the word , through our regional office , the UK - ASEAN Business Council and every other mean possible , to make sure that business in both country be absolutely aware of the opportunity that the deal offer ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . he will be pleased to know that Ministers in the Department meet their counterpart , the malaysian export Minister , this very week . a lot be go on between our two country . the Department work closely with the UK - ASEAN Business Council , and our first bilateral joint economic trade committee with Malaysia be expect later this year . it will help promote the bilateral trade and investment and economic co - operation that he rightly champion as the trade envoy to that country . he will know that I will be sign the CPTPP agreement next month in New Zealand . I call the shadow Minister . clearly , it be vital that british business that want to export can access the benefit of trade deal . however , the Government admit to I in a write answer that they have not model the benefit of the CPTPP for our hard - press manufacturing business , so will the Minister tell I how many UK manufacturer will benefit from the rule of origin requirement under the cptpp ? the hon . Lady will know that we do not count the number of company specifically in our modelling . the modelling happen at a very high level — it be macro - level modelling . what she should know be that rule of origin will benefit people who export to that region , particularly auto manufacturer , who be very pleased about the deal . Israel : Free Trade Agreement what step her Department have take to ensure that the free trade agreement with Israel complie with the UK ' s obligation in section 5 of United Nations Security Council resolution 2334 . what step her Department have take to ensure that the free trade agreement with Israel complie with international law . what step her Department have take to ensure that the free trade agreement with Israel complie with the UK ' s obligation in section 5 of United Nations Security Council resolution 2334 . the UK ' s position on settlement be clear : they be illegal under international law , present an obstacle to peace and threaten the physical viability of a two - state solution , as set out in the UN Security Council resolution 2334 and restate recently by the UNSC presidential statement in February 2023 . we repeatedly call on Israel to abide by its obligation under international law and have a regular dialogue with Israel on legal issue relate to the occupation . the Minister be clearly aware then that resolution 2334 state that country must " distinguish , in their relevant dealing , between the territory of the State of Israel and the territory occupy since 1967 . " I welcome his comment confirm that the Government ' s belief be that the settlement be illegal under international law . how will the Government ensure that good and service from these illegal settlement — in effect , steal land — be exclude from the benefit of a free trade agreement ? under our exist agreement , israeli good from the state of Israel receive tariff preference under the UK - Israel partnership agreement . palestinian good , from the occupy Palestinian Territories , benefit from trade preference in the interim UK - Palestinian Authority bilateral agreement . to be clear , only good originate from the state of Israel be cover by our current FTA , and that will not change in the upgrade FTA . last week , it be report by the Jerusalem Post that Israel ' s National Security Minister Ben - Gvir , who just 15 year ago be convict of incite racism and support a terrorist organisation , have tell settler in the illegal west bank outpost of Evyatar : " the Land of Israel must be settle and at the same time as the settlement of the Land a military operation must be launch . " he then speak of demolition and the killing of " thousand " of Palestinians , in order to " fulfil our great mission . " will the Minister condemn those genocidal remark about Palestinians , and ensure that any trade deal with Israel explicitly ban UK trade with those illegal settlement and make binding regulation for company to uphold human right standard ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that the UK be a lead advocate of human right around the world . we have very frank conversation with our ally and we have frank and honest discussion across Government . in answer to the trade element of his question , as I say previously , only good originate in the state of Israel be cover by our current FTA , and that will not change under the upgrade FTA . I welcome the Minister ' s restatement of Government policy in his previous answer , but if the UK sign a trade deal without a territorial clause define the border between Israel and Palestine , it will be see in legal term as equivalent to let Israel decide by default to include its settlement in the occupied Palestinian Territories as part of Israel . be the Minister aware that that risk a situation where , in effect , the UK recognise illegal settlement in the west bank as part of Israel , which be counter to the Government ' s state policy ? I refer the hon . Lady to the answer I give a moment ago , but I wish to reiterate that it be long - stand UK foreign policy that israeli settlement beyond the 1967 boundary be illegal . european Single Market : UK Withdrawal what recent assessment her Department have make of the potential effect of the UK ' s withdrawal from the european single market on business and trade . have regain our regulatory sovereignty now that we have leave the European Union , we be now able to ensure that our regulation be tailor to the UK economy , support our business and protect our consumer . have leave the single market , we can focus on UK trade with the world , where total trade be up 24 % , so the answer to his question be that the effect be that total trade be up . resilient and effective route to market be essential for trade . the congestion that be currently be experience at Dover be a significant barrier to effective trade . we can add to that the HGV mile from Scotland to the south - east and the impact on the quantity carry , on perishable and on cost , never mind the environmental impact . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we reintroduce direct link from Scotland to mainland Europe and ensure trade be friction - free from Scotland ? I do not think the hon . Member hear my answer : trade be up . the reality be that this scaremongering just have to stop . the scaremongering be basically a cover for petty nationalism , and I would ask he to be passionate about the market that matter , which be between Scotland and England . rise — if the hon . Member be passionate about scottish business and scottish job , he would be passionate about the single market that matter . Neonatal Care what step she be take to implement the Neonatal Care ( Leave and Pay ) Act 2023 . I thank my hon . friend for be the foremost parliamentary champion for this important cause . the Neonatal Care ( Leave and Pay ) Act 2023 will give eligible employ parent up to 12 week of extra pay leave if their new baby be admit to neonatal care , provide extra support at a very worrying time . we be keen to introduce the new entitlement as quickly as possible . I thank the Minister for that answer and his Department for its work on deliver the Neonatal Care ( Leave and Pay ) Act . it be fantastic news for so many parent across the country . we all want to see this entitlement deliver as quickly as possible . it really should be possible for the Department to deliver it for April next year , as there be time to deliver the require statutory instrument and guidance . there be example of where his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have be able to move forward quickly to deliver such change . will the Minister update the House on his work to drive through this important change , so that parent do not have to wait a second long than necessary for this entitlement , which will support they during the most difficult and dark time in their life ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to press we on this . we need to do this as quickly as possible and we be keen , as I have say , to do that . similar work do require update HMRC IT system and parliamentary consideration be , of course , require for secondary legislation . there be seven piece of secondary legislation , and support be need for employer and payroll provider to implement the change . we can not introduce this mid - year ; it have to be at the start of the year . I therefore think it very unlikely that we will be able to do that before April 2025 . battery Sector what step her Department be take to support the battery sector . I recently visit Williams Advanced Engineering , an excellent example of british engineer work at the cutting edge of battery technology , include on project benefit from the Faraday battery challenge . the Government ' s £ 541 million Faraday battery challenge have support more than 140 organisation work across the UK , attract over £ 400 million in co - investment , and enable 500 researcher across more than 25 university to improve and develop battery technology . we know that the United Kingdom need more battery production facility in order to achieve net zero and build an automotive industry that be fit for the future . on the Blyth estuary , we have the good site in the UK for high - volume battery manufacturing , with green power supply , a deep - water port , and a talented and willing workforce . do the Minister agree that it be vital that this Government grasp the opportunity and do all that they can to bring much - need new green job to south - east Northumberland ? yes , of course , I do agree with my hon . friend . I know that Blyth have an excellent location for a gigafactory . I just want he to know , as he represent that constituency , that we continue to work closely with the local authority to secure the good outcome for that site . will the Secretary of State be slightly cautious about a battery - drive future ? I recently visit JCB , which have develop a hydrogen combustion engine that be work well with heavy vehicle . Hydrogen be move very fast indeed . will she encourage the production of hydrogen and visit JCB just to see the really innovative work that it be do ? will she stop the Transport Minister in the House of Lords diss hydrogen as ineffective ? far be it from I to stop our noble friend in the other place from do what they think be right . none the less , I do agree with the hon . Gentleman . my view be , let a thousand flower bloom . Hydrogen be one of the viable way of help we to get to net zero , and the Government be look at all possible option to make sure that we support the cut - edge technology that will get we to our green transition . export to the EU what the value of export to the EU be in ( a ) 2016 , ( b ) 2019 and ( c ) the last year for which data be available . the value of UK export , measure in current price , to the EU — include good and service — be £ 247 billion in 2016 , £ 298 billion in 2019 , and £ 340 billion in 2022 . the EU remain the UK ' s large export market , receive 42 % of UK export in 2022 . that be all very interesting , because , during the Brexit referendum , " Project Fear " tell we that if we leave the EU , million of people would lose their job , our export would collapse , and the economy would go into freefall . here in 2023 , with we outside the European Union , employment be at record high and unemployment at record low , the eurozone be in recession and we be not , and our export to the EU be at record level . be it not now demonstrably true that we be always go to be well off out ? as Churchill once say , the pessimist see a crisis in every opportunity , but the optimist , which my hon . friend be , see an opportunity in every crisis . the UK ' s total export have recover to pre - pandemic level measure against 2018 . in 2022 UK export be £ 815 billion , up 21 % in current price and up 0 . 5 % once adjust for inflation . there be no doubt that UK export be excel and will continue to do so . I call the shadow Minister . the truth be that in the year state , export to the EU fall as a proportion of total trade . last month it be not inflation that halve , but export of fruit to the EU . the British Chambers of Commerce have report that more small and medium - sized enterprise be see export fall than rise , and Britain have the low export rate in the G7 . when a business tell I that it use to take three day for its product to reach shelf in Germany and now it take 30 , be it not fair to conclude that the Government have fail on the economy , have no plan to make Brexit work and be make business pay the price ? that back up my comment on pessimism ; the hon . Lady be cherry - pick the bad possible figure she can find . in my conversation this week at the OECD conference on sme , nation around the world be cry out to do business with the UK , and indeed be do so . of course we be try to tackle market barrier where they exist . we be lead a whole - of - Government effort to remove a hit list of 100 market access barrier , include those arise in Europe , to open up opportunity to UK exporter worth more than £ 20 billion . the most recent statistic , for the year end March 2023 , show that 45 barrier be resolve in Europe in that year , compare with 41 in the previous year . export : EU Withdrawal what recent assessment her Department have make of trend in the level of good export since the UK ' s withdrawal from the EU . on a similar theme to my previous answer , the UK ' s total export have recover to pre - pandemic level measure against 2018 . in 2022 , UK export be £ 815 billion , up 21 % in current price and by 0 . 5 % once adjust for inflation . I thank the Minister for that answer . however , since the UK leave the European Union its trade surplus with the rest of the world have decline from £ 46 billion to £ 5 billion . be it this Government ' s goal to wipe out the UK ' s trade surplus when they commit to leave the European Union ? I say again that UK trade with the EU have recover to pre - pandemic level when measure in current price , worth £ 772 billion in 2022 , 14 % high in current price than in 2018 . we be make significant progress , not just with the European Union but with the rest of the world . we see our place in the world as be able to trade with the entire world , not just focus entirely on the EU . Steel Industry what step she be take to help support the steel industry . the Government be actively engage with the steel industry for a sustainable future , and my right hon . friend the Business Secretary recently visit Tata and British Steel to see work that be under way . since 2020 the Government have provide some £ 35 million in direct funding to support steel producer , on top of the hundred of million of pound in energy price relief for the sector since 2013 . I echo the early comment of my hon . friend the Member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) on the great need for support to help our steel sector decarbonise . steelworker from my constituency rally in Parliament Square yesterday , call for the Government to support our steel sector , yet they will have hear the Prime Minister ' s poor response to my hon . friend the Member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) at Prime Minister ' s question , when he merely refer to pre - exist package of support and funding that be not exclusive to steel in the first place . when will the Government accept the scale of the challenge and commit to help ? we accept the scale of the challenge ; it be a global challenge to decarbonise the sector and many country be feel it . however , a potential £ 1 billion in support be not a small measure — it be a large measure . deal with the procurement process to ensure that we have UK contractor secure UK steel in their programme of work be not a small task , nor be deal with energy price . we have provide more than £ 730 million . when the sector need support and we know it be a valid use of taxpayer ' money , we have step in , such as with the more than £ 30 million in Government loan to Celsa Steel in 2020 . that secure 1 , 800 job , and the money have be return to the taxpayer . we be more than happy to work with the hon . Lady and all member who have steel firm in their constituency , but we be go to provide steady support for the long term . Cornish Businesses what step her Department be take to help reduce potential barrier to trade for cornish business . we be target a global hit list of barrier whose removal will deliver massive new opportunity for UK business throughout the country , include in Cornwall . it be estimate that that will be worth more than £ 20 billion over five year . the Government be work to open up new market , include for cornish farmer . british lamb be now be export to America for the first time in over 20 year , and british beef be be send to the Philippines . many of the business in my constituency pay an additional tax by way of a toll to cross the Tamar , which can run into many thousand of pound for they . what representation have the Department make to the Department for Transport to have that additional tax , which can make it hard to compete with firm in the rest of the UK , remove ? I thank my hon . friend for bring that to my attention . she be such a powerful voice for Cornwall . I be surprised that the Department for Transport have not yet buckle , because I know what a champion she be for her constituency and the region . I will ask my team to engage on this matter with their counterpart at the DFT and the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . I know that she will not stop until she get what she deserve for her constituent , so I be more than happy to give the strength to her elbow . trade deal how many trade deal have be agree since 2019 . we have secure trade deal with 70 country , include the EU , since 2019 — partner that account for £ 1 . 1 trillion of UK bilateral trade in 2022 . as I mention early , in March we conclude negotiation with the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership , the UK ' s big trade deal since Brexit . in addition , we have sign five new comprehensive trade deal tailor to the UK — those with Japan , Australia and New Zealand ; a groundbreaking digital economy agreement with Singapore , and a digital trade agreement with Ukraine — as well as the programme of 63 non - EU continuity agreement . the post - brexit develop country trading scheme , which be allude to in early question , cover 65 develop country and 3 . 3 billion people . will my right hon . friend spell out exactly what the benefit be for business and consumer in Hinckley and Bosworth , and the UK , and can she confirm that that be a more generous scheme than the EU scheme that we leave ? I can confirm that our offer be now more generous than what the EU offer in term of market access — for example , we allow the least develop country to source raw material from other market and still import good tariff - free . overall , my hon . friend ' s constituent will be pleased to know that the trade preference in the develop country trading scheme reduce import cost by more than £ 770 million a year . that be key because it help to reduce price and increase choice for UK business and consumer , and to tackle inflation , particularly for the highest - sell item such as clothe and food . trade with European Countries what step she be take to increase trade with european country . Europe remain a vital export destination for british business , with export of £ 401 billion in 2022 , an increase of 26 % on the previous year in current price . only this week , I attend the OECD small and medium - sized enterprise conference , which deal largely with international barrier to trade . we be determined to remove market barrier to make it easy , particularly for sme , to trade across border . on the subject of barrier to trade , not only be our world - lead cultural sector valuable in itself for our soft power , but it be an important part of our export trade . but our musician face unnecessary red tape when try to tour Europe . we need an EU - wide visa waiver for tour artist . the Secretary of State say early that her Department " work closely with musician " , so what be it actually do to resolve this problem ? I know that my colleague at the Department for Culture , Media and Sport be work hard with our european counterpart to try to ease the difficulty in that area — we recognise it as a problem . many positive thing be happen in current trade with the EU . indeed , in 2022 , the north - west — the hon . Gentleman ' s region — export £ 33 billion - worth of good and £ 24 . 5 billion - worth of service , which be the area he be refer to . the north - west be the third large area in the country for service export to the EU . Market Access to US what progress she have make on improve market access to the US . as part of the atlantic declaration , we launch negotiation on a critical mineral agreement with the US , which will secure market access for a strategically important sector of the UK economy . my Department have secure tariff - free import of UK steel and aluminium into the US , support 80 , 000 job in UK supply chain . we have remove the 25 - year US ban on UK lamb , open the market to 300 million US customer , and have sign five trade and economic development memorandum of understanding with individual US state , which import £ 4 . 6 billion - worth of good from the UK in 2022 , most recently last week with Utah . in their 2019 election manifesto , the Conservatives declare to the british people : " our goal for british trade be … ambitious . we aim to have 80 per cent of UK trade cover by free trade agreement within the next three year , start with the USA " . however , there have be abject failure , with a free trade agreement nowhere in sight , and instead of come clean on their incompetence , laughingly , Tories be now line up to blame the Biden Administration for the lack of progress . will the Secretary of State concede that the Government ' s failure to negotiate an FTA with the USA have potentially lock out british business from vital new market create by the US Inflation Reduction Act ? I be afraid that be not the case at all . if the hon . Gentleman look at the detail of the atlantic declaration , he will see that we be co - operate very closely with the US . on his point about our 2019 manifesto , we do say that that be what we be go to do , because the Administration at the time be willing . this Administration be not . it have nothing to do with the UK . they be not negotiate any fta with any country . that be what the US trade representative have say to I in many meeting , and they have say that to EU counterpart . if what the hon . Gentleman suggest be true , he be basically say that every government should be bind by their predecessor , in which case , should anything happen , he be say that he agree with everything this government be do and nothing should change . what we have negotiate with the atlantic declaration be a success , and he should be praise this government for achieve something so monumental . I draw the House ' s attention to my interest as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to the United States for regional trade and investment . our programme of mou with state in the United States be a major driver of improve market access and trade between the UK and the US . as I embark on a visit to Florida to advance our objective there , will my right hon . friend use this opportunity to reaffirm not just that we want to enter into multiple mou with state in the United States , but that we want british business to step up to the opportunity they create and we want to create the mechanism to allow business - to - business delivery ? absolutely , I can affirm that . my right hon . friend make a very good point about the mou . the opposition would like to present a false story about we not get along with our US counterpart . the fact that so many state , know that their Federal Government be not negotiate an FTA , have decide to step up and negotiate mou with we show that this country be still attract a large amount of investment and co - operation from our international partner . we want british business to be able to take part in that , and we be do everything we can to help they use the mou . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . last week , I be pleased to lead discussion with international partner and business at the Ukraine recovery conference and welcome the Prime Minister of Ukraine and First Deputy Prime Minister to Mansion House , alongside over 150 company , showcase how UK company in our private sector can use their ingenuity and expertise to support the reconstruction of Ukraine . I be very proud to announce that the UK Government have back a £ 26 . 3 million equivalent loan , which be an unprecedented transaction ; the Business Bridge Ukraine platform , match ukrainian business with complementary partner ; the UK - Ukraine tech bridge , to bring together UK and ukrainian tech business to harness opportunity for innovation and collaboration ; and the London conference framework on war risk insurance . recent research by a former chief competition economist to the European Commission — share with I by Unite the union — estimate that average UK mobile phone bill could rise by up to £ 300 a year in the case of a merger between Three and Vodafone . be the Secretary of State aware of that risk , and will her Department be take any action to prevent such a merger , which would be disastrous for competition in the mobile network operator sector ? the hon . Lady will know that we have an independent regulator , the Competition and Markets Authority , which would look at case such as the one she raise and make a call on whether it would be harmful or beneficial to the UK economy . I trust the cma — it have be do a good job so far — and I look forward to see its read - out on forthcoming merger and proposal by large business in our country . Morocco be very much look to do more trade and business with the United Kingdom . what be the Government do to enable that country to do so ? the UK be absolutely committed to enhance trade with Morocco . in 2022 we do about £ 3 . 1 billion - worth of bilateral trade — up nearly 50 % on 2021 — and we be use our association agreement with Morocco to boost that even far . in February I visit Morocco and meet my counterpart to discuss how we can maximise trade , include by tackle barrier in priority area such as education , renewable energy and infrastructure . we be also support british business to take advantage of the significant opportunity in Morocco , include through £ 4 . 5 billion of available finance through the excellent UK Export Finance . I call the shadow Secretary of State . it be now over 12 month since the audit reform Bill be promise in what be then the Queen ' s Speech , and it be over two year since the Business Department ' s final consultation on these matter close . there be widespread agreement on the need for reform , which begin follow the devastating collapse of Carillion five year ago , yet the draft Bill have not even be publish , despite Parliament regularly rise early due to the Government ' s light agenda . do the Secretary of State support reform , and do she accept the recommendation of the Kingman review , the Brydon review and the CMA market study ? if she do , when will we finally see some action ? can I say to the Front Benchers that a lot of member be stand ? these be topical question , which be mean to be short . if you want a long question , come in early , please . help I to help our Back Benchers . we do support reform and be keen to take forward primary legislation when parliamentary time allow . in the meantime , there be measure that we can take through secondary legislation , which we be take forward . we be also look to take forward insolvency reform , which be something else that we commit to do . the Abraham accord have usher in unparalleled opportunity by lower trade barrier in the middle east , so how can my hon . friend maximise the trade potential of the 2030 road map for UK - Israel bilateral relation by engage with the wide region ? through our road map , the UK and Israel reaffirm the historical significance of the Abraham accord — which have the potential to bring about advancement to security , co - existence , peace and prosperity for the region — and our commitment to work together to deepen and expand those development , build on the progress of the Negev summit in March 2022 . through the Britain - israeli investment group , we will also combine UK and israeli expertise to help solve regional technology and sustainability issue right across the world . I call the SNP spokesperson . this week , the European Council adopt the EU ' s free trade agreement with New Zealand , which include dedicated sustainable food system chapter , a dedicated trade and gender equality article , and a provision on trade and fossil fuel subsidy reform . can the Secretary of State explain why our trade deal with New Zealand , if it be so good , fall so far short on those issue ? I think the hon . Gentleman will find that , actually , the trade deal we negotiate with New Zealand make thing cheap for our consumer , not more expensive , it be less protectionist and it be help to improve relation between we and New Zealand . I disagree with his assessment of the EU - New Zealand free trade agreement : we look at it and be actually quite pleased with what we get . I be concerned that the UK be be leave behind on hydrogen internal combustion engine . the EU and the USA be now recognise hydrogen combustion engine as zero emission , but the UK be refuse , which mean that the automotive transformation fund for industrialise the technology be not available . I be work with brilliant company such as BorgWarner in Stonehouse and the Renewable Hydrogen Alliance to raise this issue . I have speak to the Secretary of State for Transport and I be raise it with the Prime Minister ; I hope that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Business and Trade will use her brilliant brain on this matter too . I hope that my hon . friend will allow I to use my brain to help unlock this with the Department for Transport . we have the automotive transformation fund and the Advanced Propulsion Centre , so we be do a huge amount of work in this space to ensure that we be not only on the cutting edge of electric zero - emission vehicle , but look at what the opportunity be for hydrogen . we do not want to be leave behind anywhere in this space , but we do need to align ourselves with the rest of our Departments , and I will do so . the Fresh Produce Consortium , which represent 70 % of the UK ' s fresh produce supply chain , recently warn that post - brexit import charge will hit small and medium - sized enterprise the hard . do the Minister accept that the post - Brexit trade deal be drive up already soar food price , as well as hit small food producer at a time when they be face real difficulty as a result of increase operating cost ? it should be transparently clear that the UK be conduct trade deal that be in the UK ' s economic interest . that be the criterion : we would not do they if they be not in the UK ' s interest . we be therefore work really hard , with a particular focus on opportunity for sme to trade not only with the EU but right around the world , where there be immense opportunity for further trade . we will continue to pursue opportunity in south Asia , Africa and South America — all over the world — where we have not take full advantage of those opportunity . this will benefit many sme , include food and beverage producer , in the long term . over a third of the value of every Airbus sell in the world come from the United Kingdom ' s aerospace manufacturing — whether it be wing , engine , landing gear or other avionic — but all of the Airbus sale be record in international statistic as export from France because the final take - off be from Toulouse . what can the Department do to try to make sure that the value of these export , especially to the fast - grow Asia - Pacific region , be recognise as be partly from the UK ? this be a great opportunity to talk about Airbus ' s 500 - plane deal with indian airline IndiGo . it be the large aviation deal in history , and it have be do on our watch . we be provide the certainty that business need in order to go out and confidently secure such contract . a lot of the job will be in the UK , but I will take away what my hon . Friend say , because we want to be able to show precisely the level of investment in the UK and the number of job that be create by this deal . order . I remind Ministers that they should be speak to I , not to the Back Benches . I welcome the Scottish Government ' s recent announcement that worker ' right will be a key element of a write constitution when Scotland become an independent nation . that be in stark contrast to this place , where this Government have legislate for only seven of the 53 recommendation of the Taylor review . when will they legislate for the other 46 ? we be take forward a number of reform , as the hon . Member be aware . there be a private Member ' s Bill , the Employment Relations ( Flexible Working ) Bill , which include a day - one right to request flexible working , as well as the right to request predictable term and condition , which be one of the recommendation of the Taylor review . I think he should welcome those kind of measure . Kettering be the beat heart of the east midland economy , especially in bespoke gentleman ' s footwear , with superb firm such as Loake , Cheaney , and Gaziano & Girling . will the Government confirm that their free trade agreement and their effort to reduce international trade barrier will help the local shoe industry in Kettering get on the front foot and take great stride forward ? I be delighted to attend my hon . friend ' s business conference in north Northamptonshire . as part of that , we pass the Loake shop in Kettering , which be a world leader in shoe — in fact , I be wear a pair today — and he offer to try to get I a pair at a discount price , which I very much look forward to . there be great export opportunity through that . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . last year it be the energy company ; this year it be the water company . the sector have change but the taxpayer be still on the hook . so will the Secretary of State commit to undertake a review of the financial resilience of all company in each regulated sector and to present her finding to the House ? the hon . Gentleman raise a very good point . he be right that we need to make sure there be resilience across the sector , and I think our regulator be well place to do that . they be carry out a number of review at the moment , and I and colleague across Government be work closely with they . the Secretary of State early tell my hon . friend the Member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) that she do not accept that Brexit be have a negative impact on the scottish seafood industry . it be a bit like say she do not accept that the earth be round — although , admittedly , sometimes people on her Back Benches need to be persuade of that . if she do not think that Brexit be have a negative impact on the scottish seafood industry , do she think it have be positive , or do she think there have not be any change at all ? the hon . Gentleman be entitle to his opinion , as I be entitle to mine . he have do absolutely nothing except try to re - litigate Brexit over and over again . the fact be that we be not go back into the EU . we be use our independent trade policy , negotiate with country around the world and deliver more for the UK as well as for Scotland . scottish business be happy with what we be do , and in particular they be happy that the grown - up in Westminster have stop they make the catastrophic decision that be destroy the internal market . be the Secretary of State aware of just how much influence the Chinese Government and chinese company have on our economy ? be she aware that many time I have ask for an audit of how big that influence be ? do she share the concern of many business in our country that the chinese Government be use subterfuge and espionage to further their interest ? that ' s three question — pick whichever one . I do not think we need an audit . China be our fourth large export market , and we be aware of the economic challenge that it pose across the world . we work with country across the world , but we have a pragmatic relationship with China . we need to use our influence to help they get to a well place , but I take the hon . Gentleman ' s point . [ Official Report , 4 September 2023 , Vol . 737 , c . 2mc . ] how do it help UK Steel to decarbonise , or help the UK to reclaim its position of global leadership in reduce climate emission , to support the opening of a sure - to - be - doom new coalmine in west Cumbria ? I do not think the hon . Gentleman have ever have a positive story to tell about his region , let alone his constituency . we have a positive story on steel , and we have the same challenge as most country in try to deal with decarbonisation . we have issue around energy cost that we have be provide all our advanced manufacturing sector with , and we want to ensure that we diversify our access to different form of energy . go back to Brexit , can the Secretary of State name one scottish sheep farmer who be happy with the Brexit deal , or any seafood producer and exporter that she speak to who be happy with Brexit ? can she name any scottish farming sector that be happy with Brexit ? it be not my job to memorise name of scottish business , and just as I say in response to a previous question , SNP Members be not serious . perhaps if they stand up and actually represent their business in try to make use of all the opportunity we have , they would be in a well place . when it come to increase trade with african country , what step be be take to ensure that increase trade be carry out with company that take human right seriously and be ethically aware in the treatment of their worker ? we be an advocate around the world for human right . that be something that the Government take seriously and discuss across Government , include with trading partner with whom , as I say , we can have frank conversation . through other body and institution , include the work do by the Commonwealth , we continue to have those frank conversation . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . during Question Time this morning , the Minister for Industry and Economic Security , the hon . member for Wealden ( Ms Ghani ) , appear to have be confuse about the nature of oral question . I ask a supplementary question , which be ostensibly a polite request to meet the Minister to discuss matter of importance to my constituent . in her response , she choose to use a pejorative insult — clearly intend to be an insult — and that do not reflect well on the Government . I be a Member of this Parliament , just as any other Member , and I deserve to be able to ask question about the interest of my constituency without that kind of harassment . she accuse I of nationalism , but I suggest that the only nationalism on display be from those Benches — Order . I do not know whether the Minister want to respond . indicate dissent . if not , there be nothing disorderly , and I can not continue the debate . what I can say be that the hon . Member have certainly put his view on the record . business of the House 10 . 33 am will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for next week be as follow : Monday 3 July — Second reading of the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill . Tuesday 4 July — estimate day ( 4th allotted day ) . there will be debate on estimate relate to the Department for Work and Pensions ; and the Ministry of Justice , in so far as it relate to his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service . Wednesday 5 July — estimate day ( 5th allot day ) . there will be debate on estimate relate to the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , in so far as it relate to energy infrastructure ; and the Department for Education , in so far as it relate to adult education , post - 16 education , further education and college . at 7 pm , the House will be ask to agree all outstanding estimate . Thursday 6 July — proceeding on the Supply and Appropriation ( Main Estimates ) ( no . 2 ) bill ; follow by a general debate on build safety and social housing , to mark six year since the Grenfell Tower tragedy ; follow by a motion on the role and status of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association . the subject for those debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 7 July — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 10 July include : Monday 10 July — debate on the first special report of the Committee of Privileges ; follow by remain stage of the Electronic Trade Documents Bill [ Lords ] ; follow by Second Reading of the Northern Ireland Budget ( no . 2 ) Bill . I thank the Leader of the House for announce the forthcoming business . I be glad she have announce that the Government will follow precedent and allow mps to approve the Privileges Committee special report release this morning . its conclusion be clear ; it find that senior Tory parliamentarian take it upon themselves to undermine the procedure of this House , and shamefully that include a serve Minister and a former Leader of the House . the report note that the matter be make more difficult because two of the member mount the most vociferous attack on the Committee do so from the platform of their own host tv show . that undermine democracy and undermine this House . we owe it to the member of the Privileges Committee to give they our support . frankly , it be about time that the Prime Minister show up and show some leadership . if he do not stand up for standard , what do he actually stand for ? I urge this House to endorse the report a week on Monday . that matter , because the public need to be able to trust the system we have . when Ministers mislead the House , whether intentionally or not , and fail to correct the record , or when an MP , a Minister or , bad of all , a serve Prime Minister lie to this House , and thereby to the public , the public need to know that we have proper process for deal with that , which we do . by undermine this Committee , the Members risk undermine democracy itself . as we find out during last week ' s vote , when it come to uphold standard , this Prime Minister stand down . be that what he be plan to do again with this report ? be he really still happy for senior mps in his own party to undermine and attack Britain ' s democratic institution ? be it not time that he personally condemn those who seek to override Parliament ' s standard system to get one of their own off the hook ? we have break news that the plan to send asylum seeker to Rwanda have be rule unlawful . I be sure the Leader of the House be expect I to welcome the long - await impact assessment for that Illegal Migration Bill — I would call it the big migration backlog Bill or , now , the unlawful migration Bill . I use the word " impact assessment " with a heavy dose of irony , as it do not tell we how much the Bill would cost or what the impact of any of its policy would be , so it be not much of an impact assessment , be it ? the Leader of the House have previously describe impact assessment as very handy and most helpful , and I could not agree more . why do the Government wait so long to publish the impact assessment and then publish this one , which be neither handy nor helpful ? be that perhaps why she should not be surprised — nor should any of we — by the break news from the court ? while the current Prime Minister focus on keep Boris Johnson ' s sycophant in his own party happy , introduce new law which by his Government ' s own admission will not work and now seem to have be find illegal , and swerve scrutiny , people up and down the country be leave face the cost of Tory mortgage penalty and soar rent . the Leader of the Opposition , a man of honour and integrity , will restore trust in politic . he will show leadership on the issue that matter to work people and act immediately to bring down the cost of living . may I first put on record my delight at host my Royal Navy squadron , the 2nd Mine Counter Measures Squadron , this week ? I thank all member who come to see and thank they — particularly you , Mr Speaker , and I thank you for address they . I be delighted that this week we announce the consultation on the Oliver McGowan code of practice on statutory learning disability and autism training . I want to place on record my huge respect for the McGowan family , especially Paula McGowan OBE , Oliver ' s mum , for all that she have do to prevent the tragedy that happen to her family from occur to other . I also send my good wish to all celebrate Eid . the hon . Lady raise the matter of the Privileges Committee ' s special report , which be out at 9 am . I hope that the fact that a debate on it be announce in the business statement reassure the House about how seriously the Government take matter of privilege . I reiterate that it be in the House ' s interest that we have such a Committee ; it be there to defend our right and privilege , and it be absolutely vital that member of this House be prepared to serve on such Committees , so we be very happy to bring forward a debate on the report . the hon . Lady mention the break news of the Court of Appeal judgment . it be a mixed judgment , because although what she say about the ruling on the policy be absolutely true , the Court also confirm that Rwanda be a safe third country . this be clearly a matter for the Home Office to update the House on . we respect the Court ' s decision , and I think there will be a statement later today from the Home Secretary on that . the hon . Lady know that I have push department to make sure that impact assessment be publish in a timely way ; they be important . I hope all member of the House will also consider the impact of we not have system that be fit for purpose . we have to direct our finite resource for these matter at the people we need to help . if our asylum system be overload and we be not able to send back people who do not have the right to be here , we be not use the finite resource we have effectively . the hon . Lady mention the cost of living crisis , particularly as it relate to housing cost . I understand how frightening and stressful those cost can be ; it make life incredibly complicated when people have to juggle how they will get through the week . these be very difficult time , and we be determined to ensure that family and individual can get through they . there be unprecedented global challenge that we be have to deal with ; for example , we have to stick to the plan on Ukraine , and not waver in our support . as member will have hear in the Chancellor ' s statement on Monday , we have increase support for mortgage interest scheme , and there be all the other thing that we have do regard provider . there be also the new consumer duty place on the Financial Conduct Authority , and of course there be the £ 94 billion for cost of live support measure . we will do everything that we can to ensure that family get through this difficult time , and further business will be announce in the usual way . on yesterday ' s Order Paper , the first list item of business , subject to urgent question and statement , be the Holocaust Memorial Bill . there be a notice on the Order Paper that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities would make a statement on the estimate cost of the memorial . the statement say , in column 13ws of Hansard , that the House be to be update on the forecast cost " ahead of second reading of the Bill " — [ Official Report , 28 June 2023 ; Vol . 375 , c . 13ws . ] that write statement be not available at the end of Prime Minister ' s question at 12 . 36 . it become available in the Library at 13 . 51 , over an hour and a quarter later . it be not mention by either Minister in the debate on the Bill , and no member of this House know about it . will my right hon . friend say to parliamentary Clerks , if not to the Cabinet , that that be no way to treat this House ? information that be important to the House should be available for a debate , especially as the statement say that the estimate cost of the memorial have go up from £ 102 million to £ 138 million — an increase of over a third in one year . I hope she will agree that that be not the way to treat this place . I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter and for his contribution to the debate yesterday . he will know that I take these matter very seriously . we have stand up some additional training for the parliamentary team and Clerks in Government Departments . we — my noble Friend Lord True and I — have also bring all the permanent secretary over to Parliament and tell they exactly what member need to conduct their business well . he will know that I have also conduct , with the Commission , a survey of all member to see what more we can do to ensure that they can do their job in the most effective way . I will certainly write to the Department and make sure it have hear his remark today , and I will feed it back to the permanent secretary . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Leader of the House for the business and I endorse everything that the shadow Leader of the House say in relation to standard . I would like to begin by pay tribute to former Scotland manager Craig Brown , one of two great scot we lose this week . winifred Margaret Ewing change the course of scottish politic when she win her triumphant by - election victory to this place in Hamilton in 1967 . Winnie have the distinction of serve across three different Parliaments and open the Scottish Parliament in 1999 . there be no one who do more to popularise and internationalise the cause of scottish independence . we will miss she greatly . in Scotland this week , the iconic Caledonian Sleeper rail service be return to public ownership , where it join ScotRail , LNER — London North Eastern Railway — Northern Rail , Southeastern , Transport for Wales and TransPennine Express . although they be often refer to as operator of last resort , experience show that they make excellent operator of first resort . perhaps the conclusion to draw be that some thing just naturally belong in public ownership , like the water industry in Scotland . give the current travail of Thames Water , may I suggest that the Leader of the House make time available for a debate on why the public interest should always take precedence over private profit not only in the rail sector but in the provision of water ? I understand that it be the Leader of the House ' s custom and practice to spend almost as much time respond to what the SNP spokesperson say as criticise public service in Scotland . before she get to that , may I ask that she make time for debate on why six police force in England continue to remain in special measure and why a report publish today show that NHS staff sickness in England have hit a record high , so that we can find out what the Government intend to do about it ? this be the first time that I have have the honour of respond for my party at business question . as much as I be look forward to the Leader of the House ' s response , I be look forward very much to the inevitable YouTube clip that will follow . in victorian time , similarly sensationalist output be often refer to as " penny dreadfuls " . I very much hope that the Leader of the House do not disappoint in that regard . I shall try to rise to the challenge . I thank the hon . gentleman for step in today . may I start by welcome the fantastic export figure that Scotland recently announce ? they be a fantastic tribute to Scotland ' s incredible creative business and producer , and I congratulate they on that . I very much enjoy the hon . Gentleman ' s discuss rail travel in Scotland with no regard to the scottish nationalist Government ' s record on ScotRail . while we be on the topic of transport , I be briefly cheer this week that ferry service — [ interruption . ] no , this be good news . I be cheer that ferry service be be stand up on the Uist route , but then news reach I that , due to demand outstrip availability , anyone in a camper van be not allow to use they . I be sure it be nothing personal . I do not wish to give a long answer , as it would upset the hon . Gentleman and you , Mr Speaker , although I be very sorry that again the SNP have take an enormous amount of time over the past week to discuss independence but not cancer care , drug death , fail education standard , violent crime — at its high since 2014 — or its dismal record on climate change policy . I hope it will get back soon to talk about the issue that constituent be face . this morning , I speak to a national police conference about the police ' s new power , under my marriage and Civil Partnership ( Minimum Age ) Act 2022 , which come into force this year , to tackle child marriage . the school summer holiday be traditionally when many young girl and boy be take abroad to be marry . please could we have a statement about the preparation make to prevent child marriage this summer , include through criminal charge against those seek to arrange such marriage ? may I thank my hon . friend for her continue effort on this very important matter . she will know that our dedicated forced marriage unit help hundred of victim a year and be provide support and advice to anyone in the UK . she will also know that the next Home Office question be on Monday ; I encourage she to raise this matter there , but I will also ensure that the Home Secretary have hear her desire for an update . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for the business statement . the Backbench Business Committee formally agree this week that , if award the time , on Thursday 13 July two debate will be hold on behalf of the Liaison Committee . the subject will be the second report of the Foreign Affairs Committee , " the cost of complacency : illicit finance and the war in Ukraine " , and the third report from the Health and Social Care Committee , " Workforce : recruitment , training and retention in health and social care " . if we be award the time , it be our intention to hold the second Sir David Amess memorial debate , otherwise know as matter to be raise before the forthcoming Adjournment , on the last day before the summer recess . as chair of the all - party group for football supporter , may I express my sympathy for the family of Craig Brown ? he always strike I as a football manager who , in dire circumstance , would keep his head when all around be lose theirs . he be a bastion of football and a manager of great renown for about four decade . I send my sympathy to his family . he be a rock of scottish football . yesterday , at Prime Minister ' s question , I ask the Prime Minister whether he would find time for primary legislation on the scourge of the indeterminate number of youngster — roughly 140 , 000 — who be miss from school altogether in England . the Education Secretary nod when I assert , have be tell by the Minister for Schools , that primary legislation would be require to set up a national register to track those child and first , keep they safe , and secondly , try to get they into education . will the Leader of the House please use her effort in Cabinet to find time for primary legislation for this very important piece of work ? may I join the tribute pay by the hon . Gentleman and the hon . member for Midlothian ( Owen Thompson ) to Craig Brown ? I be sure the whole House would want to join those sentiment . I thank the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) for the helpful advert of forthcoming debate that his Committee be look to schedule . I also thank he for his support and idea about the Westminster Hall sit hour change that we have make this week — all credit to he for that suggestion and innovation . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise this very important issue of so - call ghost child . it be vital that local authority really understand where those child be and whether they be in school setting that be not ofste inspect , as oppose to be home school . I know that the Education Secretary be look at this matter with urgency . I have have discussion with she and her official about it . the hon . Gentleman be right about primary legislation , but we be also look at the datum hold by different Departments to help we get a clear picture now of where those child be . I strongly agree with do something for the child miss from education . may I ask the Leader of the House what the Government can do to assist local authority in get education , health and care plan complete within the 20 - week guideline ? very few local authority — sadly , include mine — be manage to do that . it really matter . I have one primary school where 17 of the 27 child arrive in year r in September have some level of special educational need and disability , and five have statement . there will be a £ 30 , 000 extra cost out of exist budget just for that one class alone . could we please have a statement from the Government , or time to debate this issue , to see what we can do to assist local authority with those challenging issue ? my hon . friend have raise a very important matter . as he will know , we be provide support through reform , but we be provide workforce support as well . we be set up regional expert partnership through the £ 70 million change programme , and in order to increase specialist provision locally we be invest £ 2 . 6 billion in new special school and alternative provision place . that include 33 new special school , with a further 49 in the pipeline . provision be vital , as be ensure that people have access to it . we be also provide an additional 5 , 000 early year special educational need co - ordinator . I shall ensure that the Department for Education know of my hon . friend ' s interest in this vital issue . on 21 February this year , during a Home Office statement on the Plymouth shooting in which we lose five people , the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , say that it would take the Home Office 60 day to reply to the inquest finding , include a report from the coroner on how to avert any further such tragedy . that 60 - day period expire today . we be promise another oral statement and a chance for member to scrutinise the Government ' s response , but that response have be downgrade to a write ministerial statement , which mean that Members of Parliament — include local mp such as I — can not ask question on behalf of the family who be grieve and who want to avert a repeat of this tragedy . when will we have opportunity to bring Home Office Ministers to the House to ask they why they reject so many of the coroner ' s recommendation , which would have make gun law well and safe for all our community so that a tragedy such as the one we see in Plymouth could never be repeat ? the hon . Gentleman have raise a vital matter . public safety be an issue for all of we , but for the family leave grieve in the wake of that terrible event , what he have request will be a key piece of information . he will probably know that a write ministerial statement be publish today , and he will also know that we be invest £ 500 , 000 in a new training programme for police firearm license officer . these matter be important to many member , but particularly to the hon . Gentleman and his colleague in Portsmouth . Home Office question will take place on Monday , and I suggest that he raise this issue then , but give the sensitivity involve the family , I shall also ensure that the Home Secretary have hear what he have say today . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for wetland , and as a lover of WWT Slimbridge , which be in my constituency , I be thrilled to learn that the Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust have secure £ 21 million from Aviva . that be a massive endorsement which will make a huge difference to the creation of , and research on , salt marsh . big business tend to be give a tough time by eco - campaigner , but many company be invest in try to improve the environment . will my right hon . friend agree to look into the work that WWT be do around the country , and would she consider attend some of our parliamentary event , with or without her sword ? I should be very happy to attend some of those event , but it will have to be without my sword , because unfortunately the Tower of London would not let I take it home . I be sure all member agree that my hon . friend should be congratulate , as should those in her local area , on secure this fantastic investment to restore a coastal salt marsh that be key to so many specie . as she will know , through our landmark Environment Act 2021 we have legally bind target to halt and reverse the decline in specie and reduce the risk of their become extinct . these environment and habitat be vital to biodiversity . so I say to my hon . friend , " good on you — well do " , and I shall be happy to help she in any way I can . I call Christine Jardine as the Lib Dem representative . first , I associate myself with the remark that have be make about Craig Brown . in my previous career as a journalist , I be fortunate enough to meet Mr Brown on several occasion . he be a gentleman and our thought be with his family . a recent report by Shelter reveal just how bad homelessness have become in Scotland ' s four main city , with Edinburgh be the bad case . figure show that 5 , 000 people be live in temporary accommodation , include more than 2 , 000 child . that be a tenfold increase since 2002 . give the shortage of financial support from the Scottish Government for local authority and the fact that homelessness be not confine to Scotland , be the Leader of the House willing to set aside time for a debate on how we can kick - start a co - ordinate approach with agency to tackle this grow problem , and on how we can increase the number of social house and the financial support available to local authority ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this important matter . as she know , we have provide more than 2 . 2 million additional home and deliver 632 , 600 affordable home since we come to office . we have also help many people take that step on to the property ladder . however , this be about not just housing supply but a whole raft of challenge that individual and family face , and I know that this be a concern to many member across the House . I be very happy to make sure that the Department have hear her call for time on the Floor of the House , and her plea have also be hear by the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) , who be sit behind she . the Governor of the Bank of England earn more than £ 10 , 000 a week . the Bank make billion of pound in profit from last year ' s catastrophic mini - Budget , and the bonus that be jointly earn by his staff add up to more than £ 23 million . how can he use his lofty position to criticise worker who be struggle to get a pay increase , when pay rise have fall so far behind inflation ? can we have a debate in Government time to discuss this issue and bust the myth that wage be somehow create the inflation problem that we have at the moment ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I shall not rehearse the argument that be make at Prime Minister ' s question yesterday , but pay restraint be an important part of our get through this very difficult time and , in particular , tackle inflation . the next opportunity to question the Treasury team on this matter be not until after recess , so I shall make sure that they have hear his concern . this morning , I speak to a lead figure in the night - time and festival industry . since 2014 , the Home Office have allow drug testing to take place at many festival , potentially save hundred of life . just over a month ago , there be a screeching u - turn from the Home Office that be inexplicable to many festival organiser across the country . we have Glastonbury last weekend and we have many more festival come up across the rest of the summer . for I , harm reduction have to be the focal point when organise those fantastic musical event . I would like a debate in Government time that get to the bottom of that inexplicable Home Office u - turn , because in prior time the Home Office sanction this activity take place on site at festival , with Home Office brand . in fact , it have even permit Greater Manchester police and Avon and Somerset police to allow this stuff to take place , as well as have their own forensic early warning system in place , so that people can participate and make adult , inform choice about what they be and be not go to do in a much safe way . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and I know that this be of concern to other member . our position on this issue have not change : drug testing provider must have a licence to test for control drug , include at festival . we have always have that condition in place and we have make that clear , and law enforcement have always have a responsibility to uphold that legal requirement . we have not receive any application for drug testing at major festival this summer , and we continue to keep an open dialogue with any potential applicant . he will know that Home Office question be on Monday , so he may wish to pursue the matter with the Department . my norwegian constituent have make her life here with her scottish husband and their son . she should be welcome , but she have to win she right to residence via the court . six month on , her life be in limbo because the Home Office have not issue a biometric residence permit , which be prevent she from work , from access healthcare and from leave the country . can we have a statement on Home Office timescale for issue residence permit ? what can be do to expedite matter for my constituent , whose lawyer say this be the bad delay he have ever encounter ? I be sorry to hear about that unfortunate case . the hon . Gentleman will know , because I have advertise it many time — include , I think , to he — that the Home Office be offer surgery and bespoke service to all member , either face - to - face or remotely . he will know that Home Office question be on Monday , and I encourage he to raise this matter with the Home Secretary and her Ministers . I preface my remark by say that I completely appreciate how busy minister be and the workload they carry , which be why I have never before raise such a concern in Parliament . on Sunday , there be a demonstration by detainee at Harmondsworth detention centre in my constituency . I email the relevant Minister on the various email account that be available to we , and I simply want to know what be happen . I be concern about the welfare of the detainee and staff , many of whom be my constituent , and I receive no response on Sunday . I think that , in the normal run of thing , we would have have either an oral or write statement on Monday , as we have have in the past . nothing happen , so we contact the Minister ' s office again . nothing happen on Tuesday , so we contact the office again , and no response . as you know , Mr Speaker , I also seek to raise the matter in the House on Tuesday , but other business understandably take precedence . I contact the Minister ' s office on Wednesday and basically say that , if I have not hear anything by noon , I would be raise a point of order . twenty minute before noon , I receive a reply , which be inaccurate . I understand how busy people be , but this be just unacceptable behaviour when I have constituent and other contact I about this incident . there be continue problem , so I ask the Leader of the House , first , to raise this with the Ministers concerned and say that this behaviour be not acceptable . secondly , I would welcome a debate in the House on what be happen at Harmondsworth , because there be continue concern about the welfare of both detainee and staff , and this have continue year after year without resolution . I be sorry to hear about the right hon . Gentleman ' s experience . when there be particular incident and situation , it be important that member be able to get hold of the relevant people quickly , whether that be official or Ministers . if he could take the trouble to send I an email with the detail of what happen , I would be very happy to raise it with the Department . I support the Leader of the House , and I be very concerned . where a Member see a serious incident in their constituency , I think duty Ministers be available 24 hour a day . if the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) be unhappy , he should come back to I . I will be support the Leader of the House to ensure that member be treat with the respect they be due . we should make sure minister be accountable on serious incident . I add my condolence to the family of Winnie Ewing and Craig Brown . Scotland have lose two legend , of politic and football , this week . the Immigration Minister ' s answer to my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) on Tuesday draw a pretty furious response from the Scottish Refugee Council , among other . the Minister say that " the SNP do not house refugee in Scotland . " — [ Official Report , 27 June 2023 ; Vol . 735 , c . 152 . ] the truth be that Scotland have house more syrian and ukrainian refugee per head than his own government . moreover , the large hotel for asylum seeker in the UK be in my constituency . this need to stop . Mr Speaker , when you and your deputy be ask about the accuracy of a ministerial response , you rightly say it be not a matter for the Chair . may I therefore ask the Leader of the House for a debate on change the Standing Orders of this House so that we can make Ministers more accountable for the answer they give at the Dispatch Box ? that be a timely question , because the Procedure Committee have just produce a report on " correct the record " . its recommendation be that the obligation on Ministers should be extend to all member of this House . we take these matter very seriously . it be clear that if incorrect information have be give to the House — I do not know the detail of the particular matter the hon . Gentleman raise — the record should be correct , and in my experience that be what minister do . I recently meet a group of resident who live in a new build block that have a heat network . that mean that they can not access the domestic energy market and be not protect by the price cap , which lead to extortionate cost . More than 50 % of London ' s 200 , 000 home supply by heat network be social housing , mean that some of the poor Londoners have be subject to uncapped bill . may we please have a debate on what can be do to protect those user from the wildly fluctuate energy market ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this issue . I encourage she to attend the next question session for the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , which be next Tuesday , and raise it there . that Department be also run surgery because of the complexity of the issue and the casework that hon . member be deal with in relation to the energy market and scheme such as the one she outline . I encourage she to sit down with official and have that bespoke surgery with they . this weekend , Bury football club have its first outing , away at Thackley , since it go into administration in 2020 . as this be such a pivotal moment in the club ' s history , will the Leader of the House join I in wish Bury FC the good of luck for its first new season ? will she also pay tribute to the fan and volunteer who have work tirelessly to make this happen ? up the Shakers ! I think you want to add , " can we have a statement or a debate ? " . I know that all member of this House take great interest in ensure that our wonderful football club survive and thrive . as someone who be a shareholder in Portsmouth football club and see it through the large and fast ever community buy - out , I know how difficult that can be . I take my hat off to all the volunteer who have keep Bury FC go and keep it play , and I wish it all the luck at the weekend . our language constantly evolve , with new word come into common usage . unfortunately , myocarditis be just such a word ; very few of we would even have hear of it barely two year ago . when will the Government look into the reason behind the explosion in case of myocarditis , especially among the young , particularly give that this week evidence have emerge that it be affect some new - bear baby ? may we have a statement and an urgent debate on this issue ? I encourage the hon . gentleman to raise this issue with the Department of Health and Social Care . he will know that the next question to the Secretary of State and his team be on 11 July . they will have in the Department people look at particular therapy area and they will also have good oversight of what research be take place , whether in academia , research institution or the third sector . be the Leader of the House aware that more than 40 year ago the Daily Mail , I believe it be , say that the Father of the House , the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , and I be road safety nut because we lead the campaign for seatbelt legislation ? all these year later , we have succeed in save many , many life . however , there be evidence that some people be no long obey the seatbelt legislation as well as they could and that child be be kill . be she aware that the World Health Organisation say last week that the big killer of child and young people worldwide be not disease , but death on the road ? will she help we by enable a debate in Government time about how we can help , worldwide , to stop this killing of child ? I thank the hon . gentleman for all the work he do on those issue . as I know from my International Development Department day , he be right that road traffic accident be one of the big killer and cause of trauma around the world . it be important to remind people of their obligation under the law and that such measure be a very good idea . I congratulate he on all he have do to secure those law . I add my condolence to the family of Winnie Ewing and Craig Brown . I thank the Leader of the House for her commitment and her dedication to ensure that there be proxy voting in this House . have have a recent issue of a dangerous dog in Milngavie , East Dunbartonshire , which attack and kill another dog , will the Leader of the House prioritise animal welfare and make Government time for the recently drop Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill ? I thank the hon . Lady for what she say about the proxy voting scheme . I thank she for the effort that she have take to ensure that the scheme be available to Members and their vote can be secure , and for share her experience in the debate lead up to the scheme come to fruition . on her question , several hon . member have raise the matter of the escalate number of attack . the hon . Lady will know that we be committed to the measure in the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , but we will be bring they forward in a different way , and I will announce that in the usual way . one thing that unite rural community be our concern about access to medical service , which often challenge we . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on overnight medical cover in rural community ? from August , the out - of - hour provider of GP service in Cumbria have choose to get rid of the on - call clinician at the Westmorland General Hospital in Kendal between 2 am and 8 am on Tuesdays , Wednesdays and Thursdays . that will mean that people in medical need in our community will need to wait for a clinician , if one be even available , to travel from Barrow - in - Furness or Penrith , up to an hour far away . today we have launch a campaign to fight that cut , but should Parliament not protect vulnerable people in rural community from damaging decision such as that ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that important matter . he will know that the next health question be on 11 July and he can raise the issue then . I reassure he that the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , be focus on all aspect of rural life , as demonstrate in her recent report , so he may also wish to raise the matter with she . sarcoma be cancer that can affect any part of the body , inside or outside , include muscle , bone , tendon , blood vessel and fatty tissue . Sarcoma be rare ; 15 people be diagnose every day in the UK , but that be still around 5 , 300 people a year , include family in Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney . Awareness of sarcoma be low , which limit the funding available for research . will the Leader of the House facilitate a debate so that the House can raise awareness of sarcoma , which will undoubtedly help the vital need for research funding go forward ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise awareness of the issue . he will know that the work we have do since we take office in 2010 , not only at the Department of Health and Social Care but with the Minister for Life Sciences , have involve share intellectual property , enable smart people around the world to work on these problem and collectively arrive at great innovation fast . that be vital to create innovation and ensure that our NHS can take up new treatment and fast diagnostic . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the subject . on 2 August , it will be the 50th anniversary of the Summerland fire disaster on the Isle of Man . it be a terrible tragedy in which 50 people lose their life , include family member of my constituent and of other Members ’ constituent . I be astonish to learn that the House have never debate that terrible tragedy , so I try to secure a debate in Westminster Hall next week , when the relevant Department will be respond , but I be unsuccessful . I will apply for an Adjournment debate , but if that be not possible , will the Leader of the House give we some time before the recess to debate the matter ? it be important that we get matter on the record before the 50th anniversary . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on get that matter on the record today . I know that it will mean a great deal to his constituent that he have do so and that he be do everything he need to do to secure a debate . there will be further opportunity for he to raise the matter , but I shall make sure that the relevant Department have hear what he have say today . my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) and I have write twice to the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) , request an urgent meeting with he , and table early - day motion 1283 regard the imminent closure of Park View Medical Centre in my constituency of Liverpool , West Derby . [ that this House note with deep concern the propose closure of the Park View Medical Centre ; note that the medical centre be locate in Tuebrook in the constituency of Liverpool West Derby and also provide GP service to many constituent of Liverpool Wavertree ; recognise that the medical centre have be at the centre of the community for decade and provide vital primary care service to constituent in one of the most deprived area of Liverpool ; note with alarm that the Liverpool Integrated Care Board have write to all patient at the practice to inform they that it will be close in July and that all patient will be transfer to GP practice within 1 mile radius of the building ; place on record that local resident have voice their strong opposition to the closure of Park View Medical centre and be campaign to save this vital service ; note that the Members for Liverpool West Derby and Liverpool Wavertree have write to Cheshire and Merseyside ICB to ask that they revisit the decision to close Park View Medical Centre with the upmost urgency and to request meaningful discussion to consider the urgent step that can be take to save the service and protect its long - term future ; and call on the Department of Health to support the wish of the local community and to take all step available to keep the Park View Medical Centre open to protect the health and wellbeing of the whole community and future generation . ] the whole community be furious with the decision by the integrate care board and they be call on the Government to assist . will the Leader of the House make Government time for a debate on the impact of primary care service closure and make representation to the Minister concern to respond urgently to our letter , so that Park View can be save for the long - term health and wellbeing of all of my community ? these local service be obviously very important . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will know how much they mean to his constituent . he can raise his concern directly with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care on 11 July , but one thing that the Secretary of State be do be ensure that we have additional datum on the performance of the hon . Gentleman ' s integrate care board so that he can benchmark it against other across the country . have medical centre that people can access and that be in their local community be vital for good patient outcome , and that be a big step forward that the Secretary of State have make . I be concern about the desperate condition of the son of my constituent , Mr Omar , who be unable to collect their visa and passport from the embassy in Sudan owe to the war in April , since when they have manage to travel to Ethiopia . after a very long and difficult journey , they be malnourished , out of money , in need of medical treatment and have be wait for two week for a visa vignette . I have be tell repeatedly that there be no timescale for the issuing of that . will the Leader of the House please ask the Home Secretary to make an urgent intervention in this case and make a statement to give we a timescale for future such case ? I be very sorry to hear about the case that the hon . Gentleman raise . he will know that we have Home Office question on Monday . however , follow this session , I shall make sure that he have the contact detail of the Home Office official who be oversee these bespoke surgery for Members . I encourage he to set up such a meeting today . " bless be the cheesemaker . " that may be so , but export cheese from the south - west have become more challenging in recent year . Barber ' s farm be a 191 - year - old business . it claim to be the world ' s old family cheddar cheese maker and be base in Ditcheat , between Somerton and Frome . on export , it say that it have become " a paperwork nightmare that can lead to cheese and chill food stick at port everywhere . " please can we have a debate in Government time to ensure that west country farmer and producer can more easily export their dairy product ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that important matter . he will know that our export be the high since record begin . the export support service and the other scheme that be run by the Department for Business and Trade be offer bespoke support to business . I have make use of that in my own constituency . official from those service may visit that business or have a remote call with it to take it through how they can assist . whether it be by find the business an agent or help it with particular element of bureaucracy , it be a very effective service and I have to say that it have dramatically increase export in my constituency , so I encourage he to do that . in the past month , more than 230 church have be burn , at least 64 Christians have be kill , and 10 , 000 people have be displace in the indian state of Manipur in violence against the Kuki - Zomi tribal people . the scale of this violence be vast and , because of internet blackout , it be very difficult to know the true extent of what be happen ; the figure that I have give be conservative estimate only . as the Leader of the House represent all of we in this House to the good of her ability , will she convey our concern about the risk of atrocity crime in this region and ask the appropriate Minister to write to I explain the step that be be take to help de - escalate this very critical situation ? I thank the hon . Gentleman again for raise the plight of people who often do not have the spotlight shone on what they be have to endure . I will certainly make sure the relevant Minister have hear his concern and ask they to write to he with an update on the situation . he will know that we remain committed to defend freedom of religion or belief and to promote respect and tolerance between community . I thank the Leader of the House for respond to question for almost an hour . Bills present Northern Ireland Budget ( no . 2 ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Heaton - Harris , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary Michael Gove , Secretary Alister Jack , Secretary David T C Davis , John Glen and Mr Steve Baker , present a Bill to authorise the use for the public service of certain resource for the year end 31 March 2024 ( include income ) ; to authorise the issue out of the Consolidated Fund of Northern Ireland of certain sum for the service of that year ; to authorise the use of those sum for specified purpose ; to authorise the Department of Finance in Northern Ireland to borrow on the credit of those sum ; and to repeal a spend provision . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time Monday 3 July , and to be print ( Bill 338 ) . Thames Water ( Public Benefit Corporation ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Tim Farron , support by Sarah Olney and Munira Wilson , present a Bill to establish a new model of company structure for Thames Water , to be call a public benefit corporation ; to require that public benefit corporation to consider public policy benefit , include reduce leak and sewage dumping , as well as return for shareholder ; to limit the payment of dividend until a plan be in place to cut the corporation ' s debt ; and to require membership of the corporation ' s board to include representative of local environment group . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 339 ) . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act and measure : Shark Fins Act 2023 Co - operative , Mutuals and Friendly Societies Act 2023 Child Support Collection ( Domestic Abuse ) Act 2023 Offenders ( Day of Release from Detention ) Act 2023 Supported Housing ( Regulatory Oversight ) Act 2023 British Nationality ( Regularisation of Past Practice ) Act 2023 Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 Diocesan Stipends Funds ( Amendment ) Measure 2023 Backbench Business Fishing Industry I beg to move , that this House have consider the fishing industry . I start by congratulate and thank the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , who secure this important debate . unfortunately , he have have to go back to Scotland on compassionate ground ; I be sure the whole House will wish he well . fishery , as I be sure everyone in this House know by now , loom reasonably large in my constituency , as they do for other take part in this debate . peterhead , the large town in Aberdeenshire , be also the large whitefish port in Europe , while Fraserburgh , Aberdeenshire ' s third large town , be Europe ' s large port for nephrop . Macduff , the other port town around the coast , be still a very active port , as well as be the headquarters for Macduff Shipyards , the only manufacturer of steel hull fishing boat in Scotland , with additional facility in Fraserburgh and the town of Buckie in the neighbouring constituency , Moray . dot around the rest of the Banff and Buchan and Moray coast , like the rest of our island nation , we have small port , small boat and small operation — but they be no less a part of the wide fishing industry that have be a mainstay of coastal community for century . also locate in those major port town be a wide variety of seafood processor . the subject of this debate be the fishing industry , but I will speak on the wide concept of fishery as a whole . it be not just about catch the fish ; we be talk about the whole supply chain and , as with any food supply chain , if one part fail , the whole chain lose out . I have touch on the manufacture of fishing boat , but there be a wide range of business and job that depend on a thrive fishery sector . I remember a fisherman once inform I , when his boat be in for summer maintenance that year , that he have something like 40 different business , most of they local , work on his boat . I will not list all 40 contractor — he do — but only one be not from north - east Scotland : the guy who have to come and install his Sky box . that just go to show how one boat can employ so many people in the local area . town such as Peterhead and Fraserburgh exist largely to serve the fishery sector . there be all the other business , shop , community service and public facility that exist to provide for all the people who work in that industry and the family who live in the community . there be a lot of economic activity in those port town , but as with all industry and community , particularly in the light of event of recent year , such as the pandemic and the rise in fuel price since the russian invasion of Ukraine , they be not without their challenge . other member will , I know , talk more specifically about the issue face in their constituency . I will touch on a few key topic . I will talk about Brexit , the pro and con of the trade and co - operation agreement , and what I believe to be a general benefit overall of leave the EU and the common fishery policy . I will also talk about a range of challenge face by the industry . like everyone else , I will focus mainly on the challenge face in my constituency , but there will be general concern that many of we share . I will intersperse my remark with question for the Minister and her Department . if they can be answer today , great , but if not , a later response or meeting will suffice . I will start with Brexit . we have leave the common fishery policy and be an independent coastal state . it seem strange to still be stand up and say that , because it be a fundamental part of have leave the EU , and , now that we have reach that status , it be a complete and utter no - brainer . however , it be by no mean inevitable . at the very start of the negotiation on withdrawal from the EU — many of we in the Chamber bear the scar of that period — the EU chief negotiator , Michel Barnier , insist that the UK could not leave the CFP and that EU fishing vessel must retain full freedom of access to UK water . but we do leave the EU on 31 December 2020 , and we leave the CFP and take our place as an independent coastal state . under the term of the trade and co - operation agreement , which Opposition Members have gleefully predict could not be reach , we leave the EU with a deal — a deal that Scottish National party Members do not even vote for . one major disappointment of the tca , however , be the introduction of the so - call adjustment period , which we be still in the middle of . it be important to note that that it be aim at help the EU fishery sector adjust before the day when that period come to an end in July 2026 , and to stress that full control over all vessel fish in UK water must fall to UK Ministers and official , include those in the devolved administration . my first question to the Minister on this be : what be the Government do in the meantime to ensure that , when July 2026 come around , the most be make of those opportunity for british fishing interest , include what the industry would regard as " first call " on quota ? the hon . Gentleman mention the situation post 2026 . I wonder whether he can respond to the point make by Mike Park , the chief executive of the Fraserburgh - base Scottish White Fish Producers Association , who tell the Daily Record last week : " one of the big negative for I be the hyperbole speak by the Michael Goves , the David Frosts , the Boris Johnsons , who all know what be go on and they be still spin it and spin it . and they ' re still spin it because , here we be , they ' re still talk about how post - 2026 , they will deliver . no , you win ' t . go and read the Trade and Cooperation Agreement . Europe still get the same amount of fish after 2026 . " be he correct ? I be glad that the hon . Gentleman mention Mr Park , whom I know extremely well . I be familiar with that Daily Record article , which be from , I think , last Monday . it be the first in a series of " why Brexit be bad " article . if I be not mistaken — and I stand to be correct — that quote from Mr Park be not necessarily all that up to date . I talk to Mr Park on a — [ interruption . ] the article be last week , but I be not sure the quote be that recent ; I stand to be correct on that . opposition member be good at pull out quote from the like of Mike Park , Jimmy Buchan and other key individual in the industry who be well respected in it , but I talk to they on almost a weekly basis , and I know one thing for sure : neither Mike Park , Jimmy Buchan nor any of those other would agree with the SNP ' s stance of rejoin the EU and the common fishery policy . on Mr Park ' s remark about what happen in 2026 , that be precisely why I be ask the UK Government to confirm what they be do now , to ensure that when we get to that point , we be not catch out by any surprise . we can be sure that the EU fishery lobby group will be push hard to get all the advantage , so we need to ensure that we be do the same . I have always acknowledge the disappointment feel by many in the industry that the trade and co - operation agreement , especially with the adjustment period , do not get as much as we want as quickly as we would have like . over the course of the adjustment period , 25 % of the EU ' s fishing quota in UK water will be transfer to the UK . for 2023 , 140 , 000 tonne of catch opportunity worth some £ 750 million have be secure for the UK . that be a £ 34 million increase on last year . as an independent coastal state , our Ministers and official and those in the devolved administration have a far strong voice in those annual negotiation than they ever would have have as merely one of 28 member state of the EU . I apologise for interrupt my hon . friend , because he be make an excellent speech , but in case he be not go to mention it — I be sure he be — may I point he to the specialise trade committee within the trade and co - operation agreement , which be there for sanitary and phytosanitary measure and for fishery and will allow we to put on to the agenda issue that we be concern about in our relationship with France ? do he agree that we must use those specialise trade committee ? I totally agree . I would like to say that my hon . friend have the foresight of predict something I be go to say in my comment , but I be not , so I be grateful that he bring that up , because he be correct . we now have control over our own fishery regulation and management system . of course , we can not apply regulation on vessel come into our water that do not equally apply to our vessel , but that be fine ; that be how agreement between independent coastal state operate . the fact that we will get our own water back in a phase way may well be necessary , because we need more boat and we need to attract people into the industry . one of the weakness we have be that it be a hard life be a fisherman , and many people do not want to go into the industry . sadly , my hon . friend make a valid point . fishing , like farming or go offshore and work on an oil rig , be not for everyone ; it be a hard life and a hard job . in many way , we need to have grow up around it or be bear into it . it be a generational thing . I will come back to that point later in my remark , if my hon . friend can be patient . while we be under the control of the common fishery policy , decision making always feel distant and impose on our fishing industry from afar . fishery management be now manage more locally , with fishery management plan run by local management group to provide a formal and regular forum for engagement between fisherman , policymaker , scientist and regulator , not just for the good and the prosperity of the industry but for sustainability as well . I have welcome the fact that funding have be maintain , with £ 37 million be provide to replace the european maritime and fishery fund , about £ 16 million of which go directly to the Scottish Government to spend on fishery and maritime issue . the £ 100 million UK seafood fund , which have also be welcome , have be split between the topic of science and innovation , infrastructure , skill and training , and promotion of export , which be a key element . can the Minister tell we what plan there be to help fund domestic marketing ? she may be aware of the issue face by those catch and supply small haddock , for example , which be not traditionally an export specie . how can the Government help to either promote more haddock consumption across the UK or open up new export market for that fantastic product ? I would also be interested to know what discussion the Department have have with Seafish , which I be tell make a commercial decision last year to no long promote seafood in the UK , prefer to focus on those grow export market . I think everyone here would agree on the merit of fish as a high - quality , high - protein source of food with a relatively low carbon footprint . on the subject of export , I acknowledge that not every seafood exporter be fully ready to deal with the new export system when they come into place immediately after we leave the EU . I should also stress that many exporter — usually those who be already accustomed to export outside the european economic area — be ready to go with those new system . the border operating model have go through a few revision , but have be available since it be roll out in July the previous year . funding and support have also be provide to impact industry to help they prepare for the inevitability of the new system . that include funding to devolve administration : for example , some £ 180 million be provide to the Scottish Government , which sadly I do not think be adequately apply to help exporter in Scotland . I also do not think the SNP Scottish Government help the preparedness of our seafood exporter . I respect the view of the SNP as a political party that it do not want to leave the EU , but leave the EU we do , and it be something that we have to be prepare for . it be also fair to acknowledge that even those exporter who have do everything right , who be accustom to export around the world and get their paperwork system in place , sadly fall foul of some of those IT system crash through no fault of their own . as such , I ask the Minister what assessment her Department have make of those export system , and what improvement — for example , digitalisation and other time - save method — remain to be implement . I will now move on to the subject of spatial squeeze . before the hon . Gentleman move off the subject of Brexit and fish processor , he have talk about mitigation , for example . do he now admit that for fish processor and those export , Brexit have be a negative , not a positive ? I go back to the response I give to the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) . in the last few minute , I have acknowledge the challenge that leave the EU have bring , but also the mitigation that have be put in place . ultimately , though , the fishing industry and the seafood processing sector in my constituency do not have an appetite to return to the EU and the common fishery policy . I take on board that there have be challenge , but as Elspeth Macdonald of the Scottish Fishermen ' s Federation say , whether we be talk about Brexit , access to labour or access to export , those issue all pale into insignificance compare with the impact that covid have , for example , and certainly the impact of the highly protect marine area , which I will also talk about . spatial squeeze be bring about by less and less of our sea be available for commercial fishing . that can be for a number of reason , such as offshore wind or the imposition of the marine conservation area I have just mention . neither I nor the fishing industry be against renewable energy or marine conservation in principle , but it be worry to read last year ' s combine report from the Scottish Fishermen ' s Federation and the National Federation of Fishermen ' s Organisations , which predict that almost 50 % of water could be restrict for fish by 2050 , compare with less than 1 % in the year 2000 . I realise that there be some special interest group out there that would quite happily see the demise of the fishing industry for various ideological reason , but I have already mention the huge impact that that could have , not just on the industry but on coastal community as a whole . on offshore wind and other renewable project , all the industry be ask be to be at the table when planning decision be be make — to be in the loop . I have see that happen to reasonably good effect between the industry and some offshore wind developer , but sadly , that be not universal . similarly , on marine conservation , fisherman just want to be adequately consult on not just on where but how , and even if , measure such as hpma should be apply . I can not overstate how important it be to get that engagement right . in Scotland , the SNP and Green Scottish Government be in the process of implement those hpma without adequate engagement or even a pilot scheme , not even wait to see how the pilot scheme that be currently be carry out in english water turn out . I completely agree with Elspeth Macdonald , chief executive of the SFF , who say yesterday : " nobody care more about our marine environment than those who be dependent upon it for their livelihood — from fisherman to salmon farmer to fish processor . opposition to this policy , which lack scientific rationale , be widespread throughout our coastal community . the scottish government need to scrap it , not rebrand it , and carry out a complete rethink without pander to the Greens whose desire to halt legitimate economic activity with a low carbon footprint be dangerous and damaging . " do the hon . member agree with his Prime Minister , who have say : " I be committed to introduce pilot of Highly Protected Marine Areas in english water , provide the high level of protection for our sea , and safeguard the 372 Marine Protected Areas " ? yes — it be a manifesto commitment . [ interruption . ] no , this get raise time and again . when my MSP colleague raise it in Holyrood , SNP Members shout about how the UK Government be do it and it be in the conservative manifesto , but there be some major difference . at the moment , the UK Government be propose 0 . 53 % of english water to be cover by hpma , while the Scottish Government be look for 10 % , which be 20 time as much . not only that , but the Scottish Government only have the power to implement those hpma within the 12 - mile nautical zone , so fishing could in effect be ban in a huge area of our fishing water . again , I go back to the point , make not just by I but by those in the industry , about how the policy lack a scientific rationale and be just be push through for ideological reason . I appreciate that the Scottish Government be due to make a statement in the next hour or so on their response to the consultation , and I eagerly look forward to hear it . do my hon . friend agree that the way the Scottish Government be deal with this will have a disproportionate adverse effect on small vessel , because they be unable to migrate to other area ? my hon . friend , as always , make an absolutely valid point . there be all different size of operation , as I say early , and if one area be close off to one particular group of fisherman in one community , it be much more difficult for small - scale fisherman in small boat to migrate to somewhere else to catch fish . another challenge face by the sector be access to labour , as my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Sir Robert Syms ) mention . I know the Minister will be aware of this , but I reiterate that the catch sector be keen to work with the Government on it . for example , it welcome the addition of offshore deck crew to the skilled worker immigration route in April 2021 and , more recently , the addition of fishing crew to the shortage occupation list . one remain stumble block , however , be the standard of the write english test . the industry can find plenty of skilled worker who meet the requirement of the immigration system , but sadly not in the number require with the ability to meet the b1 english language test . I be already in discussion with the Home Office on this , as be other right hon . and hon . member , with a request to reduce the english language standard — specifically for those fisherman who come in and out of the country on a rotational basis , with no desire to settle — from b1 to A2 , which the industry believe be a far more appropriate level for the requirement of that job . I guess the question for the Minister be : can she help emphasise and reinforce this need with the Immigration Minister ? in the processing sector , the need be different . again , I have already engage with the Home Office , ask that the facilitative support that the Home Secretary have offer to the catch sector be extend to the processing sector , and that the seasonal agricultural worker scheme be extend to include onshore seafood processing job of a seasonal nature . unlike the ten of thousand of SAWS visa that have already be announce for agriculture , horticulture and some other food processing sector , the seafood processing sector be only look for a few hundred , or a couple of thousand at most . the ultimate aim be of course to use as many local worker as possible , but as my hon . friend the Member for Poole have point out , this be a generational issue , and it will take time to build enthusiasm in our local community for people to get into the fishing industry again . I will bring my comment to an end . I be go to say something about the Maritime and Coastguard Agency ' s plan to introduce medical certificate , but when I look around , I see at least three hon . member who will make more of that point than I can . if I can make one last request of the Minister , will she meet I and arrange to meet stakeholder from the Banff and Buchan fishery sector to work through some of these issue ? she would , of course , be welcome in my constituency at any time . I be very pleased to have the opportunity to speak in this debate on the fishing industry . Fiona SD 144 , Seaforth HL 111 , Sophie Leigh HL 9 , Rockhopper of Percuel HL 138 , Aura HL 294 , Constant Friend bh 212 and Equity TH 377 be just some of the fishing vessel either sell or for sale from just one port in the north - east — Hartlepool — and there be many more along that coastline . the inshore fishing industry off much of the north - east coast be decimate two year ago , follow the still unresolved mystery that lead to the wipe out of the crustacean population . sadly , today it be little well . before I get into the detail of what need to happen next , I wish to share with the House what have happen and be happen in fishing community , particularly those in Hartlepool , Redcar and Whitby . James Cole be chair of Whitby Commercial Fishing Association , which represent 20 - plus small to medium - scale potting boat from Whitby and Staithes in north Yorkshire . he report a huge reduction in catch in recent year and say : " our main concern be the 90 % — " ninety per cent ! — " reduction in brown crab catch , and very little velvet crab to be see either . invasive speech like starfish and whelk have take over the die - off zone ground . " he add that figure from the Whitby and Scarborough harbour office show a big drop in revenue from local boat . in the reporting first quarter of the year , Scarborough ' s shellfish landing be down by 87 . 5 % , and Whitby landing by 93 % . it be clear , however , that a very different picture be be paint by the North Eastern Inshore Fisheries and Conservation Authority , which have appear to claim that catch be robust . but the catch figure it rely on totally distort the reality face inshore fishing community . the catch report include those from so - call " super crabber " , which operate not inshore but 90 mile off the coast , and do not land catch in our area . one , MV Margilis , operate just 12 mile off our coast , plunder the sea life and give it no time to replenish itself in the inshore area . the Government , include the Secretary of State , have rely on those figure to deny any form of compensation to the inshore fisher , and claim of assistance be available have be misleading . I have advise the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Jill Mortimer ) that I intend to mention she in my speech , because she be one of those who have also rely on those figure . the hon . member be be take to task by the North East Fishing Collective , which issue a statement say : " it be with utter dismay and bewilderment that we find ourselves have to clarify the current situation for those concern in order to have full transparency around the current issue that the fleet face … it have be state by the MP for Hartlepool that ' prawner have experience a temporary but significant reduction in their catch due to prawn burrow into sand and move away from usual catch area . ' she also state that ' the prawn and catch return . . . but fisherman lose some valuable week of fishing . ' … whilst our MP may have speak to some individual , she have not speak to the majority of the skipper in the fleet who be suffer indescribable hardship and lack of catch on the local prawn ground where they have make their living all of their work life . these individual have spend their career fish within the die - off zone and have first - hand experience which should have be collect and share with the Minister of State at DEFRA in order to give a fair and accurate account for all involve . " it be all the more important that accurate datum be provide by Government agency to spare member of Parliament the embarrassment of make wholly inaccurate statement . a recent example be report by fisher ' leader Stan Rennie . on 25 May he steam north from Hartlepool for nearly two hour , and shoot seven fleet of trammel net from hawthorn to nose ' s Point near Seaham , up to 4 mile offshore . on 26 May he collect 4 kg of cod , eight edible crab , three lobster weigh just 2 kg between they , and three monkfish . he say that instead of lot of crab and lobster , there be just starfish and brittle star , which have take over the barren ground . the other fisher report similar result , but many be now out of business . I be so aware that the Government have abandon our north - east inshore fisher , and the Government ' s capital investment in new boat or upgrade equipment for the fisher be useless in an environment where there be little , if anything , to catch . go back to the boat sell or for sale at Hartlepool , half the potting fleet have be sell or be for sale , as be a third of the prawner — all since the disaster of two year ago . it be time for the Government to look again at compensate our inshore fisher . we have hear in the past about the fishery and seafood scheme to help fisher , but the Minister know , as I do , that it be there not to keep people in business , but to invest in the future . sadly , many do not have a present , never mind a future . we all know that for our fishing industry not just to survive but to thrive , we need a healthy sea , which we certainly do not have off large part of the north - east coast . we can argue until there be no boat leave over the cause of the devastation that ruin so many life . the Minister ' s own independent scientific group could not determine what happen off the Tees , and reach the conclusion that it be probably some sort of pathogen — not the algae bloom that Ministers have depend on for month on end — but they simply do not know what happen . they could form an opinion only from the evidence provide to they , and they would have have no information about the deadly mix of contaminant be dispose of at sea . in May I write to the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , try to look to the future and seek more comprehensive testing of the sea and sea life as it struggle to make a comeback in the north - east . I tell he of my meeting with one of his independent scientist and the need to ensure that the Centre for Environment , Fisheries and Aquaculture Science and the Environment Agency provide an inventory of all remain available sample from the original event of October 2021 and June 2022 , so that scientist could conduct further analysis of the die - off . I be advise that know where all the sample be , what they be of and how they be collect and preserve would aid reteste for a broad range of potential pathogen . that be essentially to recommend that the sample be archive for future study by academic . we also discuss the need for regular monitoring . I be rather surprised to hear there be anecdotal evidence of some very young crab be spot on the rock at Saltburn , near Redcar . it be perhaps a sign of life return , or maybe just a one - off . we do not know , because no monitoring of consequence be now take place . I say in my letter that the Minister and I should agree that there be a need for consistent , rigorous scientific survey of the recovery process to be establish through an ongoing monitoring programme . the scientist mention evidence , for example , from post on social medium , of new recruitment of juvenile decapod in the affected area , but that be no substitute at all for an ongoing programme to monitor the area ' s recovery in a scientifically robust manner . that be critical to ensure that recovery continue to progress as would be expect , and it would provide datum on the post - impact effect of the removal of a significant component of the ecosystem . I tell the Minister that we can not stop there . ongoing monitoring effort should also include a full suite of measure of environmental sample , as well as full faunal survey . environmental sample should include measurement of seabed oxygen level , temperature and chemical contaminant in water and sediment . faunal survey that be spatially and temporally comparable and consistent should include target sampling of fauna to assess for disease . any sample should be collect and preserve in a manner that will enable the full suite of analysis , include molecular screening , to be undertake by the crustacean disease expert at cefa . despite the ongoing devastation of the sea and sea life , sadly the Minister be not prepared to do anything for the north - east beyond the monthly water monitoring by the Environment Agency , which be do everywhere . he say that CEFAS will test the dredge material disposal site this year on behalf of the Marine Management Organisation . that be simply not good enough . if there be failure to monitor emerge life on an ongoing basis , nothing will be do to nurture it . the Minister should know that fisher , environmentalist , and the public on the north - east coast will not give up press for action , or show up the Government for their inaction . other continue to look for solution ; I be pleased to hear that a university be adopt artificial intelligence model use by the Norwegians to predict the effect of combine multiple contaminant at sea — a huge step forward from the UK approach of deal with each contaminant in isolation . early result be quite shocking . I hope that when we get further information , the Government will sit up and take notice . the cocktail of material dump from the Tees area may impact not just sea life but human . I wonder what role those material have play in local beach lose their long - stand blue flag status . in conclusion , I ask the Minister to review the Department ' s approach to the affected area again , and to go beyond the routine testing regime that be outlined to I . I ask she to recognise that fisher and the supply chain continue to suffer . if they be not already out of business , they soon will be , unless we do something about this . I ask she to commit to work with university and other on monitor sea life over coming year , and to give we hope for a bright future . I declare an interest as chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on fishery , and should make the House aware that for decade , I have have a very strong connection with the UK fishing industry . I wish to speak on a few matter face today by UK fisher — although I use that term , I understand that woman who work aboard fishing vessel often prefer to describe themselves as fisherman . first , I will raise the matter of the ever - increase competition for access to water around our island . fisherman face continual displacement from large area of sea due to vast offshore wind farm , and area be designate as some form of marine protect area . those designation be often make without any real consultation with the industry or its representative . please do not take that to mean that fisherman do not care about the marine environment or our energy security . however , we must ensure that all people be include in discussion about the use of our sea . by work together and listen to all voice , I be sure that we can manage the use of our water in a way that work for everyone concern , while protect our valuable maritime water for the future . the report , " Spatial Squeeze in Fisheries " , jointly commission by the National Federation of Fishermen ' s Organisations and the Scottish Fishermen ' s Federation , conclude : " the ability of the fishing industry to continue to produce healthy protein and contribute to food security and coastal community depend on its future viability . this in turn will require close collaboration and cooperation with other sector that be increase their spatial footprint in the marine area , to ensure that such development and nature conservation restriction occur in a way that be compatible with the continuation of fishing activity and the viability of fishing business . " have the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , or the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , my right hon . friend the Member for Sherwood ( Mark Spencer ) , have any discussion with fishing organisation about the report and its conclusion ? turn to the 2026 negotiation , in January this year , the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries be before the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , of which I be a member . he state that conversation with the EU have not yet start , but that his ambition be to secure the good possible deal for the UK . could my hon . friend confirm that that ambition will at least be for sole access that UK fisherman currently have inside the six - mile limit , and that it will be extend out to 12 mile or the median line ? I thank my hon . friend for allow I to intervene ; she be make an excellent point . do she agree with the former DEFRA Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , who write in Fishing News about the need for we to ensure that foreign vessel follow our regulation within our six to 12 - mile limit ? I agree with what she be ask for , but it be also essential that , if it be equipment , net size or anything else , foreign vessel should follow those rule in our water , which they currently do not . I completely agree that all conservation measure that be set for UK fisherman should also apply to other member state ' vessel and that they should be enforce . a further matter I wish to raise concern the implication for the fishing industry of the " work in fishing " convention 2007 , which result from the International Labour Organisation conference of May 2007 . I accept that this be not within my hon . friend the Minister ' s portfolio , but I ask she to urgently speak to the shipping Minister about the requirement for fisherman to have a medical carry out by a gp . the draconian measure be introduce will prevent fisherman and fisherwoman go to sea if they do not have a medical by November this year . I can understand why that be necessary on large vessel , where operation be similar to those of other large merchant vessel , but to apply the requirement to small inshore fishing vessel be in my opinion an unnecessary and unacceptable expense . do the hon . Lady agree that the way that the regulation have be implement have cause enormous stress and anxiety to an industry that already feel that regulation do not apply to they properly ? the catch app and the roll - out of I - VMS — inshore vessel monitoring — have cause real distress to the sector . do she far agree that the death we have see at sea have come not from poor health , but from vessel instability and the lack of lifejacket be wear , and that Ministers should focus on where the risk be and where the experience be rather than go after a form of regulation that be just cause anxiety to our fisher ? I do agree with the hon . Gentleman . I will come on to express my personal experience on that . furthermore , it place a disproportionate financial burden on small inshore fishing vessel . article 10 , paragraph 2 of convention C188 provide for exemption from the requirement on the basis of " size of the vessel , availability of medical assistance and evacuation , duration of the voyage , area of operation , and type of fishing operation . " sadly , all those have be ignore by the Department for Transport . the shipping Minister have allegedly refuse to engage with industry representative , and , indeed , refuse to listen to cross - party mp when we meet last week . some be here today . as someone whose fisherman husband pay the ultimate sacrifice while strive to bring this valuable source of protein to our table , I fully support sensible safety measure be introduce . indeed , work with the previous shipping Minister — I have tell he I will mention he — my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) , we be able to successfully find grant funding for the voluntary introduction of safety stop button for deck equipment aboard fishing vessel . I will be forever grateful to he for assist I with that positive measure . however , fisherman do not need to prove their fitness to undertake their occupation . I know from 24 and a half year of be married to a commercial small boat skipper - owner that fisherman be simply not as stupid as the Maritime and Coastguard Agency would have we believe . my late husband suffer a heart attack and be stop from fish for a number of week while he recover . he could not go back to sea until the Regional Fisheries Group be happy that he be medically fit to return . why should he have have to undergo an unnecessary medical ? I look at the incident report on the Marine Accident Investigation Branch website , because they be all there . as far as I can see , there be no occasion when a medical condition be identify as a cause of an accident . even our Royal Navy personnel , who must comply with specific fitness test periodically , do not need a regular medical certificate from their GP . this be just another in a long line of complaint that I have receive about the way that the MCA cause financial hardship and stress to the fishing fleet , which remain very close to my heart . I end with the case of a 15 - metre trawler base in Cornwall , primarily fish out of Newlyn , and partly own by one of my constituent . it suffer a catastrophic main engine failure on 19 April while steam back to the Newlyn harbour from its fishing ground , and be safely tow in by another vessel . the vessel underwent inspection by a local marine engineer , who deem the engine beyond economic repair , result in the need for a replacement engine . current regulation set by the MCA state that the company would have to replace the current engine , which be class as tier 1 , with a tier 3 engine that comply with emission standard in place for new vessel . the company appreciate the reasoning behind the regulation and the need to reduce emission , but it be not always practical give the supply chain timeframe for such purchase and delivery of tier 3 engine , especially in emergency circumstance where there have be unexpected engine failure . the engine must be swiftly replace to get the vessel operate , back at sea and make an income rather than be out of action for around half a year . the MCA offer a process to request exemption from have to install a tier 3 engine , which the owner submit with good reason for their request and ask to install a tier 2 engine , which would allow the vessel to return to sea and ensure that the business remain viable . unfortunately , the exemption request be reject by the MCA , which leave the business in a very precarious position . the MCA offer the option of a temporary dispensation , which would allow the installation of a tier 2 engine until a compliant unit become available . however , that be not financially viable , as the total cost be likely to exceed £ 100 , 000 in machinery alone , exclude additional liability and lose time at sea for two engine installation . I thank the Minister and the Fisheries Minister , the right hon . member for Sherwood , for their support for our fishing industry . I welcome the Fisheries Minister ' s comment and commitment , but I be ask that he speak to his colleague at the Department for Transport to ensure that it match that support . at the moment that Department appear very uncaring and with an attitude towards the industry — which be vital to the food security of our country — that could almost be describe as contempt . it be a pleasure to speak in a debate on fishing . I do not believe there have be a fishing debate in this Chamber or in Westminster Hall that I have not participate in — some might say that I participate in most debate , but that be by the way . I be particularly interested in the fishing sector , as I represent the fishing village of Portavogie , where fishing be really important . I also represent in this House the fishing village of Ardglass and Kilkeel , because the Member who represent that constituency do not attend this place and thereby abdicate his responsibility to his constituent on fishing issue in this House , where decision be make , case be put forward and representation can make a difference . I commend the hon . member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) on his introduction , detail and contribution , which set the scene so well for we all to follow and , perhaps , add to in a small way . I be interested in fishing because when I arrive at Ards council for the first time in 1985 — I also represent Strangford in the Assembly — fishing be key to our economic life in Strangford . I also know many people who be crew on the fishing boat in Portavogie , my brother be one of they . I could never really understand the courage of those who want to be fishing crew , because on my visit to the boat in Portavogie it become clear right away how dangerous and claustrophobic the atmosphere be . fishing be important . it deliver to the economy and it give opportunity and job in my constituency . with the recent negative economic news , and have see the UK economy buffet by force that , for a large part , be outside of our control , it would be easy to feel pessimistic and downbeat about the future . but I come here not with grievance about what can not be control or tale of pessimism , but with genuine optimism and some recommendation on how , if we make the most of the factor inside our control , we can deliver not a bleak but a bright future for our fishing industry . the hon . member for Banff and Buchan try to look at the optimistic side . he refer to challenge — which there be — but it be about how we overcome the challenge . that be the way to look at it in this debate , as the hon . Gentleman refer to , and I back he up . I know that the hon . member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) will make similar comment about the fishing crew , and other probably will , too . like we , the Minister will be well brief on the problem with crewing , so we be well serve to focus on the solution , as I often try to do in this House . whatever the issue , I always try to be solution - focused , and I want other member to do the same in this debate . the Fishermen ' s Welfare Alliance propose that the reading and write element of the skilled visa language requirement be adjust from b1 to A2 . that be not a big request — it be tactical more than anything else — but it enable the fishing sector not just in my constituency but in that of the hon . member for Banff and Buchan and for Totnes , and across the whole United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , to make fishing viable and add to economic life . I underline that . it will help those in Portavogie , Ardglass and Kilkeel and we all . that level well match the standard of the highly skilled international fisherman who already form an integral and value part of our fishing industry . that adjustment of the standard would be time - limit for the individual , to protect the integrity of the skilled visa system . the immigration Minister have say that he be prepared to consider that option . I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word and for some excellent point . he refer to the Westminster Hall debate that we have with the immigration Minister , which be positive and encouraging , and look to the future . do he agree that the migrant worker come to his constituency be generally not look to settle here in the UK ? the immigration Minister himself say that the english language test have to be b1 because it be see as a route to settlement , but if we could distinguish a non - route to settlement version of that visa , A2 would be more than enough . the hon . Gentleman have clarify the matter . I hope that the Minister , although she do not have sole responsibility for this , can illustrate and take forward our thought . I usually meet the fisherman from eastern Europe and Africa who work in Portavogie on every second Saturday in the month , when I give advice session down at the harbour . they have make it very clear that they do not want to stay here ; they want to go home . what we be ask for will not have an undue impact on the visa system . it be a really simple arrangement which I think will assist what the immigration department be try to do . the english language requirement can be adjust from b1 to A2 . the solution lie entirely within the Government ' s gift . it will hasten the adoption of skilled visa within the industry , and will give fishing vessel owner the business stability that they need to plan and invest in their own future . may I ask the Minister — whom we all respect greatly , and who always respond positively to our request — to take this positive action , and throw defra ' s full weight behind this proposal ? it help when there be consensus in the House , and I be convinced that there will be consensus today . other , I be sure , will make that clear as well . the second issue that I want to raise be every bit as important as the first . in recent year , we have see fisherman across the UK lose access to prime fishing ground to make way for the offshore energy industry and environmentally protect area . that affect my fisherman back home because there be plan for wind farm just off the Antrim coast , where some of their fishing ground be . we should always remember that fisherman be the original environmentalist , and few of they will deny that our natural habitat need stewardship , or that the decarbonisation of energy production be as important an aspiration for our society as it be for they . indeed , we have see Government policy for the management of the marine space reflect just how important it be . I would argue , however , that our food security be every bit as important . if recent global event have teach we anything , it be that the cheap food we have enjoy up until now be not something that can be take for grant . during Business and Trade question this morning , Members refer to food price increase of some 20 % , which have make family purchase very difficult . we know that area where fishing and energy production co - exist successfully be the exception rather than the rule . in most instance , such co - existence be impossible . overlapping fishing with environmentally protect area can be problematic , and that be a shame . research commission by the Northern Ireland Fishermen ' s Federation show that our northern Irish wild - catch prawn have a carbon footprint one third the size of that of the farm , south - east asian prawn favour by UK supermarket , so we should buy the home - produce one and reduce the net carbon impact . I be not say that we should not buy from the rest of the world , but if we want to do the right thing for our fisherman while also reduce carbon emission , we should buy local — buy from Portavogie , buy from Ardglass , buy from Kilkeel , and yes , buy from the whole of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland collectively . accord to one scientist from the Agri - Food and Biosciences Institute , the harmful emission from harvest Northern Ireland prawn be an order of magnitude below those from other UK animal protein . fishing be clearly not without its own environmental or carbon reduction merit , but , notwithstanding the food security that it support , it be all too often treat as the poor relation in marine spatial management . will the Minister support the fishing industry in its drive to produce healthy , affordable and environmentally responsible food by ensure that food production area be give their rightful significance and importance in the designation and allocation of marine space ? that , too , be entirely within the Government ' s power . the third issue lie somewhat close to home . the renegotiation of UK - EU fishing opportunity and access draw close . the ability to access our traditional fishery in Irish EU water be a formally submit priority for Northern Ireland during the 2020 negotiation , but I have subsequently be tell that the UK side — I say this respectfully — do not even put the matter on the table . how disappointing . we can imagine how it look to Northern Ireland fisherman when they see that the UK allow inshore access to some french boat , but do nothing to help our own . I ask the Minister to ensure that the Government do not allow Northern Ireland fisherman to be let down twice . once be a mistake , but twice would be deliberate . can the Minister assure we that in the upcoming negotiation , and notwithstanding the Voisinage agreement , any access to UK inshore water for EU vessel should be part of a reciprocal arrangement allow Northern Ireland fisherman access to their traditional fishery in EU water ? this mean so much to those fisherman in Portavogie , Ardglass and Kilkeel whom I speak for in the House , and for whom other will speak just as strongly and passionately . let I end by return to my first point about optimism . it be so important to be optimistic , to be " glass half - full " and focus on solution . there be a bright future for our industry , and one that can be deliver by fishing business throughout this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , but if that be to happen , we need the Government to grip those matter that lie in their control . that can be do in three way : by help the industry to make the most of the skilled visa system through the small technical change that can make such a difference to the future , by recognise the importance of food security and protect food production area , and by use the upcoming renegotiation of fishing opportunity as a chance to set right the problem cause by the old system . therein lie our very bright future . it be a pleasure to be able to speak in the debate . may I start by say how sorry I be not to see the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) in his place ? he have be a strong voice on this topic ; he have a fund of knowledge and understanding of the sector , and he always add great weight to the subject . may I also say what a pleasure it be to follow the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) ? he be an ever - present and , indeed , continual voice in every debate on the subject , and it be helpful to have a UK - wide perspective on how we can help the sector . I be the treasurer of the all - party group for shellfish aquaculture , which be chair by my hon . friend the Member for Barrow and Furness ( Simon Fell ) . we have have great success over the last few month in push the aquaculture sector , and I be particularly grateful to colleague on both side of the House who have join our group . I will focus my remark on both aquaculture and fishing , and on some of the problem that be face by the sector , and I will end by , hopefully , reinforce my view that there be huge opportunity in the sector that be yet to be recognise and yet to be seize . we need to talk more about the sector in this place , and to discuss how we can build it up throughout the United Kingdom . my first point be about Pacific oyster . those of we who have they in our coastal water — I recognise that that do not constitute the whole United Kingdom — will know that they be incredibly prevalent , incredibly productive and incredibly delicious . unfortunately , however , DEFRA ' s present position , which be a historical one , be that they be invasive and therefore should not be cultivate . I see my hon . friend the Member for South East Cornwall ( Mrs Murray ) shake her head , because the situation be different in Cornwall , and I be speak from a Devon perspective . before my hon . friend intervene and tell I I be wrong , let I make this point . we need to look at the area where Pacific oyster be be empower and be grow at an alarming rate because of climate change and rise water temperature rise , and we need to think of way in which we can utilise that and improve food security . if , for instance , DEFRA be to change its policy from invasive to naturalised , business would be able to harvest they , sell they , and grow the market . as a result of DEFRA ' s word on this subject , both landowner and the Duchy of Cornwall be now restrict the licence of those who be currently operate in my area . three local firm be about to go out of business because they can not renew their contract . this very easy line change would help our market across the UK . if we look at the sheer economic of the sector , we see that France outperform we by about tenfold in this area , so there be money to be make and business to be create in coastal community . the second thing that have be particularly damaging for the aquaculture sector have be water quality . around 80 % of shellfish - harvesting water in the UK do not meet the standard class a requirement for export . the confusion about whether we could still export from class b water when we leave the European Union have only compound the problem . we need a well conversation about how we will allow aquaculture business to be set up and create and whether we can do that in highly protect marine area . not a single chemical be pour on live bivalve mollusc , Pacific oyster , razor clam or scallop . where they be grow and harvest , they help to enhance marine biodiversity . if we can get this right , we will find a way to make highly protect marine area all the more productive in improve marine biodiversity . the third area be what we do in relation to EU trade flow , and my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) have make that point . the class b problem have restrict many business . I know that DEFRA have move already in term of go beneath the 53 ° line across the United Kingdom , where business can export and where we recognise new area as class a , but we have to think about how we test . the UK write the rule in the European Union on how to test our water , but we be perhaps the most stringent in employ they and we perform it in the strict manner . the French , dutch and Germans all test their water use our rule but to a less standard , and the right of appeal be not there in the UK . do my hon . friend agree that this be yet another example of the UK Government gold - plate legislation unnecessarily ? I could not fail to agree with my hon . friend ; she be absolutely right . we have to look at how we can make the law that we have pass work . this be not about lower standard or look at how we can put people ' s health at risk . it be about make sure that we can work with business and give they certainty . there be an extraordinary business call Offshore Shellfish that operate out of Brixham , with its harvest water in Lyme bay . it be constantly at risk of a poor rating that would see it put out of business for a year . a business simply can not operate on that basis , so we must look at review those appeal . I know that CEFAS have work with the FSA on this issue , but any impetus from the Minister would be incredibly helpful to get that across the line . a change will cost no money . it will create business , job , opportunity and a fantastic , sustainable source of food . I have in front of I the figure in comparison with France . the UK produce 0 . 9 tonne per kilometre of coastline whereas the equivalent figure in France be 17 . 3 tonne . that be the scale of the disadvantage that we have and show what we could achieve across our coastal water and coastline . indeed , that would help to level up in coastal community . fisherman ' s medical certificate have be mention several time . there be not a single person in the Chamber who want any lowering of standard or safety for fisherman . we understand not only how difficult fishing be , but the risk that go with it . we be ask the Government to look at put in an exemption so that there be not the medical certificate requirement for vessel under 10 metre . there be already a law in place — regulation 14 — to allow an exemption . I have to say , Minister — I hope this do not come across as pompous — that we have a meeting with a Minister from the Department for Transport , and I have never hear a Minister speak with such contempt of this sector . to just say that this will automatically be implement without consultation be — I be sorry to be so candid about it — a very shoddy way to treat a sector that need our support . do my hon . friend agree that that Minister do not seem to have a grasp of the marine accident investigation branch report that be available ? it be very clear that she have not look at they to see whether there be evidence to introduce this legislation . my hon . friend be absolutely right , and she be far more diplomatic than I be during the meeting , which probably mean that her career in the Foreign Office be likely to be far great than mine . I table a question in the House on this subject to ask how many people in the past four year have die at sea or have a serious injury from a medical condition . the response be that not a single one of the death or emergency response be down to a medical condition ; they be down to poor practice and poor equipment . we be put in legislation that cause huge horror and difficulty . we must think about why we put in such thing . if we want to change the practice and make sure that it be safe on vessel , let we do that and we will work hand in glove with people . however , to think that this will not impact small boat owner and small inshore fisherman on our coastal water be just nuts . the hon . Gentleman make that point exceptionally well and echo some of the concern and argument of the Welsh Fishermen ' s Association . he mention the lack of evidence . do that not perhaps reflect the fact that those who draft the regulation foresee the potential for exempt small vessel by give the Secretary of State the power to do so ? the hon . Gentleman make the point perfectly . if the exemption be there , let we use it . it take nothing other than the Minister stand at the Dispatch Box to say that regulation 14 will be use . I get the sense that there may be some cross - party support on this issue . I be in that meeting as well . I do not wish to add to the piling on of that Minister , but there be a point to make about how regulation should be implement , and there be a real problem with how this particular regulation be be implement . do the hon . Member agree that the way to build trust with the sector , which feel put on and over - regulated , be for the MCA , the dft and possibly DEFRA to ensure that there be renew trust between they and the sector ? the absence of trust will not deliver the regulatory outcome that the Minister want and will only far corrode the already tense relationship between the fishing industry — especially those use small boat — and those who seek to regulate they . the hon . Gentleman make a fantastic point . communication be key . we be not try to overload the sector . we want to make sure that we take all the step in the right way , but that mean that organisation such as the MCA and DEFRA have to be very clear and concise . I say this to the Minister , and I be sure that the Fisheries Minister be watch : they have be proactive in engage with we and very clear about this , so this be not I have a dig at they . I be sorry to take up so much of my hon . friend ' s time . as someone whose husband suffer a fatal accident aboard his under 10 metre fishing vessel , I can honestly say that when his toggle catch in the net drum of his boat , no medical certificate issue by his GP would have prevent that . do my hon . friend agree ? I absolutely agree . as ever , my hon . Friend add huge weight and knowledge to the debate on this topic . I hope that official and Ministers across all Departments be listen to the point that we be make . I be take up far too much time , but I will just make three other quick point . I should also mention that my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) can not be in this debate but want to emphasise that her view on medical certificate be very much align with those that have be express across the House . another concern about the fishing sector relate to the I - VMS — the inshore vessel monitoring system . that have be a difficult programme to roll out . we have to ensure that the MMO have learn from the shamble of the type approval process and do not repeat that . as the hon . member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) say , the MMO have to be open and transparent and must communicate in full with fisherman and the fishing community . that bring I on to the catch app . I be perfectly willing and happy to accept that modern technology have a place in how we fish and farm , and that we must use it to our full advantage , but the app be still not functional . People still can not enter some port location or specie or differentiate between male and female crab . the computer literacy and , indeed , connectivity in some place across this country be of hugely vary quality , so there need to be a bit of understanding . I have see fisherman in my community suddenly be issue with non - compliance letter many month after the alleged incident happen . that only add to the stress of those in a sector that be really under the cosh at the moment and which need more support . the catch app and the type verification for I - VMS be two good example of over - burdensome regulation . the threat of criminality if someone can not successfully weigh a fish — within 10 % of its weight — while at sea without marine scale seem to be home - grow , massively over - burdensome and costly red tape that create additional stress . do the hon . Member agree that there must be a well way of do this to ensure that fisher can be take with the government when they change the law , not pitch against they ? yes . where we have see huge progress be that the Fisheries Minister have be extremely proactive on this . I hope I be not speak for he when I say he have tell I that he agree with the point we be make . it be about how the MCA be put this in and regulate it . we have to make sure that what we say in this Chamber and what be be say in Departments be translate through to the organisation that enforce it . if we get that right , we can suddenly do all the thing that the hon . member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport and Conservative Members be say . we have speak a little about Brexit . there be huge opportunity outside the common fishery policy , and Brixham in my constituency be a fantastic example of a fishing port that have have record sale since 2021 . in 2021 , it sell £ 43 million , in 2022 it sell £ 60 million , this year it be on course to sell £ 63 million and next year it be forecast £ 67 million . by 2027 , it expect to top £ 100 million - worth of sale . Brixham prepare for Brexit , and it be take advantage of it . new boat be come on line and be build , and the Government ' s capital allowance be a huge support to the sector . do not think we be be doom and gloom about the sector ; it be about ensure that we recognise the difficulty of gold - plate legislation , rule and regulation and try to unlock they to make it easy and simple , and about ensure that we really talk up the sector . we need to talk a lot more about food security in this country , and we need to talk about how we can be more self - sustainable . our coastal water offer that opportunity . we must make sure that , when we come back with the three - yearly report on food security , fishing and aqua - culture be fully embed to help we answer the call for well food security and well local food on our plate . it be a privilege to speak on behalf of the fishing community in my constituency and to know that so many colleague on both side of the House share similar view . the liberal Democrats would typically be represent in this debate by my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , who have decade of experience represent fisherman and the fishing industry , whereas I have represent the town of Beer for merely a year . none the less , I will make a few comment that seek to represent the small fishing fleet of Beer . I will specifically comment on the trade and co - operation agreement with the European Union , access to labour and , finally , a level playing field for british fisherman and their competitor . we have hear that the TCA with the European Union will be revisit in 2026 . fishing lobby group have tell I that they be disappoint by the TCA ' s first iteration , which be a bit of an understatement . I have hear other describe it as something of a betrayal . we hear in advance of 2016 that , as an independent coastal state , the UK might expect to have exclusive access to the 12 nautical mile zone and that we might have protect inshore fishery . instead , we have quota share that still do not reflect the fishery resource locate within the UK ' s exclusive economic zone . EU vessel may catch up to 40 , 000 tonne of non - quota specie in UK water , whereas UK fleet be allow to catch only 12 , 000 tonne in EU water . the hon . Gentleman be use the statistic well , but can he tell I how many of his fisherman from Beer operate in the 6 to 12 mile limit , or on the other side of the median line in the channel ? I do not know . I be also speak about the UK fishing industry as a whole . it be not only the small number of fishery base in Beer but the whole sector that have an interest and a stake in this . I be interested in the hon . Gentleman ' s speech and in how he wrestle with his party ' s position of rejoin the European Union and go back into the common fishery policy . surely that would end up with we share far more quota and see far more boat in our water . I be happy to give way to the hon . Gentleman , but I will not have he make straw - man argument that misrepresent my party ' s policy . however , I agree with he that the standard that apply to EU vessel fish in UK water must also apply to UK vessel fish in UK water . there must be equal treatment of UK and EU vessel . he be exactly right that have high standard for UK fisherman be deter the UK fishing industry and could potentially put fisherman out of business . I think the hon . Gentleman be a little confused . at the moment , the UK Government set the conservation measure for all vessel operate within the zero to 12 - mile limit . between 6 and 12 mile , some member state ' vessel can come in and operate in our water in a limited way . he say that regulation that apply to EU vessel must apply to UK vessel , but I think my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) be say that what be impose on UK vessel must also be impose on EU vessel . I agree with the hon . Lady . I be simply agree with the hon . member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) about have a level playing field for UK and EU vessel fish in the same water . I will return to that point a little later . as with many industry , fishing face difficulty in recruit new worker . the medium have tend to focus their comment on the use of foreign worker to fill the gap . overseas worker definitely have a role to play , although that role have perhaps be exaggerated , because around 20 % of fisherman work on UK boat be non - uk citizen . the proportion be high in Scotland and Northern Ireland , which be why my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland have make so much of that point . commendable effort have be make in the south - west to increase domestic recruitment , and I pay particular tribute to the South western Fish Producer Organisation and South Devon College . I congratulate they on develop a fishing apprenticeship that be now take on its first recruit . add fishery worker to the shortage occupation list be a commendable step , and it be make the skilled visa route much easy to follow , but the difficulty identify by the hon . member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) in the write English requirement be right . these barrier need not be impose . we understand that a level of verbal English - language proficiency be require , but impose write requirement on people who do not need to write in the course of their job just add pointless expense and delay to their recruitment . I acknowledge and thank the hon . gentleman for agree with my point . I also acknowledge , in his absence , the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) who , along with I and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , have be a strong advocate for the process of not just get cheap foreign labour but help the Government to facilitate that process . I thank the hon . gentleman for point that out . there be a little irony in how british boat fish in the 6 to 12 - mile zone be unable to employ foreign worker , yet overseas worker routinely make up a large proportion of the crew of EU vessel that work alongside those boat . there be one other sense in which british commercial fisherman be not compete on a level playing field with EU commercial fisherman and our competitor have a competitive advantage over our fisherman . to make this point , I will quote directly from what I have be tell by a constituent who live in Seaton but whose son be a commercial fisherman who own a trawler base in Brixham . she write : " they work all over and last week the boat fuel bill be nearly twelve thousand pound for one trip . many fisherman be struggle to pay fuel cost and unfortunately a lot will go under as a result . France be subside fuel cost for their fishing fleet . as usual , our fisherman be receive no support whatsoever from their own government . these be good , hardworke man Richard who risk their life at sea everyday in order to feed the nation . most work throughout the pandemic without any fuss and with very little thank . they deserve help from our government to help with fuel cost . if they don ' t get some help , many will lose their livelihood . " her comment — I apologise for interrupting , but as that person be operate in my constituency , I ask the hon . Gentleman to tell they to get in touch . secondly , we must also recognise what the Government have do through offer funding for retrofitting vessel to make they green and reduce their fuel price , and through the fishery and seafood scheme . a significant amount of money be available . it might not be a fuel subsidy , but we have do a great deal to help the sector reduce its emission and the fuel it need to use . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . be the hon . Gentleman aware that the duty on marine gas oil can be reclaim , so this be not the same as buy petrol at a pump ? fisherman can reclaim the duty on their marine gas oil if they operate a commercial fishing vessel . do he know that ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for that . I do not know whether the fisherman in question know that , but I can be sure to pass it on to my constituent . the overriding point , aside from the specific of fuel to which she refer , be that we need equality of esteem for UK and EU vessel that be fish in UK water . frankly , there be some people in this iconic industry who feel that in 2015 - 16 some of the argument make in relation to fishing be duplicitous and that some fisherman be sell a pup . Poole be the second large natural harbour in the world and it have a long history of fishing , particularly in the north Atlantic . indeed , the Dorset accent can sometimes be pick up in the Newfoundland accent , because so many people from Dorset end up go to that part of Canada . we no long fish that distance , but we still have a live fishing industry , mainly now in under 12 metre boat . there be a great opportunity for fishing , because of our come out of the EU and be able to catch more catch . this do require investment and persuade people to go into what be a hard living if they be to make it a success . I recently hold a meeting , organise by Lyn Bourne , at the Poole fisherman ' s dock . it be with a number of fisherman , include Mark Goulding , the skipper of Golden Girl PE1130 . they be all a bit depressed , because they feel that we have come out of the EU and yet the various agency be bring in regulation that ought not to be apply to they . those regulation be make their job more difficult and , in some case , unviable . they express to I in clear term that many of they feel , " the Government do not want we to continue fish , otherwise why on earth would they be bring in all these regulation ? " I say that that be not true and that we want a vibrant and successful fishing industry . however , a number of thing be land on they that I do not think they particularly expect . we ought to be do all we can to keep people in the fishing industry , for reason that many people in this debate have express . it be a potential growth industry and it be important , not least because of the " tail " create by fisherman , with all the other business fishing support . it be easy to drive around Poole and see that the marine industry employ significantly more people in total than just fisherman , include those in various engineering and supply company . so we want to do what we can to keep the industry go . a number of point be make at that meeting . they have be raise in today ' s debate , but I will repeat some of they . those fisherman feel that the regulation be unfair and that they be be push out of their livelihood ; the MCA vessel survey and medical be very much to the fore in this . the catch - up be mention a moment ago , and it require solo fisherman , as many of these people be , to control their boat safely on the return to the harbour , while measure catch and fill in thing on smartphone app , often with wet hand , on a rolling boat , in the dark . a further requirement be for all fisherman to have medical fitness assessment , five - yearly up to the age of 65 and then annually , which of course be an additional cost . on the medical , many on the inshore fishing fleet never go over the horizon , yet they be require to pass test require of those on offshore large ship . lifetime fisherman be be warn that they may lose their livelihood because of minor diabetes , colour blindness or weight . a doctor ' s decision from a 30 - minute consultation could leave they without an income and with no right of appeal . that be a concern to they . they also see that the MMO acknowledge that there ought to be grand - father right but do not spell out what that mean . so there be a degree of pessimism among many of the small fisherman in Poole about what be go on . my hon . friend be make some excellent point , some of which have , as he admit , be make already . he mention diabete as one of the condition that would stop somebody from go out fishing in a small boat . do he agree with the chief executive of the Scottish Fishermen ' s Federation , Elspeth Macdonald , who ask , " how can a long - distance lorry driver drive down a motorway at 50 or 60 mph with those precise same condition , yet someone with they could not go out on a small boat within 6 to 12 mile ? " ? that be a good point ; there be an element of gold - plate here . my hon . friend the Member for South East Cornwall ( Mrs Murray ) , who chair the all - party group on fishery , make some important point about how we seem to be try to solve a problem where there be not really one . this be rather like the british disease where member of a club start get excited when one start talk about the rule . minister ought to be a bit more robust with the agency on what we need to do for safety and what do not make much difference but just make earn a living far more difficult . the I - VMS situation do not sound very good . initially , the MMO have four supplier . many of the fisherman in Poole fit an I - VMS from one of the supplier that be subsequently suspend and be now wait to see what happen . the MMO have say that it will provide £ 650 , 000 of grant funding to replace work equipment , but it may be replace it with something less suitable than have be fit . the MMO have not yet confirm the procedure to follow for those with system instal by the two supplier that have be suspend . this be create more uncertainty , because those fisherman might well be disallow from fish . we need not only more clarity , but a bit of common sense in order to help and support our local fisherman . there be a great opportunity here , but we do require people who have give their life to fish to continue with it . I get a strong feeling from the fisherman in Poole that most of they will continue to do it largely because they feel their obligation to hand on their boat to a relative , be it their son , grandson or whoever , as there be a strong tradition of fishing in certain family . they will not be do it because they think they will be make a lot of money . Most of they think that some of these regulation be make their life more difficult than it need to be . I be pleased to have have the opportunity to raise these issue only a few day after meet they in the House . I hope that the Government and indeed the fishery Minister , who have have a bit of a kicking today , review some of these thing , as they ought , so that we can get a successful fishing industry that the Government support , rather than bring in regulation that get in the way . I congratulate the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) on secure the debate and my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) on lead it . I also thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant it . Mr Deputy Speaker , I state at the outset that I chair a community interest company , reaf — the Renaissance of East Anglian Fisheries . my comment will focus on the inshore fleet and on the marketing , processing and retailing of fish in the east of England . the UK ' s departure from the EU be intend to mark the start of the revival of the domestic UK fishing industry . we be yet to properly grasp this opportunity , primarily due to the poor term for fishing that be negotiate and be contain in the EU - UK trade and co - operation agreement . the Government have put in place the framework for improve the sector through the Fisheries Act 2020 , which provide for the preparation and implementation of regional fishery management plan , and through the creation of the UK seafood fund . yet , for many in the industry , two and half year on from the signing of the TCA , we be still on the starting grid , there have be no significant improvement in business outlook and , in many respect , the situation have get bad . the industry have also be hit hard by the cost of living crisis , high energy and fuel cost and labour shortage . I shall briefly highlight some of the challenge that the industry be face in East Anglia . Norfolk , Suffolk and Essex adjoin fishery ground 4c in the southern North sea , which be one of the rich fishing ground in northern Europe , but I be afraid that the catch opportunity for local fisherman remain poor . that be because we do not have full control over our own water and the inshore fleet , which fish sustainably , have to compete with large vessel , which be often non - UK register and often supertrawler . it be vital that that situation be address when the trade and co - operation agreement be renegotiate in 2026 . the UK should also consider introduce measure to allow the inshore fleet to fish exclusively in the 12 nautical mile zone , which would benefit not only coastal community and local economy , but fish stock . I acknowledge that the issue do not fall within the remit of the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , but , as we have hear , the requirement for fisherman to gain a ML5 medical certificate be cause enormous worry and distress within the inshore fleet , particularly for those operate single - handed vessel , who risk lose their livelihood . the feedback that I have receive from one fisherman be that when he ring his doctor ' s surgery , the receptionist have never hear of a ML5 . when he get his appointment , seven week later , he have to print off the 14 - page form and take it with he , and then he have to pay £ 125 . the doctor express the opinion that the ML5 be far too strict and detailed , and that it be easy to pass a medical to drive an hgv or a 52 - passenger coach . as we have hear , this be another example of british overzealous gold - plating , and I urge my hon . friend and her colleague in DEFRA to liaise closely with Baroness Vere to streamline the process . it be clear how colleague feel , but we should also take into account that the Department may well say that none of the people who have apply for the medical certificate have be reject . however , many have be refer , which take a great deal of time . it do not help the process and add to the stress . my hon . friend , like I and other in the House , will have fisherman in his constituency who will not want to carry on work because of the add bureaucracy . be that the case in his constituency ? I agree entirely with my hon . friend . I believe the inshore fleet be the future and the lifeblood of the industry . it will not have a future if there be no fisherman to operate those vessel , and very often they operate they on their own . a vibrant fishing industry can play a vital role in level up and uplift leave - behind community all around the UK , but to do so require fish to be land locally and then market , process , sell and eat locally , with specialist high - quality product , for which the UK have a long - establish and enviable reputation , be sell far afield , whether in London ' s fine restaurant or around the world . reaf recognise that challenge and , in the come month , it will be work up a seafood strategy for the east of England . unfortunately , that vision be in danger of be undermine by the Brixham fish market strategy of set up hub . I tell my hon . friend the Member for Totnes that I would be mention this issue . I be sure , when I have state my case , he will want to intervene , and I will be happy to take that intervention . Brixham fish market have be set up hub around the UK , where local fisherman deposit their fish , which be then transport by road for sale in Brixham . in the short term , I acknowledge that that sale outlet be attractive to many fisherman , due to the high price offer . however , in the long term , its consequence could be disastrous . a cartel or monopoly could be create , to which fisherman would be beholden , and we would then have squander that once in a lifetime opportunity to breathe life back into coastal economy all around the UK . do the hon . Gentleman accept that this be not isolate to Brixham ? plymouth fish market also overland fish to the market and it also sell remotely . it be not something that be specifically isolate to one particular market . I thank my hon . friend and I acknowledge that , but I be draw on experience in the east of England . Brexit and level up , in so many respect , be about give opportunity to very local community and fishing sector , in order to make the most of those opportunity in those location . we hear a lot about that during the Brexit negotiation . I see the issue in Lowestoft . the Lowestoft Fish Producers ' Organisation have an office in Lowestoft , but it do not land any fish in Lowestoft ; it land they in the Netherlands . it be not much well if that fish be then take over land and sell in Brixham , or wherever . that be to the detriment of the community that I represent , which yearn to take advantage of the opportunity . I strongly oppose my hon . friend ' s suggestion that Brixham be a cartel ; that be the wrong language to use . in the interest of see how this model might be replicate by other business and organisation , as my hon . friend the Member for South East Cornwall ( Mrs Murray ) have say already , will he come down and see the organisation and Brixham Trawler Agents ? he will see that this be something to be welcome by community across our coastal area , and how other business can take ownership of the idea , so that we can find way to land more fish not just at Brixham , but across all our respective port . there be not , as yet , a cartel or a monopoly . I be flag up the fact that if we do not watch it , that be what could happen and that would not benefit the wide UK fishing industry . will my hon . friend give way on that point ? I will give way to my hon . friend now before come to my next point . let I just say this before my hon . friend move on from this topic . I find this matter fascinating . I be not aware that this be happen in Brixham . it bring to mind the fact that in Peterhead , in my constituency , we have one of the large state - of - the - art fish market in the country , if not in Europe . catch from the west coast of Scotland and the island find their way over to peterhead market by road much fast than if those boat be to come around and land . it can work , but I appreciate that it can work in different place and in different way . may I suggest not only to the chair of the all - party group on fishery but to the treasurer that perhaps we should take my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) up on his invitation to see how the scheme might be propose . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . Lowestoft be the fishing capital of the southern North sea for the fishing industry in the east of England , which yean to regrasp that crown . this be what Brexit be about . my sense be that we need to build local infrastructure , local market and local processing all around the UK , and not concentrate they in one or two location . I also wish to highlight another disadvantage of that concentrate in one or two location , which be the complete lack of environmental sustainability of van , in this instance , drive from the East Anglian hub of Southwold , in the Suffolk Coastal constituency of my right hon . friend and neighbour the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , all the way to Brixham , which be a six and a half hour drive and a 350 - mile journey . that be not environmentally sustainable in today ' s world . I urge my hon . friend the Minister , who be look slightly bemuse at my approach , to understand that this be an issue locally in Norfolk and Suffolk , which be cause a lot of concern and discussion in the industry . I urge she to take this matter back to her colleague and look at the situation very closely . I suggest that one solution could be for her Department to prepare what I would call a national strategic plan of regional fish market , which would then be the focus of their local industry . money from the UK Seafood Fund could be direct and target at stimulate the creation of vibrant local fishing and seafood sector all around the UK , not just in Brixham with those very impressive sale record . let we distribute that all around the UK , and the UK as a whole , I suggest , will benefit most from such an approach . this be perhaps now turn into a debate about Brixham , which of course I be always happy have . the model that be also be consider in Brixham be to have hub outside of Brixham . my hon . friend be right to make the point that it be not necessarily environmentally friendly to have huge amount of truck come through , but Brixham be explore have hub in new community . if any colleague in this House be look to have hub set up , I be sure Brixham Trawler Agents would be delighted to come and see they . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . a single hub - and - speak model for the UK , I suggest , will not be to the benefit of the whole UK . what would be of benefit be hub - and - speak model in individual region . Mr Deputy Speaker , I will leave this issue for further discussion and debate . I welcome the fact that I have , hopefully , engender a debate on this particular issue . my final point be that the sea all around the UK be become increasingly crowded . I be refer to the spatial squeeze that many colleague have mention this morning and that the National Federation of Fishermen ' s Organisations , among other , have identify . in many respect , this enormous amount of activity be good news , as it will create the business that will bring new and exciting job to coastal community all around the UK , but we do need to be responsible guardian of our water . there be a need for a more strategic approach to marine planning , with the need of the fishing industry be properly represent . I be a great supporter of the offshore wind industry , but it be important to recognise that add physical structure in the sea at the scale that we be currently do will change pattern of oceanographic process and hence biological process . some of this change might actually be for the well , but much of it could well lead to degradation and it be vital that we ensure that do not happen . in conclusion , the UK fishing industry be not yet in the last - chance saloon — though I do listen carefully to the speech of the hon . member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) — but there be a very strong sense of miss opportunity . in the medium term , the Government need to prepare themselves for a tough renegotiation of the trade and co - operation agreement in 2026 . in the short term , there be a need for streamline administrative process and strategic thinking to ensure that the industry can flourish not only in East Anglia , but all around the UK . we be now come to the wind - up speech , which will last eight minute , 10 minute and 10 minute , and two minute for David Duguid at the end . I be anticipate that the second debate will start no later than around quarter to two . anybody who wish to take part in that debate should start make their way to the Chamber now . it be a pleasure to take part in this debate . I congratulate the hon . member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) and the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , who be not in his place , on their work in secure this debate . I also thank the Backbench Business Committee for allow the debate to happen . before I get into much of what I be go to say , I just want to confirm an announcement that have be make in the Scottish Parliament today by our Minister for Net Zero and Just Transition , Mairi McAllan . she say : " I can confirm today that the proposal as consult on will not be progress . this mean that we will no long seek to implement hpma across 10 % of Scotland ' s sea by 2026 . " as Mr Deputy Speaker will be aware , I have be sit here during the course of this debate , so I have not have an opportunity to listen to the entire content of what have be say . I direct member to have a look at that statement in the Scottish Parliament if they want any more information on what be happen in that regard . I wish to start my contribution with a few comment on Brexit . as the hon . member for Banff and Buchan say , there have be some issue and concern along the way , particularly for fish processer and those who be choose to export . it have not so much be the sea of opportunity that be promise , but more that people have be set adrift . the number of fishing vessel be continue to go down . the number of fisher have also be down over the last period . I wish to quote from a number of different article — not the one that be quote early — include from Politico . Charlie Waodie from Hull say : " I wish I have never vote for Brexit . they tell we everything that we want to hear . " James Wilson , the Welsh shellfish exporter say : " Brexit have be absolutely , fundamentally , profoundly devastating . it ' s utterly * * * * * * we . " you can imagine what the missing word be , Mr Deputy Speaker . it be the case that people feel that they be tell lie in advance of the Brexit vote . they be tell how great thing be go to be , and they be not as great as they think . as I acknowledge in my opening remark , a lot of concern have be raise with I , as they have no doubt be raise with she . but may I just point out that it be very easy to cherry pick certain quote from certain individual at certain time . what I have find when talk to people in the industry as I do , week after week , some of those quote be not necessarily generally indicative of the overall feeling . I agree , and I say early that the hon . Gentleman have talk about some of the problem people have encounter and the barrier they have face as a result of , in his word , not be as prepare as they could have be for Brexit . I do not shy away from that or suggest he be entirely positive about the whole thing in his speech . I understand , but I feel that , particularly for fish processor and those who be export , it have be a much more difficult process and situation , certainly than they be lead to believe , but also than before Brexit . thing be more difficult for people export to the EU now than they be previously . that be particularly important with shellfish or fish that will go off very quickly and require to be export as quickly as possible to get to their final destination . in some case , those export be not take particularly long than they be before , but in other case it be the level of uncertainty about when that shipment will arrive that be cause problem , as well as the number and cost of the additional hoop that business have to go through in order to export that excellent produce . I want to talk about the UK visa scheme . I be glad to hear the hon . member for Banff and Buchan talk about the importance of coastal community , as he often do . coastal community be incredibly important and they be at risk of depopulation . that be a problem that we see particularly across rural Scotland and it be exacerbate by the early situation with visa and the current situation with immigration . when Brexit be first on the card , I make the case that in negotiate it , the Prime Minister should say , " which be the industry that bring in the most money to the UK , the one that be good for our economy and most important for our economy ? those be the industry we should protect . secondly , which be the industry whose loss would cause decimation for community ? those be the industry we should protect . " the Government choose not to negotiate in that way but , if they have , we would not be see the immigration system be obstructive to people who be look to come and live in our rural community . we would have see the protection of fishing and farming community . we know that the loss of even a small number of people from those community will have a devastating impact , because there be not that many people live there . my colleague the hon . member for Banff and Buchan talk about the people who grow up in those family and who go into those industry as a result . I be originally from a fishing family , a couple of generation back . their surname be West , a name that hon . member have probably hear — certainly in scottish fishing circle , if not in the rest of the UK . I have some question for the Minister on the expansion of the UK visa scheme and the shortage occupation that have be add . we have call consistently for more occupation to be add to the shortage occupation list . the UK Government need to make decision on that with thought and care , but they also need to make they at speed , and to put the view and expertise of the industry ahead of any ideology about stop immigration . the shortage occupation that have be add be share fisherman , trawl skipper and experienced deckhand . I want to ask the Minister how many business have be in touch to seek support in apply for sponsorship for those new shortage occupation . I be lead to believe that the Government be provide a dedicated visa contact for individual , so they should have the ability to track the number of business that have be in touch . what percentage of application for those occupation be be grant ? be they generally be grant ? do the Government feel that add these three occupation be enough or be there more that require to be add ? the announcement be make at the end of May in the hope that it would be in time for the beginning of the summer season . give the length of time it be take to process visa application , be the Minister clear that they be be expedite in order for the worker to be able to come here in time for the fishing season to start ? rise — before the hon . Lady give way , just a reminder that I say eight minute and we be there now . I just want to make the hon . Lady aware that , around the same time — I think it be a couple of week early than the shortage occupation list announcement — the Home Secretary write to the industry , offer the fish catch sector additional facilitative support in get visa through more quickly . I appreciate that , but I want to know how it be work . I know the promise that be make , but what be the outcome ? lastly , fishing mean a lot to Scotland . it mean a lot to we . it be significantly high proportion of our economy than it be for the rest of the UK . we care passionately about it , and fish in the north - east of Scotland , or Scotland in general , be often different from fish across the UK . we will do what we can to put the interest of those live , work and hope to have successful business in Scotland first . I hope the Minister will take on board the question and concern we have raise , in order to ensure the continue prosperity of our fishing community , rather than a continuation of the decimation that be happen . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , who can not be here today , for secure this important debate and I thank the hon . member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) for fill in for he today . as colleague can see and will know , I be not my hon . friend the Member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , the shadow Fisheries Minister ; my hon . friend have ask I to send his apology to the House for not be here , so I be also fill in . however , as the Member for Newport West I be very proud of the port in our city and of the coastline and marsh far down the constituency , so talk water , fisher and our environment be very important to I . I want to start by remark on how consensual and agreeable the debate have be today . that be quite surprising , in my experience , but I hope the Minister will take away the fact that there have be so much cross - party agreement on the problem and the way to go forward on they . I pay tribute to the fisher up and down the country who go out in all weather , day after day . while there be many different sector , often with compete and conflict view , in all case it be clear that they be extremely hard - work people in the UK ' s most dangerous peacetime occupation . too many life be still lose and too many life - change injury still occur . during the pandemic and the lockdown period , our fisher work hard to support their local community and to keep they feed , and we know they be all hugely value . however , I be sad to say that , for all their value , fisher have be sorely let down by this Government . the fishing industry , like so many UK sector , be make a lot of promise in the run - up to 2016 . it be fair to say that many feel that those promise have be break or , at the very least , be yet to bear fruit . at the end of 2020 , Parliament pass the Fisheries Act 2020 , which give the Government the authority to act for we as an independent coastal nation outside the EU and outside the common fishery policy . it allow we to embark on bilateral agreement with our close neighbour and potentially to negotiate much more favourable fish quota for UK fisher . the outcome of those negotiation be a huge disappointment and be greet with widespread dismay . under the term agree between the UK and the EU in the trade and co - operation agreement back in December 2020 , the Government cede access to fish in UK water to EU vessel for six year and fail to establish an exclusive 12 - mile limit . that result be a long way off take back control of our water . the financial consequence of those deal be far - reach . the NFFO have calculate that the sector will see loss of £ 64 million or more a year , total more than £ 300 million by 2026 unless change be secure through international fishery negotiation . the english distant fleet have , to all intent and purpose , be sell out . Jane Sandell , the chief executive officer of UK Fisheries Ltd , be exasperate . refer to the deal with Norway as " yet another body blow for fisher in the North East of England " , she explain : " the few extra tonne of whitefish in the norwegian zone win ' t come close to offset the loss in Svalbard due to the reduced TAC . Defra know this and yet they simply don ' t seem to care about the english fleet . " as a consequence , she have have to lay off 72 people in the last 18 month . I hope the Minister will be able to explain why the english distant fleet have fare so badly , and what she plan to do about it . I be talk particularly about the english fleet here , but I be concern about DEFRA and the devolved administration work together . the Scottish and Welsh Governments have their role , but DEFRA have a dual role and it need to get it right . the joint fishery statement and the fishery management plan pose additional challenge . their objective be certainly positive . we all want the UK to develop a " vibrant , modern and resilient fishing industry and a healthy marine environment . " I also recognise that it be no easy task to balance the need to produce a plentiful supply of food in the UK with our aspiration to ensure sustainable stock and to protect , and repair the damage inflict on , the marine environment . all three objective be crucial . maintain stock must be a primary goal for the fishery management plan . it be in the interest of all concerned . sadly , stock level of cod in the west of Scotland have decline by 97 % since the 1980 , and trawler continue to operate in 98 % of offshore protect area . my hon . friend be make a good speech , and the many technical expert in the room will congratulate she on it . do she agree that a good step to protect stock and support UK fishing would be to ban foreign - own super - trawler that fish in our marine protect area but do not land their catch in the UK and so do not create job in our country ? my hon . friend be a doughty champion for the industry . he have make that point perfectly well — as have many other member — and yes , of course , I agree with he 100 % . Bycatch remain a serious problem . the Future Fisheries Alliance highlight study that show that bycatch be responsible for the catch and killing of around 1 , 000 harbour porpoise , 250 common dolphin , 475 seal , and 35 minke and humpback whale in gill net and other fishing gear in UK water every year . I speak in a recent debate about marine protect area as an important tool in safeguard our ocean ' s future . I be deeply concerned about the ecological state of our sea , river and lake , and the innumerable threat that they face from human activity . this House have be make well aware of the shockingly poor quality of the water in many part of the UK , and of the Government ' s negligence when it come to clean and protect our water . indeed , poor water quality be a major threat to the livelihood of our shellfisher in particular . shellfisher in West Mersea make it clear to we that it be an all too regular occurrence that effluent be discharge into the sea have mean that they have have to stop work . maintain a healthy , pollution - free environment can also be in the good interest of food producer . as I say , I welcome the joint fishery statement and the fishery plan , but I just do not think that they provide the answer require to create a thriving and sustainable fishing industry . we need a more strategic solution to balance the need to produce food , maintain stock and protect the marine environment . the NFFO be understandably concerned about the spatial squeeze . the Government need a robust response to the potential displacement of fishing area as more marine protect area be introduce and more offshore wind farm be propose . however desirable mpa and wind farm be , they literally reduce the size of the pool for the catch sector , as the hon . member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) highlight . question remain about how UK fishing plan will interact with third country , the extent to which plan will be base on datum , and how fishery management be simplify in future , not make as complicated as under the CFP . be there not a danger that Brussels red tape will simply be replace with UK red tape ? while our competitor have develop strategy to bolster their fishing industry and ensure that they have the good possible chance of sell their produce abroad , our Government seem intent on make life more difficult . the shellfish sector offer several example of that , as the hon . member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) highlight . whereas numerous other european country actively support the farming of Pacific oyster because they represent a sustainable method of produce high - quality marine protein , our Government actually hamper effort to farm they — so much so that David Jarrad , chief executive of the Shellfish Association of Great Britain , have resort to ask : " do we actually want a UK oyster industry ? " moreover , our fisher be be hold by UK regulator to much high standard than their competitor when it come to the system of test our shellfish for E . coli level . of course , we all want to be assure that our food be safe , but surely the same standard should apply to import good . our fisher be simply ask for a level playing field . to add insult to injury , the catch sector have be on the receive end of additional regulation that be heavy - handed and disproportionate . the catch app , the inshore vessel monitoring system , and boat inspection by the Maritime and Coastguard Agency have be exacerbate the stress our fisher be experience . the medical fitness certificate be a particularly good example of the proliferation of red tape that have swamp the small fishing business under this Government . the hon . member for South East Cornwall ( Mrs Murray ) speak eloquently about that . safety will always be a top priority , but insist that all fisherman and woman over the age of 50 fall below a certain weight be an expensive , onerous and hugely anxiety - provoke solution to a problem that do not exist . it be hard to find any accident in the report of the Marine Accident Investigation Branch that have be cause by a fisherman or woman be overweight . those challenge be enough to be grapple with , but the industry face a range of other problem , include the fight to keep afloat against the rise tide of rocket fuel cost and rise interest rate that devalue the pound ; labour shortage , which have be exacerbate by the covid - 19 pandemic , and strict immigration rule . it be little surprise , then , that the overall picture for fishing be cause concern — it be not the thrive industry we want to see . preliminary economic estimate by industry body Seafish , report in Politico , show that the number of active fishing vessel and full - time equivalent fishing - relate job fall 6 % in 2021 - 22 compare with 2019 - 20 , continue a decade - long trend . it be no wonder that many of our brave fisherman and woman be suffer from poor mental health . those factor constitute an existential threat to hundred of livelihood . there have be plenty of lawmaking but no clear vision and no substantive answer to the challenge that the fishing industry face . the conservative approach to trade deal and negotiation with country in distant water be too often naive and amateurish compare with our long - experienced and wily competitor . what be the plan ? where be the vision ? I hope the Minister can enlighten we today . the Labour party take a different view . we think that know our destination make it more likely that we will get there . a Labour Government will take action on three priority for the fishing sector . we will back our british fishing industry and work together to see they get a fair share of the quota in our water — more fish catch in british water and land in british port , support british processing job . we will work with fisher themselves to deliver improvement in safety standard and make our regulatory approach proportionate and risk - base . we will ensure that foreign boat that be allow to fish in our water follow the same rule as british boat . we will use the many framework and convention already in place to ensure that we have a sustainable marine environment that be safeguard for future generation , while ensure that our food security need be meet . the task be not a simple one — nobody say that it be — but our fisherman and woman deserve to be truly value and support for all the invaluable work they do . my goodness ! what a passionate and vociferous lot we have on all Benches . they be all champion for the fishing industry . we have even have some fishing - activity rivalry between constituency — I see all that as very healthy , as , I be sure , do you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I start by thank my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) for step in at short notice to lead the debate . he be , of course , a huge champion for the fishing industry and speak with such great knowledge give the port in his constituency , include Peterhead and Fraserburgh , and the rich fishing ground that he so often talk about in this place . we also send our good wish to the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , who be go to lead the debate but could not be with we . a lot of important point have be raise . I will try to deal with as many of they as I can in the time available . those that I do not cover I will pass to the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , my right hon . friend for Sherwood ( Mark Spencer ) , and I promise that he will reply to member on any outstanding issue that must be deal with . many member have mention what a dangerous job fishing be in the UK . the collision last October between the Guiding Light and the Guiding Star , off the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan , be a reminder to we all of the danger that our fisher face day in , day out . fortunately , the crew of both vessel be rescue safely and no life be lose , but we know that the outcome of such instance be often sadly much more tragic , and I want to remember those who have lose their life , not least — I be sure she will not mind I mention it — the husband of our hon . friend the Member for South East Cornwall ( Mrs Murray ) . I will put out a few key point before I turn to the point that have be raise . first , I be really proud , as I believe we all be , of the contribution that fishing make to the lifeblood of this nation and to our coastal and rural community . we have only 22 mile of coast in Somerset , but we still love it and be very proud of it . every time a fisherman go to sea , they be help to support their local community and economy and to provide healthy , low - carbon , nutritious food . secondly , the fishing industry rely on a healthy ocean , and no one know that more than the fishery industry itself . I be so aware of it , as the Minister responsible for environmental quality . we must have a joint approach of achieve both economic sustainability and environmental sustainability ; those two thing go hand in hand for our sea . the Minister talk about water quality . she hear my speech about the issue affect the north - east coast . do she agree that we have to step up the testing not just on Teesside and off the North Yorkshire coast but across the country , if we be to ensure that our sea be healthy and sustain sea life ? I be go to come to the hon . Gentleman ' s point later , but it be this Government who have increase the testing and bring in all the monitoring . we have a real focus on the bathing water area along our coast . that have be make a top priority through our storm overflow discharge reduction plan and our plan for water . let I touch quickly on the issue that the hon . Gentleman raise about the area around Whitby and Scarborough . he will know that our chief scientific adviser invite a group of independent scientist to join a crustacean mortality panel to review all the evidence , and that panel be unable to identify a clear , convince single cause for the mortality . we continue to monitor it — he be right : that be critical — and to look at any report of dead sea life on the north - east coast . everything we do must be base on scientific evidence , and monitoring be key to that . the health of our fish stock in our water be improve . for 2023 , 40 % of total allowable catch be set consistent with International Council for the Exploration of the Sea advice , compare with 34 % in 2022 . that be the big improvement we have have since the metric be introduce in 2020 . we look forward to ICES publish its scientific assessment of many of our key stock tomorrow . we know that much more need to be do to ensure that more of our stock be fish at level in line with the maximum sustainable yield and that we protect important specie and habitat , ultimately reach our goal of good environmental status . it be great news that the Shark Fins Bill receive Royal Assent today , which be just one indication of the care we take with the specie around our coast — and even the other one be fish off our water — and of the step we have take . thirdly , I recognise that one of the great concern of the sector be spatial pressure or spatial squeeze , to which many member have refer , in particular my hon . friend the Members for Banff and Buchan and for South East Cornwall . these pressure be significant . I be make well aware of that when I have offshore wind in my portfolio as the marine Minister . in Grimsby I meet lobster farmer in the Holderness Fishing Industry Group who be concerned that grow offshore wind development , which be important for the nation , would reduce the industry . but through liaison and close working , they have work out a good model so that they can continue to catch lobster in a healthy , sustainable way and we can have offshore wind . that be a very good example . in England , the cross - government marine spatial prioritisation programme be help to support a more strategic approach to manage all the pressure . the matter be devolve , and other nation will have their spatial issue . we be deal with this in England , but it be important that everyone talk together and deal with it . as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) say , everything go on around our coast be important , and we must try to make these thing work together . it be only with the input and involvement of the fishing industry that we can understand its view , with everybody have a piece of the sea — if we look at a map , we see that everybody do want a piece of it . it be a complicated picture , but we must work together to steer through it . fourthly , this Government have grab the opportunity offer by EU exit to start reform our fishery management arrangement here in the UK . we be move away from the one - size - fit - all straitjacket of the common fishery policy , which be so dislike by fisherman , to a fishery management system that will well reflect the need of our diverse industry here in the UK , support our coastal community and well protect our marine environment . we have to take every opportunity . the SNP and the Liberal Democrats want to stay in the common fishery policy , but it be this Government who take the step to move out of it , and we have to take the opportunity of do so . that include the joint fishery statement , which will provide a framework for sustainable fishery management for year to come . it also include our fishery management plan , which be be develop with the fishing industry , the first six of which be due to be consult on shortly . the idea be that they will become the gold standard for fishery and use as a template . we have also consult on how to share out from 2023 and beyond the additional fishery quota gain from our exit from the EU and put in place reform to strengthen the economic link condition . there have be a lot of talk today about trade and about the trade and co - operation agreement . the TCA set out a new quota - share arrangement for UK and EU fish stock , with a significant uplift for UK fisher — 25 % of the average annual EU catch from UK water be be phase in over five year from 2021 , with further increase each year until 2026 . there have be a lot of discussion about what will happen in 2026 . in 2026 , access to water will become negotiable as part of the UK - EU annual consultation , and this could be use to pursue several possible objective , such as increase quota share in the stock we fish and sustainability improvement . we have already begin talk with stakeholder to seek their view , and this will be increasingly important . I hear all the call , which I will pass on to the Fisheries Minister , about make the most of the Brexit opportunity . clearly , fisher want to see that , and we must ensure that it come about . another key issue raise by many member across the House be labour . I be pleased that the Home Secretary have offer seafood business a package of support to help they use the skilled worker route . in May , the Home Office announce that various fishing job , include trawl skipper and experience deckhand on large fishing vessel , would be add to the shortage occupation list this summer , and they will qualify for a low salary threshold and low visa application fee . I hear the point about the english language make by my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan . I will raise that and ensure that the Fisheries Minister be make aware of it , but the Home Office be the lead Department on these thing , as it would be for the issue raise by the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) about how many people have apply for that visa . I urge she to contact the Home Office about that . Mr Deputy Speaker have ask I to wind up , but I must mention seafood promotion . we have our £ 100 million seafood fund , which be be share between large company and small and medium - sized enterprise . official be work closely with the industry on small haddock . I love the idea from my hon . friend the Member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) about regional fish food market , even though it cause a bit of a storm between he and my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) . we all want to eat more locally catch food . if you will allow I , Mr Deputy Speaker , I must touch on the issue of medical certificate raise by my hon . friend the Members for South East Cornwall , for Poole ( Sir Robert Syms ) , for Totnes and for Waveney . I fully support the Maritime and Coastguard Agency ' s focus on improved safety , which I understand have unearth significant non - compliance , but I recognise that those measure have cause concern in the fishing industry . the Fisheries Minister have be meet with Baroness Vere . he will continue to have those meeting , and all the point raise in this debate will be pass to he , because we have to make this work for everyone . my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) can not be here , but I be delighted to report that her husband , who be a fisher in the under 10 metre group , have be through the process and have just get his certificate . I be sure that she will be pleased to share their experience , but she do raise the challenge for that sector . I will get the Fisheries Minister to write to my hon . friend the Member for Totnes about water quality and oyster . we have have a meeting about water quality . with my water quality hat on , I will just say that there should be opportunity to sort out any issue for shellfish fisherman by work on the wide catchment basis that be in our plan for water , with catchment plan . that be the kind of thing we could be work on with our farmer and those all the way up the catchment , to sort out the problem that end up on the coast . if necessary , I be happy to look into that issue at another time . Mr Deputy Speaker , you have be incredibly patient , but we have have so many question ; I have not be able to get through they all , but as I say at the beginning of my speech , it have be a really vibrant debate . the fishing industry have show resilience , adapt to a new , change world post Brexit . obviously , there be still work to do . our fishery management plan will be a big step towards our new future . it be all about balance , work together and feed in to make sure that we get the right outcome economically , for the environment and for our community . I thank everyone for take part , and I will follow up on any outstanding issue with the Fisheries Minister . I call David Duguid , who have two minute . thank you very much , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I thank the Minister for her response . I will not go through every single member , but I thank everybody who contribute to the debate . I will pick out a couple , include the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who mention that whenever there be a debate in this place about fishery , people from all over these island turn up to speak . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) , say that this be a very good - natured debate with a lot of agreement on all side . I think the big disagreement , which I be sure be not insurmountable , be on the conservative Benches . we can all work together to resolve that . I mention the Scottish Government ' s plan for hpma in my opening remark , and they have be mention by other . as the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) say , the Scottish Government have make a statement . both she and I have be here in the Chamber rather than listen to that statement , so I have just manage to get a few headline come through . I pay tribute to the Scottish Fishermen ' s Federation , the Scottish Seafood Association , the Scottish Association of Fish Producers Organisations , Salmon Scotland and the Communities Inshore Fisheries Alliance , among other , who have campaign vigorously to get to the stage where the Scottish Government have — at the very least — show sign of rethink their plan . I congratulate they on that , and cautiously welcome what the Scottish Government have announce today , whether it be a pause or a delay . I respectfully caution they to not take the industry for grant . the industry must be engage every step of the way , not just on where hpma might be in the future , but on the " why " , the " how " and even the " if " of hpma . Mr Deputy Speaker , I see that my two minute be up . I could talk about fishing all day , as I be sure everyone would agree , but I will close my remark by thank everyone again . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the fishing industry . Artificial Intelligence I remind everybody that follow the end of the debate that be about to begin , we will have a statement on the migration and economic development partnership . anybody wish to ask a question in that debate should start to make their way to the Chamber as soon as the wind - up in the artificial intelligence debate begin . I beg to move , that this House have consider artificial intelligence . be it not extraordinary that we have not previously have a general debate on what be the issue of our age ? artificial intelligence be already with we today , but its future impact have yet to truly be feel , or indeed understand . my aim in request this debate — I be very grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for award it — be twofold . first , it be to allow member to express some view on an issue that have move a long way since I be partially Minister for it , and even since the Government White Paper come out , which happen only very recently . secondly , it be to provide people with an opportunity to express their view on a technology that have to be regulate in the public interest , but also have to be seize by Government to deliver the huge improvement in public service that we all know it be capable of . I hope that the industry will hear the view of parliamentarian , and — dare I say it ? — perhaps well understand where the gap in parliamentarian ' knowledge might be , although of course those gap will be microscopic . I will begin with a brief summary of where artificial intelligence be at , which will be self - avowedly superficial . at its good , AI be already allow the NHS to analyse image well than ever before , augment the expertise of our brilliant and expand workforce with technology that be in a way analogous to something like adaptive cruise control — it help ; it do not replace . it be not a technology to be scared of , and patient will welcome that tool be put at the disposal of staff . we be already see AI be use to inform hr decision such as hire and fire — an area that be much more complex and much more in need of some kind of regulation . we see pupil use it to research — and sometimes write — their essay , and we sometimes see school use AI to detect plagiarism . every time I drive up to my constituency of Boston and Skegness , I listen to Politico ' s " Playbook " , voice by Amazon ' s Polly AI system . it be everywhere ; it be in the car too , help I to drive it . AI be create job in prompt engineering that do not exist just a few year ago , and while it be use to generate horrific child sex abuse image , it be also use to detect they . I want to take one example of AI go rogue that a senior american colonel talk about . it be claim that a drone be award point for destroy a certain set of target . it consult its human controller on whether it should take a certain course of action , and be tell that it should not . because it get point for those target , it decide that the logical thing to do be to kill its human controller , and when it be tell that it should not do so , it try to target the control tower that be communicate with its controller . that be the stuff of nightmare , except for the fact that that colonel be later declare to have misspoken . no such experiment ever take place , but just second ago , some people in this House might have believe that it do . AI be already damage public trust in technology . it be damage public trust in leadership and in democracy ; that have already happen , and we must guard against it happen far . both here in and America , election be come up soon . even in the most human sector , the creative industry , one radio presenter be recently report to have upload her previous show so that the artificial intelligence version of she could cover for she during the holiday . how be new staff to get their first break , if not on holiday cover ? million of job in every sector be at stake . we also hear of analyst upload the war game of Vladimir Putin to predict how he will fight in Ukraine , with remarkable accuracy . we hear of AI be use by those interested in antibiotic and by those interested in bioweapon . there be long - term challenge here , but there be very short - term one too . the Government ' s White Paper promote both innovation and regulation . it do so in the context of Britain be the most advanced nation outside America and China for AI research , development and , potentially , regulation . we can and should cement that success ; we be help by DeepMind , and by OpenAI ' s decision only yesterday to open its first office outside the US in London . the Prime Minister ' s propose autumn summit should allow we to build a silicon bridge to the most important technology of this century , and I welcome it hugely . I want to lay out some thing that I hope could be consider at the summit and with this technology . first , the Government clearly need to understand where AI will augment exist possibility and challenge , and most of those challenge will already be cover by legislation . Employment , for instance , be already regulate , and whether or not company use AI to augment their hr system , it be already illegal to discriminate . we need to make sure that those exist law continue to be reinforce , and that we do not waste time reinvent the wheel . we do not have that time , because the technology be already with we . transparency will be key . the hon . Member be make an important speech . be he aware of the AI system that , in identify potential company chief executive officer , would identify only male ceo because of the datum that have be input ? even though there be exist legislation , we have to be mindful of the datum that be go into new technology and AI system . the hon . member be absolutely right that , when do well , AI allow we to identify discrimination and seek to eliminate it , but when do badly , it cement it into the system in the bad possible way . that be partly why I say that transparency about the use of AI will be absolutely essential , even if we largely do not need new legislation . we need principle . when do right , in time this technology could end up cost we less money and deliver great reward , be that in the field of discrimination or public service and everywhere in between . there be a second - order point , which be that we need to understand where loophole that the technology create be not cover by exist bit of legislation . if we think back to the time we spend in his House debating upskirting , we do not do that because voyeurism be somehow legal ; we do it because a loophole have be create by a new technology and a new set of circumstance , and it be right that we seek to close it . we urgently need to understand where those loophole be now , thank to artificial intelligence , and we need to understand more about where they will have the great effect . in a similar vein , we need to understand , as I raise at Prime Minister ' s question a few week ago , which part of the economy and region of the country will be most affect , so that we can focus the immense Government skill programme on the area that will be most affected . this be not a predictable industry , such as when we come to the end of the coalmine industry , and we be not able to draw obvious line on obvious map . we need to understand the economy and how this impact on local area . to take just one example , we know that call centre — those thing that keep we wait for hour on hold — be go to get a lot well thank to artificial intelligence , but there be part of the country that be particularly see an increase in local call centre employee . this will be a boom for the many people work in they , but it be also a hump that we need to get over , and we need to focus skill investment in certain area and certain community . I do believe that , long term , we should be profoundly optimistic that artificial intelligence will create more job than it destroy , just as in every previous industrial revolution , but there will be a hump , and the Government need to help as much as they can in work with business to provide such opportunity . we should be optimistic that the agency that allow people to be happy in their work — personal agency — will be enhance by the use of artificial intelligence , because it will take away some of the less exciting aspect of many job , particularly at the lower - pay end of the economy , but not by any mean solely . there be no shame in eliminate dull part of job from the economy , and there be no nobility in protect people from inevitable technological change . history tell we that if we do seek to protect people from that technological change , we will impoverish they in the process . I want to point to the area where the Government surely must understand that potentially new offence be to be create beyond the tactical risk I have describe . we know that it be already illegal to hack the NHS , for instance . that be a tactical problem , even if it might be somewhat different , so I want to take a novel example . we know that it be illegal to discriminate on the ground of whether someone be pregnant or likely to get pregnant . warehouse , many of they run by large business , gather a huge amount of datum about their employee . they gather temperature datum and movement datum , and they monitor a huge amount . they gather datum that go far beyond anything we have previously see just a few year ago , and from that datum , company can infer a huge amount , and they might easily infer from that whether someone be pregnant . if we do that , which we already do , should we now say that it will be illegal to collect such datum because it open up a potential risk ? I do not think we should , and I do not think anyone would seriously say we should , but it be open to a level of discrimination . should we say that such discrimination be illegal , which be the situation now — company can gather datum but it be what they do with it that matter — or should we say that it actually expose people to risk and company to a legal risk , and that it may take we backwards rather than forwards ? unsurprisingly , I think there be a middle ground that be the right option . suddenly , however , a question as mundane as collect datum about temperature and movement , ostensibly for employee welfare and to meet exist commitment , turn into a political decision : what information be too much and what analysis be too much ? it bring we as politician to question that suddenly and much more quickly revert to ethic . there be a risk of huge and potentially dangerous information asymmetry . some people say that there should be a right to a human review and a right to know what can not be do . all these be ethical issue that come about because of the advent of artificial intelligence in the way that they have not do so previously . I commend to all member the brilliant paper by Oxford University ' s Professor Adams - Prassl on a blueprint for regulate algorithmic management , and I commend it to the Government as well . AI raise ethical consideration that we have to address in this place in order to come up with the principle - base regulation that we need , rather than try to play an endless game of whack - a - mole with a system that be go to go far fast than the mind of legislator around the world . we can not regulate in every instance ; we have to regulate horizontally . as I say , the key theme surely must be transparency . a number of member of Parliament have confess — if that be the right word — to use AI to write their speech , but I hope that no more people have use AI to write their speech than those who have already confess . transparency have be key in this place , and it should be key in financial service and everywhere else . for instance , AI - generate video could already be force to use watermarke technology that would make it obvious that they be not the real deal . as we come up to an election , I think that such use of exist technology will be important . we need to identify the gap — the lacunae — both in legislation and in practice . artificial intelligence be here with we today and it will be here for a very long time , at the very least augment human intelligence . our endless creativity be what make we human , and what make we to some extent immune from be displace by technology , but we also need to bear in mind that , ultimately , it be by we that decision will be make about how far AI can be use and what AI can not be use for . People see a threat when they read some of the most hyperbolic headline , but these be primarily not about new crime ; they be about use AI for old crime , but do they a heck of a lot well . I end by say that the real risk here be not the risk of thing be do to we by people use AI . the real risk be if we do not seize every possible opportunity , because seize every possible opportunity will allow we to fend off the bad of AI and to make the great progress . if every student know that teacher be not use it , far more fake essay will be submit via chatgpt . every lawyer and every teacher should be encourage to use this technology to the maximum safe extent , not to hope that it simply go away . we know that judge have already see lawyer construct case use AI and that many of the reference in those case be simply fictional , and the same be true of school essay . the great risk to progress in our public service come from not use AI : it come not from malevolent people , but from our thinking that we should not embrace this technology . we should ask not what AI can do to we ; we should ask what we can do with AI , and how Government and business can get the skill they need to do that well . there be a risk that we continue to lock in the 95 % of AI compute that sit with just seven company , or that we promote monopoly or the discrimination that the hon . member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) mention . this be an opportunity to avert that , not reinforce it , and to cement not prejudice but diversity . it mean that we have an opportunity to use game - change technology for the maximum benefit of society , and the maximum number of people in that society . we need to enrich the dialogue between Government , the private sector and the third sector , to get the most out of that . this be a matter for regulation , and for global regulation , as be so much of the modern regulatory landscape . there will be regional variation , but there should also be global norm and principle . outside the European Union and United States , Britain have that unique position I describe , and the Prime Minister ' s summit this autumn will be a key opportunity — I hope all our invite be in the post , or at least in an email . I hope that will be an opportunity not just for the Prime Minister to show genuine global leadership , but also an opportunity to involve academia , parliamentarian and broad society in have that conversation , and allow the Government to seize the opportunity and regain some trust on this technology . I urge the Minister to crack on , seize the day , and take the view that artificial intelligence will be with we for as long as we be around . it will make a huge difference to our world . do right , it will make everything well ; do badly , we will be far poor for it . I call the Chair of the AI Committee , Darren Jones . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , but if there be an AI Committee I be certainly interested in serve on it . I declare my interest , as set out in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and I thank the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) and the Backbench Business Committee for organise and agree to this important debate . I will make the case for the Government to be more involved in the technology revolution , and explain what will happen if we leave it purely to the market . it be a case for a technology revolution that work in the interest of the british people , not against our interest . in my debate on artificial intelligence a few week ago , I paint a picture of the type of country Britain can become if we shape the technology revolution in our interest . it be a country where worker be well pay , have well work and more time off . it be a country where public servant have more time to serve the public , with well access and outcome from our public service , at reduce cost to the taxpayer . it be a country where the technological revolution be see as an exciting opportunity for worker and business alike — an opportunity to learn new thing , improve the quality of our work , and create an economy that be successful , sustainable , and strong . I also warn the House about the risk of the technology revolution if we merely allow ourselves to be shape by it . that be a country where technology be put upon people , instead of be develop with they , and where productivity gain result in economic growth and high profit , but leave worker behind with reduce hour or no job at all . it be where our public service remain in the analogue age and continue to fail , with increase provision from the private sector only for those who can afford it . it be a world in which the pace of innovation race ahead of society , creatively destroy the livelihood of many million of people , and where other country leap ahead of our own , as we struggle to seize the economic opportunity of the technology revolution for our own economy , and through the potential for export to support other . the good news be that we be only really at the start of that journey , and we can shape the technology revolution in our interest if we choose to do so . but that mean act now . it mean remember , for all our discussion about artificial intelligence and computer , that we serve the people . it mean be honest about the big question that we do not yet have answer to . it be on some of those big question that I will focus my remark . that be not because I have fully form answer to all of they at this stage , but because I think it important to put those big question on the public record in this Parliament . the big question that I wish to address be these : how do we maintain a thriving , innovative economy for the technology sector ; how can we avoid the risk of a new age of inequality ; how can we guarantee the availability of work for people across the country ; and how can we balance the power that worker have , and their access to training and skill ? fundamental to all those issue be the role and capacity of the state to support people in the transition . we will all agree that create a thriving , innovative economy be a good idea , and we all want Britain to be the go - to destination for investment , research and innovation . we all want the british people , wherever they be from and from whatever background , to know that if they have an idea , they can turn it into a successful business and benefit from it . as the hon . member for Boston and Skegness allude to , that mean get the balance right between regulation and economic opportunity , and create the service that will support people in that journey . ultimately , it mean protect the United Kingdom ' s status as a great place to invest , start , and scale up technology business . although we be in a relatively strong position today , we risk fall behind quickly if we do not pay attention . in that context , the risk of a new age of inequality be perhaps obvious . if the technology revolution be an extractive process , where big tech take over the work currently do by human and restrict the access to market need by new company , power and wealth will be take from worker and concentrate in the already powerful , wealthy and largely american big - tech company . I say that not because I be anti - american or indeed anti - big tech , but because it be our job to have Britain ' s interest at the front of our mind . will big tech pick up the tab for universal credit payment to worker who have be make redundant ? will it pay for our public service in a situation where few people be in work pay less tax ? of course not . so we must shape this process in the interest of the british people . that mean create inclusive economic opportunity so that everybody can benefit . for example , where technology improve productivity and profit , worker should benefit from that with well pay and few day at work . where worker come up with innovative idea on how to use artificial intelligence in their workplace , they should be support to protect their intellectual property and start their own business . the availability of work be a more difficult question , and it underpin the risk of a new age of inequality . for many worker , artificial intelligence will replace the mundane and the routine . it can result in human worker be leave with more interesting and meaningful work to do themselves . but if the productivity gain be so significant , there be conceivably a world in which we need few human worker than we have today . that could result in a four - day week , or even few day than that , with work be available still for the majority of people . the technology revolution will clearly create new job — a comfort provide to we by the history of previous industrial revolution . however , that raise two question , which relate to my next point about the power of worker and their access to training and skill . there be too many example today of technology be put upon worker , not develop with they . that create a workplace culture that be worried about surveillance , oppression , and the risk of be performance manage or even fire by an algorithm . that must change , not just because it be the right thing to do but because , I believe , it be in the interest of business manager and owner for worker to want to use these new technology , as oppose to feel oppress by they . on training , if someone who be a worker today want to get ahead of this revolution , where do they turn ? unless they work in a particularly good business , the likelihood be that they have no idea where to go to get access to such training or skill support . Most people can not just give up their job or go part time to complete a high education course , so how do we provide access to free , relevant training that worker be entitle to take part in at work ? how do the state partner with business to co - create and deliver that in the interest of our country and the economy ? the role of the Government in this debate be not about legislation and regulation ; it be about the service we provide , the welfare state and the social contract . that take I to my next point : the role and capacity of the Government to help people with the technology transition . do we really think that our public service today be gear towards help people benefit from what will take place ? do we really believe our welfare system be fit for purpose in help people who find themselves out of work ? artificial intelligence will not just change the work of low - pay worker , who might just be able to get by on universal credit ; it will also affect worker on middle and even high income , include journalist , lawyer , creative sector worker , retail staff , public sector manager and many more . those worker will have mortgage or rent to pay , and universal credit payment will go nowhere near cover their bill . if a significant number of people in our country find themselves out of work , what will they do ? how will the Government respond ? the system as it be design today be not fit for that future . I raise those question not because I have easy answer to they , but because the probability of those outcome be likely . the severity of the problem will be dictate by what action we take now to mitigate those risk . in my view , the state and the Government must be prepare and must get themselves into a position to help people with the technology transition . there seem now to be political consensus about the opportunity of the technology revolution , and I welcome that , but the important unanswered question be : how ? we can not stop this technology revolution from happen . as I have say , we either shape it in our interest or face be shape by it . we can sit by and watch the market develop , adapt and innovate , take power and wealth away from worker and create many of the problem I have explain today , leave the Government and our public service to pick up the piece , probably without sufficient resource to do so . alternatively , we can decide today how this technology revolution will roll out across our country . I be ask the other day whether I be worried that this technology - enable future would create a world of despair for my child . my answer be that I be actually more worried about the effect of climate change . I say that because we know about the cause and consequence of climate change in the 1970 , but we do nothing about it . we allow company to extract wealth and power and leave behind the damage for the public to pick up . we be now way behind where we need to be , and we be actively fail to turn it around , but with this technology revolution , we have an opportunity in front of we to show the public that a different , more hopeful future be possible for our country — a country fill with opportunity for well work , well pay and well public service . let we not make the same mistake as our predecessor in the 1970 , and let we not be trap in the current debate of doom and despair for our country , even though there be many reason to feel like that . let we seize this opportunity for modernisation and reform , remember that it be about people and our country . we can put the technology revolution at the heart of our political agenda and our vision for a modern Britain with a strong , successful and sustainable economy . we can have a technology revolution that work in the interest of the british people and a Britain that be upgrade so that it work once again . however , to shape the technology revolution in our interest , that work must start now . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , and I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) on secure it and on his excellent speech and introduction . it be a pleasure to follow my fellow Committee Chair , the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) . between the Business and Trade Committee and the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , we have a strong mutual interest in this debate , and I know all of our member take our responsibility seriously . this be one of the most extraordinary time for innovation and technology that this House have ever witness . if we have not be talk so much about Brexit and then covid , and perhaps more recently , Russia and Ukraine , our national conversation and — this go to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness — debate in this Chamber , would have be far more about the technological revolution that be affect all part of the world and our national life . it be true to say that , perhaps as well as the prominence that the discovery of vaccine against covid have engender , AI have puncture through into public consciousness as a change in the development of technology . it have get people talk about it , and not before time . I say that because , as both member who have make speech have say , it be not a new technology , in so far as it be a technology at all . in fact , in a laconic question to one of the witness in front of our Committee , one member observe , " be artificial intelligence not just math and computer ? " in fact , one of the witness say that in his view it be apply statistic . this have be go on for some time . my Committee , the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee — I be delighted to see my colleague the hon . member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) here — be undertake a fascinating and , we hope , impactful inquiry into the future governance of AI . we be take it seriously to understand the full range of issue that do not have easy or glib answer — if they do , those be well avoid — and we want to help inform this House and the Government as to the good resolution to some of the question in front of we . we intend to publish a report in the autumn , but give the pace of debate on these issue and , as I be sure the hon . Lady will agree , the depth of the evidence we have hear so far , we hope to publish an interim report soon than that . it would be wrong for I as Chair of the Committee to pre - empt the conclusion of our work , but we have take a substantial amount of evidence in public , both oral and write , so I will draw on what we have find so far . have say that AI be not new — it draw on long - stand research and practice — it be nevertheless true to say that we be encounter an acceleration in its application and depth of progress . to some extent , the degree of public interest in it , without resolution to some of the policy question that the hon . member for Bristol North West allude to , carry some risk . in fact , the nomenclature " artificial intelligence " be in some way unhelpful . the word " artificial " be usually use in a pejorative , even disdainful way . when combine with the word " intelligence " , which be one of the most prized human attribute , the " artificial " rather negate the positivity of the " intelligence " , lead to thought of dystopia , rather than the more optimistic side of the argument to which my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness refer . nevertheless , it be a subject matter with which we need to grapple . in term of the pervasiveness of AI , much of it be already familiar to we , whether it be navigation by sat - nav or suggestion of what we might buy from Amazon or Tesco . the analysis of datum on our behaviour and the world be embed , but it must be say that the launch of ChatGPT to the public just before Christmas have catapult to mass attention the power already available in large language model . that be a breakthrough moment for million of people around the world . as my hon . Friend say , much of the current experience of AI be not only benign , but positively beneficial . the evidence that our Committee have take have look at particular application and sector . if we look at healthcare , for example , we take evidence from a medical company that have develop a mean of recognise potential prostate cancer issue from MRI scan far before any symptom present themselves , and with more accuracy than previous procedure . we hear from the chief executive of a company that be use AI to accelerate drug discovery . it be design drug from datum , and select the patient who stand to benefit from they . that mean that use could be find , among more accurately specify patient group , for drug that have fail clinical trial on the ground not of safety but of efficacy . that could lead to a very early prospect of well health outcome . we hear evidence that the positive effect of AI on education be significant . every pupil be different ; we know that . every good teacher tailor their teaching to the response and aptitude of each student , but that can be do so much well if the tailoring be augment through the use of technology . as Professor Rose Luckin of University College London tell we , " student who might have be fall through the net can be help to be bring back into the pack " with the help of personalised AI . in the field of security , if intelligence assessment of a known attacker be pair with AI - rich facial recognition technology , suspect may be pinpoint and apprehend before they have the chance to execute a deadly attack . there be many more advantage of AI , but we must not only observe but act on the risk that arise from the deployment of AI . some have talk about the catastrophic potential of AI . much of what be suggest , as in the case of the example give by my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness , be speculative , the work of fiction , and certainly in advance of any known pathway . it be important to keep a cool head on these matter . there have be talk in recent week of the possibility of AI kill many human in the next couple of year . we should judge our word carefully . there be important threat , but portent of disaster must be meet with thinking from cool , analytical head , and concrete proposal for step to take . I very much applaud the seriousness with which the Government be approach the subject of the governance of AI . for example , a very sensible starting point be make use of the deep knowledge of application among our sector regulator , many of which enjoy great respect . I have mention medicine ; take the medical regulator , the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency . with its deep experience of supervise clinical trial and the drug discovery process , it be clear that it be the right starting point ; we should draw on its experience and expertise . if AI be to be use in drug discovery or diagnostic , it make sense to draw on the MHRA ' s year of deep experience , for which it be renowned worldwide . it be also right to require regulator to come together to develop a joint understanding of the issue , and to ask they to work collectively on regulatory approach , so that we avoid inconsistency and inadvertently apply different doctrine in different sector . it be right that regulator should talk to each other , and that there should be coherence . give the commonality , there should be a substantial , well - fund , central capacity to develop regulatory competence across AI , as the Government White Paper propose . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s initiative , which the hon . member for Bristol North West mention . in Washington , the Prime Minister agree to convene a global summit on AI safety in the UK in the autumn . like other technology , AI certainly do not respect national boundary . our country have an outstanding reputation on AI , the research and development around it , and — at our good — regulatory policy and regulation , so it be absolutely right that we should lead the summit . I commend the Prime Minister for his initiative in secure that very important summit . the security dimension will be of particular importance . like - minded country , include the US and Japan , have a strong interest in develop standard together . that reflect the fact that we see the world through similar eye , and that the security of one of we be of prime importance to the other . the hon . member for Bristol North West , in his debate a few week ago , make a strong point about international collaboration . one reason why a cool - head approach need to be take be that the subject be susceptible to the involvement of hot head . we must recognise that head off the risk be not straightforward ; it require deep reflection and consideration . knee - jerk regulatory response may prove unworkable , will not be widely take up by other country , and may therefore be injurious to the protection that policy innovation aim to deliver . I completely agree with the hon . Gentleman that there be time for regulation , but not much time . we can not hang around , but we need to take the appropriate time to get this right . my Committee will do what it can to assist on that . if the Government reflect on these matter over the summer , their response should address a number of challenge that have arise in this debate , and from the evidence that my Committee take . solution must draw on expertise from different sector and profession , and indeed from people with expertise in the House , such as those contribute to this debate . let I suggest briefly a number of challenge that a response on AI governance should address . one that have emerge be a challenge on bias and discrimination . my hon . friend the Member for Brent Central have be clear and persistent in ask question to ensure that the dataset on which algorithm be train do not embed a degree of bias , lead to result that we would not otherwise tolerate . I dare say she will refer to those issue in her speech . for example , as have be mention , in certain recruitment setting , if datum reflect the gender or ethnic background of previous staff , the profile of an " ideal " candidate may owe a great deal to past bias . that need to be address in the governance regime . there be a second and related point on the black box challenge . one feature of artificial intelligence be that the computer system learn from itself . the human operator or commissioner of the software may not know why the algorithm or AI software have make a recommendation or propose a course of action . that be a big challenge for those of we who take an interest in science policy . the scientific method be all about transparency ; it be about put forward a hypothesis , test it against the datum , and either confirm or reject the hypothesis . that be all do publicly ; publication be at the heart of the scientific method . if important conclusion be reach — and they may be accurate conclusion , with great predictive power — but we do not know how , because that be deep within the network of the AI , that be a profound challenge to the scientific method and its application . facial recognition software be a good example . the Metropolitan police be use facial recognition software combine with AI . it commission a study — a very rigorous study — from the National Physical Laboratory , which look at whether there be any racial bias that can be determine from the subject that be detect through the AI algorithm . the study find that there be no evidence of that , but that be on the basis of a comparison of output against other setting ; it be not base on a knowledge of the algorithm , which in this case be proprietary . it may or may not be possible to look into the black box , but that be one question that I think government and regulator will need to address . in evidence to the Committee — of which I be a member — the Met say that there be no bias in its facial recognition system , whereas its own report state that there be bias in the system , and a bias with regard to identify black and asian woman . in fact , the result be 86 % incorrect . there be lot of way of sell the benefit of facial recognition . other country across Europe have ban certain facial recognition , while the UK have not . do the right hon . Gentleman think that we need to look a lot more deeply into current application of facial recognition ? the hon . Lady make an excellent point . these challenge , as I put they , do not often have easy resolution . the question of detect bias be a very important one . both of we have take evidence in the Committee and in due course we will need to consider our view on it , but she be right to highlight that as a challenge that need to be address if public confidence and justice be to be serve . it can not be take lightly or as read . we need to look at it very clearly . there be a challenge on secure privacy . my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness make a very good point about an employer take people ' s temperature , whether they could be an indication of pregnancy and the risk that that may be use in an illegal way . that be one example . I hear an example about the predictive power of financial information . the transaction that pay money to a solicitor ' firm that be know to have a reputation for advise on divorce can be a very powerful indicator of a deterioration in the financial circumstance of a customer in about six month ' time . whether the bank can use that information , detect a payment to a firm of divorce solicitor , to downgrade a credit rating in anticipation be a matter that I think at the very least should give rise to debate in this House . it show that there be question of privacy : the use of datum gather for one purpose for another . since we be talk about datum , there be also a challenge around access to datum . there be something of a paradox about this . the Committee have take evidence from many software developer , which quite often be small business found by a brilliant and capable individual . however , to train AI software , they need datum . the big the dataset the more effective the training be , so there be real return to economy of scale when it come to datum . there be a prospective contrast between potentially very small software developer who can not do anything without access to datum that may be in the hand of very large company . those of we who use Google know that it have a lot of information on we . I mention bank . they have a lot of information on we , too . that be not readily accessible to small start - up , so access to datum be something we will need to address . another challenge we need to address be access to compute , which be to say , the power to analyse datum . again , the big the computer , the big the compute power and the more effective and successful algorithm will be , but that can be a barrier to entry to small firm . if they be reserve to giant , that have profound consequence for the development of the industry . it be one of the reason why I think the Government be right to consider plan for a dedicated compute resource in this country . those issue combine to make for what we might call an anti - trust challenge , to which the hon . member for Bristol North West refer . there be a great danger that already we may concentrate market power in the hand of a very small number of company , from which it be very difficult thereafter to diversify and have the degree of contestability and competition that the full benefit of AI should be able to respond to . our regulator , in particular our competition regulator , will need to pay close attention to that . relate to that be the law and regulation around intellectual property and copyright . in the creative industry , our copyright give strong protection to people who create their own original work . the degree of modification or use without payment and licensing that be tolerable without damage the return and the vibrancy of our crucial creative sector be very important . another challenge be on liability , which mirror some of the debate take place about our large social medium platform . if we develop a piece of AI in an application that be use for illegal purpose , should we , as the developer or the person who license it , be responsible for its use by an end user or should that be a matter for they ? in financial service , we have over time impose strong requirement on provider of financial service , such as bank , to , in the jargon , know your customer — KYC . it be not sufficient just to say , " I have no reason to suppose that my facility be go to be use for money laundering or drug trafficking . " there be a responsibility to find out what the intend use be . those question need to be address here . the hon . member for Bristol North West raise question about employment and the transition to a new model of employment , many of which have some upside . one of the classic definition of a sentient computer be that it pass the ture test : if there be a screen between a person and the computer they be interact with , would they know that it be a computer , or would they think it be a human being ? the experience of a lot of my constituent when deal with some large bureaucracy be that even if there be a human on the end of the telephone , they might as well be a computer because they be drive by the script and the software . in fact , one might say that they fail the ture test . the great personalisation of AI may overcome what can be a pretty dispiriting experience for employee who have to park their humanity and read out a script to a consumer . there be big challenge but also opportunitie there . a couple of other thing have be refer to , such as the challenge of international co - ordination . we have the agency to set our own rule , but there be no point in do so without take the opportunity to influence the world . we will be strong if we have — at least among like - minded country , and preferably beyond — a strong consensus about how we should proceed . my right hon . friend ' s word , " at least among like - minded country " , trigger a thought . if we do not include China — in lot of other area we exclude it for moral and ethical reason — it will be a futile exercise . as far as I can tell , China want to be involve . what be his view on involve country such as China ? my view be that it should be a global initiative . at the very least , strong security aspect will combine like - minded nation . we should advance that ; we may put protection in place with other link nation . I completely agree with my right hon . friend that we should look to establish a global consensus . there be sometimes pessimism about whether it be possible to regulate genie that have come out of the bottle , but if we think of available technology such as human cloning , there be not a country in the world — as far as I be aware — that have not recognise it as ethically wrong and act against it . in fact , I think there be a person in China in jail at the moment for have attempt that . I will draw my remark to a close , have set out the rich range of challenge that stand before government around the world and our regulator . they be not easy thing to get right , but it be of profound importance that we think carefully and put in place the good possible governance system to maximise the benefit and see off the harm that may result . for the Minister and his colleague across Whitehall , it mean a busy summer prepare for the summit , but I wish they well , and I look forward to the House take a great interest in and participate in and around the plan summit . it be a pleasure to follow the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , of which I be a member . I congratulate the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) on secure the debate and the Backbench Business Committee on allow it . I use to be a computer programmer , so I like tech — I need to put that out there . this debate on AI follow the category of three type of people . I compare those three type of people to some friend that I use to go out party with . one would get completely waste ; one would just sit in the corner and not want to get involve ; and I would be the driver , so I would stay sober but enjoy the party . in this debate I like to think that I be stay sober , enjoy the party and make sure that everyone , myself include , get home safely . could I invite my hon . friend to inform the House which of we in this debate be the one who get waste ? I do not think my friend would look kindly on I if I say their name . I always make sure they get home safely — that be the main thing . my hon . friend the Member for Streatham ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) tell I the other day that she ask ChatGPT to write a letter from she to constituent on the danger of AI . this be what chatgpt churn out : " dear [ Constituent ] , thank you for reach out to I with your concern about large language model AI . I share your worry about the potential risk that this technology pose and I appreciate the opportunity to address they . as you may be aware , large language model AI be an advanced form of artificial intelligence that can generate human - like text by training on vast amount of datum . while this technology have show tremendous potential in various field , include language translation , chatbot , and content creation , it also present significant ethical , social , and legal challenge . one of the main concern about large language model AI be its potential to perpetuate bias and discrimination . if the datum use to train these model be bias , the AI will learn and replicate those bias in its output , lead to harmful outcome . moreover , these model have the ability to generate highly realistic but entirely fake text , which could be use to spread disinformation , manipulate public opinion , and even harm individual . therefore , I believe that the regulation and governance of large language model AI be essential to ensure that it be use ethically and responsibly . the UK government have be actively engage with the tech industry , academia , and civil society to understand the implication of AI and develop a regulatory framework that promote innovation while safeguard human right and value . " that , to I , be an illustration of the fact that even AI itself recognise that there be some issue with AI . it show that we need clear regulation , which we do not quite have at the moment . there be still time for the Government ' s White Paper to change that , and I hope that debate of this kind will enable change to happen . many member have refer to the use of AI for medical advance , and quantum computer will certainly enable medicine and medical solution to be find much more quickly . however , as I say when evidence be be give to the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , even something as simple as body mass index , which be use in the medical world , be a flawed measurement . the use of BMI in the building of AI will integrate that bias into anything that the AI produce . member may not be aware that the BMI scale be create not by a doctor but by an astronomer and mathematician in the 1800 . what he be try to do be identify l ' homme moyen — the average man — in statistical term . the scale be never mean to be use in the medical world in the way that it be . People can be prevent from have certain medical procedure if their BMI be too high . the Committee be give no evidence that we would rule out , or mitigate , a flawed system such as BMI in the medical profession and the medical world . we should be worried about this , because in 10 or 20 year ' time it will be too late to explain that BMI be always discriminatory against woman , asian man and black people . it be important for we to get this right now . I recognise the huge benefit that AI can have , but I want to stress the need to stay sober and recognise the huge risk as well . when we ask certain organisation where they get their datum from , the response be very opaque : they do not tell we where they be get their datum from . I understand that some of they get their mass datum scrape from site such as Reddit , which be not really where people would go to become informed on many thing . if we do not take this seriously , we will be automate discrimination . it will become so easy just to accept what the system be tell we , and people who be already marginalise will become far marginalise . many , if not most , ai - power system have be show to contain bias , whether against people of colour , woman , people with disability or those with other protect characteristic . for instance , in the case of passport application , the system keep on say that a person ' s eye be close when in fact they have a disability . we must ensure that we measure the impact on the public ' s right and freedom alongside the advance in AI . we can not become too carry away — or drunk — with all the benefit , without think about everything else . at the beginning , I think it reasonable for the Government to say , " we will just expand legislation that we already have , " but when the Committee be take evidence , I realise that we need to go a great deal far — that we need something like a digital Bill of Rights so that people understand and know their right , and so that those right be protect . at the moment , that be not the case . there be a really stark example when we hear some information in regard to musician , music and our voice . our voice be currently not protect , so with the advancement of deepfake , anybody in this House can have their voice attach to something use deepfake and we would have no legal recourse , because at the moment our voice be not protect . I believe that we need a digital Bill of Rights that would outlaw the most dangerous use of AI , which should have no place in a real democracy . the Government should commit to strengthen the right of the public so that they know what be ai - generate or whether facial recognition — the digital imprint of their face — be be use in any way . we know , for instance , that the Met police have on file million of people ' s image — innocent people — that should not be there . those image should be take off the police database . if an innocent person ' s face be on the database and , at some point , that be put on a watch list , the domino effect mean that they could be accuse of do something they have not do . the UK ' s approach to AI currently diverge from that of our close trading partner , and I find that quite strange . it be not a good thing and there be an apparent trade - off between progress and safety . I think we should always err on the side of safety and ethic . Progress will always happen ; we can not stop progress . company will always invest in AI . it be the future , so we do not have to worry about that — people will run away with that . what we have to do be ensure that we protect people ' s safety , because otherwise , instead of be industry leader in the UK , we will be know as the country that have shoddy or poor practice . nobody really want that . there be country that be outlaw how facial recognition be use , for instance , but we be not do that in the UK , so we be increasingly look like the outlier in this discussion and protection around AI . government ' s first job be to protect their citizen , so we should protect citizen now from the danger of AI . harm be already arise from AI . the Government ' s recently publish White Paper take the view that strong , clear protection be simply not need . I think the Government be wrong on that . strong , clear protection be most definitely need — and need now . even if the Government just catch up with what be happen in Europe and the US , that would be more than we be do at the moment . we need new , legally bind regulation . the White Paper currently have plan to water down data right and datum protection . the Data Protection and Digital Information ( no . 2 ) Bill paint an alarming picture . it will redefine what count as personal datum . all these thing have be put in place piecemeal to ensure that personal datum be protect . if we lower the protection in the definition of what be personal datum , that will mean that any company can use our personal datum for anything it want and we will have very limited recourse to stop that . at the end of the day , our personal datum be ultimately what power many AI system , and it will be leave ripe for exploitation and abuse . the proposal be woefully inadequate . the scale of the challenge be vast , but instead of rein in this technology , the Government ' s approach be to let it off the leash , and that be problematic . when we receive evidence from a representative from the Met police , she say that she have nothing to hide so what be the problem , for instance , in have the fingerprint , if you like , of her face everywhere that she go ? I be sure that we all have either curtain or blind in our house . if we be not do anything illegal , why have curtain or blind ? why not just let everyone look into our house ? Most abuse happen in the home so , by the same argument , surely allow everyone to look into each other ' s house would eliminate a lot of abuse . in our country we have the right to privacy , and people should have that right . our digital fingerprint should not be take without our consent , as we have police by consent . the Met ' s use of live facial recognition and retrospective facial recognition be worry . I have a meeting with Mark Rowley the other day and , to be honest , he do not really understand the implication , which be a worry . like many people , I could easily get carry away and get drunk with this AI debate , but I be the driver . I need to stay sober to make sure everyone get home safely . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) . I join everyone in congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) on secure this important debate . everybody be talk about artificial intelligence , which be everywhere . an article in the Sentinel , Stoke ' s local paper , recently catch my eye . last week , the Home Secretary visit my constituency to open a Home Office facility in Hanley , a development provide more than 500 new job in Stoke - on - Trent . the article reflect on the visit and , amusingly , compare the Home Secretary ' s response to question pose by the local medium with the response from an AI . specifically , the Home Secretary be ask whether Stoke - on - Trent have take more than its fair share of asylum seeker through the asylum dispersal scheme , and about the measure she be take to ensure that asylum seeker be accommodate more evenly across the country . she reply : " the new Home Office site be a vote of confidence in Stoke - on - Trent . . . they will be help to bring down the asylum backlog and process application more quickly . " the same question be pose to chatgpt , which be ask to respond as if it be the Home Secretary . the AI respond : " I acknowledge the city have indeed take on a significant number of asylum seeker . this kind of uneven distribution can place stress on local resource and create tension within community . it be clear we need a more balanced approach that ensure all region share responsibility and benefit associate with welcome those in need . " the AI also refer to review the asylum dispersal scheme , strengthen collaboration with local authority , infrastructure development and the importance of public awareness and engagement . we all know what it be like to be on the receive end of medium question , and a simple and straightforward answer be not always readily available . I suppose the AI ' s response offer more detail but , unsurprisingly , it do not tell we anything new . it be , after all , limit by the information that be currently on the internet when formulate its answer . thankfully , AI be not take to make thing up — hopefully that will not happen , but it be one of the big debate . this beg the question : what be truth ? that be the fundamental question on this topic . we must develop a robust ethical framework for artificial intelligence . the UK should be commend for embrace the spirit of an entrepreneurial and innovative approach to artificial intelligence . we know that over - regulation stifle creativity and all the good thing it have to offer . however , AI have become consumer - focused and increasingly accessible to people without technical expertise . our regulatory stance must reflect this shift . although there should be a departure from national regulatory micromanagement , the Government have a role to play in protect the public against potential online harm . it can not be leave to self - regulation by individual company . let we also remember that artificial intelligence operate within a global space . we can not regulate the company that be develop this technology if they be base in another nation . this be a complicated space in which to navigate and create safeguard . balance those concern be increasingly complex and challenging , and conversation such as this must help we to recognise that regulation be not impossible and that it be incredibly important to get it right . for example , when the tax authority in the Netherlands employ an AI tool to detect potential childcare benefit fraud , it make mistake , result in innocent family face financial ruin and thousand of child be place in state custody as a result of accusation . when the victim try to challenge the decision , they be tell that official could not access the algorithmic input , so they be unable to establish how decision have be make . that underline the importance of check and balance . the hon . Lady be absolutely right on these concern , especially as regard the Home Office . big Brother Watch ' s " Biometric Britain " report speak about how much money the Home Office be pay to company , but we do not know who they be . if we do not know who these company be , we will not then know how they gather , develop and use their datum . do she think it be important that we know who be get money for what ? the hon . Lady make a good point . clearly , that be the big part of this debate : we have to have transparency , as it be essential . the Government ' s current plan , set out in the AI White Paper , do not place any new obligation on public body to be transparent about their use of AI ; to make sure their AI tool meet accuracy and non - discrimination standard , as she rightly say ; or to ensure that there be proper mechanism in place for challenge or get redress when AI decision go wrong . what the White Paper propose be a " test and learn " approach to regulation , but we must also be proactive . technology be change rapidly , while policy lag behind . once AI be beyond our control , implement safeguard become implausible . we should acknowledge that we can not afford to wait to see how its use might cause harm and undermine trust in our institution . while still encourage sensible innovation , we should also learn from international experience . we must encourage transparency and put in place the proper protection to avoid damage . let we consider the financial sector , where bank traditionally analyse credit rating and history when decide who to lend money to . I have recently be work with group such as Burnley Savings and Loans , which manually underwrite all loan and assess the risk of each loan by study the business model and repayment plan of its customer . would it be right to use AI to make such decision ? if we enter a world where there be no scope for gut feeling , human empathy and intuition , do we risk impoverish our society ? we need to be careful and consider how we want to use AI , be ethical and thoughtful , and remain in control , rather than roll it out wherever possible . we must strike the right balance . research indicate that AI and automation be most useful when complement by human role . the medium can be negative about AI ' s impact , lead to a general fear that people will lose their job as a result of its growth . however , historically , new technology have also lead to new career that be not initially apparent . it have be suggest that the impact of AI on the workplace could rival that of the industrial revolution . so the Government must equip the workforce of the future through skill forecast and promote education in STEM — science , technology , engineering and math . furthermore , we must remain competitive in AI on the global stage , ensure agility and adaptability , in order to give future generation the good chance . in conjunction with the all - party group on youth affair , the YMCA have conduct polling on how young people feel about the future and the potential impact of AI on their career . the result be go to be announce next month . it find that AI could not only lead to a large amount of job displacement , but provide opportunity for those from non - traditional background . More information on skill and demand will help inform young people to identify their career choice and support industry and business in prepare for the impact of AI . I be pleased that the Department for Education have already launch a consultation on AI education , which be open until the end of August . follow that , we should work hard to ensure that school and university can quickly adapt to AI ' s challenge . cross - departmental discussion be important , bring together AI expert and educator , to ensure that the UK be at the cutting edge of development with AI and to provide advice to adapt to young generation . AI be hugely powerful and possess immense potential . ChatGPT have recently catch everybody ' s attention , and it can create good story and news article , like the one I share . but that technology have be use for year and , right now , we be not keep up . we need to be quick at adapt to change , monitor closely and be alert to potential danger , and step in when and where necessary , to ensure the safe and ethical development of AI for the future of our society and the welfare of future generation . recall a conversation that we have early in the day , I be tempt to call Robin Millar in the style of Winston Churchill . for the benefit of Members present , Mr Deputy Speaker and I have the chance to discuss and look at the quality of chatgpt . within a matter of second , ChatGPT produce a 200 - word speech in the style of Winston Churchill on the subject of road pricing . it be a powerful demonstration of what we be discuss today . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) on conceive the debate and bring it to the Floor of the House . I thank the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , and the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) , for their contribution . as a Back Bencher , it be fascinating to hear about their role as chair of those Committees and how they pursue line of inquiry into a subject as important as this one . I have be encourage greatly by hon . member from across the House by the careful and measure consideration they have take of the subject . I congratulate the hon . member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) on perhaps the most engaging introduction to a speech that I have hear in many a week . my own thought go to the other character in the party who think they be sober , but everyone else can see that they be not . I leave it to those listen to the debate to decide which of we fit which caricature . I have come to realise that this House be at its good when we consider and discuss the challenge and opportunity to our society , our life and our way of work . the debate address both challenge and opportunity . first , I will look at what AI be , because without know that , we can not build on the subject or have meaningful discussion about what lie beyond . in consider the development of AI , I will look at how we in the UK have a unique advantage . I will also look at the inevitability of destruction , as some risk and challenge lie ahead . finally , I hope to end on a more optimistic and positive note , and with some question about what the future hold . like many of we , I remember where I be when I see Nelson Mandela make that walk to freedom . I remember where I be when I see the image on television of the Berlin wall come down . and I remember where I be , sit in a classroom , when I see the tragedy of the NASA shuttle fall from the sky after its launch . I also remember where I be , and the computer I be sit at , when I first engage with ELIZA . those who be familiar with artificial intelligence will know that ELIZA be a dummy program that provide the role of a counsellor or someone with whom people could engage . my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells have already allude to the ture test , so I will not speak more of that , but that be where my fascination and interest with this matter start . to bring thing right up to date , as mention by Mr Deputy Speaker , we now have chatgpt and the power of what that can do . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) and to the hon . member for Brent Central because I be rich , not only for their contribution , but because I have a private bet with myself that at least two member would use and quote from ChatGPT in the course of the debate , so I thank they both for an extra fiver in my jar as a result of their contribution . in ground our debate in an understanding of what AI be , I be glad that my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness mention the simulation of an unarmed aerial vehicle and how it take out the operator for be the weak link in deliver what it have be task with do . that , of course , be not the point of the story and he do well to go on to mention that the UAV have adapt — adapt to take that step . as a simulation , when that rule change , it then change again and say , " now I will take out the communication mean by which that operator , who I can no long touch , control myself " . the principle there be exactly as hon . member have mention : it can work only to the datum that it be give and the rule with which it be set . that be the lesson from apocryphal story such as those . in that particular case , there be a very important principle — it be this idea of a " human in the loop " . within that cycle of datum , processing , decision making and action , there must remain a human hand guide it . the more critical the consequence — the more critical the action — the more important it be that that be there . if we think of the potential application of AI in defence , it would be very straightforward — complex but straightforward — and certainly in the realm of what be possible , for AI to be use to interpret real - time satellite imagery to detect troop movement and to respond accordingly , or to recommend a response accordingly , and that be where the human in the loop become critical . these thing be all possible with the technology that we have . what AI do well be to find , learn and recognise pattern . in fact , we live our life in pattern at both a small and a large scale . AI be incredibly good — we could even say superhuman — at see those pattern and predict next step . we have all experience thing such as TikTok and Facebook on our phone . we find ourselves suddenly shake our head and think , " gosh , I have just lose 15 minute or long , scroll through . " it be because the algorithm in the software be spot a pattern of what we like to see , how long we dwell on it , what we do with that , and it then feed we another similar item for we to consume . perhaps more constructively , artificial intelligence be now use in agriculture . tractor will carry boom across their back with multiple robot . each one of those little robot will be use an optical sensor to look at individual plant that it be pass over and it will , in a split second , identify whether that plant be a crop that be want , or a weed that be not . More than that , it will identify whether it be a healthy plant , whether it be infect with a parasite or a mould , or whether it be infest with insect . it will then deliver a targeted squirt of whatever substance be need — a nutrient , a weedkiller or a pesticide — to deal with that single plant . this be all be do in a tractor that be move across a field without a driver , because it be be guide by gps and an autonomous system to maximise the efficiency of the coverage of that area . AI be use in all these thing , but , again , it be about recognise pattern . there be advantage in that . there be no more harmful blanket administration of pesticide , or the excessive use of chemical , because these can now be very precisely targeted . to any expert listen to this , let I say that I make no pretence of expertise . this be in some way my own mimicry of the thing that I have read and learn and be fascinate by . expert will say that it be not pattern that AI be good at ; it be abstraction . that can be a strange concept , but the idea of an abstraction be one of how we pull out of and create a model of what we be look at . without go into too much detail , there be something in what the hon . member for Brent Central be talk about in term of bias and prejudice within system . I suggest that that do not actually exist within the system unless it be intentionally program . it be a layer that we apply on top of what the system produce and we call it this thing . the computer have no understanding of bias or prejudice ; it be just process — that be all . we apply an interpretation on top that can indeed be harmful and dangerous . we just need to be careful about that distinction . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : AI do not create ; it generate . it generate from the datum that be be inputte . the simplified version be " rubbish in , rubbish out " — it be more complex than that , but that be the simple way of say it . if we do not sort out the bias before we put in the datum , the datum will be bias . the hon . Lady — my hon . friend , if I may — be absolutely correct . it be important to understand that we be deal with something that , as I will come onto in a moment , do not have a generalised intelligence , but be an artificial intelligence . that be why , if hon . member will forgive I , I be perhaps labour the point a little . a good example be autonomous vehicle and the abstraction of event that the AI must create . it might be a car be drive erratically , for example . while the autonomous vehicle be drive along , its camera be constantly scan what be happen around it on the road . it need to do that in order to recognise pattern against that abstraction and respond to they . of course , once it have that learning , it can act very quickly : there be video on the internet from the dashcam of car drive autonomously and without a driver , slow down , change lane or move to one side of the road because the car have predict , base on the behaviour it be see of other car on the road , that an accident be go to happen — and sure enough , second later , the accident occur ahead , but the AI have successfully steer the vehicle to one side . that be important , but the limitation be that , if the AI only learn about wander car and do not also learn about rock roll on to the road , a fall tree , a landslide , a plane crash , an animal run into the road , a wheelchair , a child ' s stroller or an empty shopping cart , it will not know how to respond to those . these be sometimes call edge case , because they be not the mainstream but happen on the edge . they be hugely important and they all have to be account for . even in the event of a fall tree , the abstraction must allow for tree that be big or small , in leaf or bare , fall towards the car or across the road , so we can see both the challenge of what AI must do , and the accomplishment in how well it have do what it have do so far . that highlight the Achilles heel of AI , because what I have try to describe be what be call a generalised intelligence . generalised intelligence be something that we as human turn out to be quite good at , or at least something that it be hard for computer to replicate reliably . what a teenager can learn in a few hour — that is , drive a car — it take billion of image and video and scenario for an AI to learn . a teenager in a car intuitively know that a rock roll down a hillside or a fall tree present a real threat to the road and its user . the AI have to learn those thing ; it have to be tell those thing . crucially , however , once AI know those thing , it can generate they fast and respond much more quickly and much more reliably . I will just make the comment that it do have that ability to learn . to go back to the agricultural example , the year of gather image of healthy and poorly plant , create library and then teaching , can now be do much fast because of this ability to learn . that be another factor in what lie ahead . we have to think not just that change will come , but that the ability to change will also be fast in the future . I hope it be clear then that what AI be not be a mind of its own . there be no ghost in the machine . it can not have motivation of its own origin , nor can it operate beyond the parameter set by its program or the physical constraint build into its hardware . as an aside , I should make a comment about hardware , since my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells and other may comment on it . in term of hardware constraint , the suggestion be that the probability of the sudden take - off of general artificial intelligence in the future be very small . AI derive its ability to make rapid calculation from parallelisation , that is , simultaneously run multiple calculation across central processing unit . the optimisation and instruction programme appear to have hit rapidly diminish return in the mid to late 2010 , as such processing speed be increasingly constrain by the number of cpu available . an order - of - magnitude increase in throughput therefore require similar increase in available hardware or an exceedingly expensive endeavour . in other word , basic engineering parameter mean that we can not be suddenly blindside , I would suggest , by the emergence of a malevolent global intelligence , as the movie would have we believe . I be grateful for your indulgence , Mr Deputy Speaker , as I establish this baseline about what AI can and can not do . it be important to do so in order then to consider the question of development . the key point that I highlight be the opportunity we have to create in the UK — specifically in the post - Brexit UK — an environment for the development of AI . if colleague will indulge I — I mean not to make political point — I will make an observation on the contrast between the environment we have here compare with other part of the world . in any rapidly develop area of technology , it be important to differentiate the unethical application of technology and the technology itself . unfortunately the EU ' s AI Act illustrate a failure to recognise that distinction . by ban model capable of emotional and facial recognition , for example , EU lawmaker may believe that they have ban a tool of mass surveillance , but in fact , they risk ban the development of a technology that may have a myriad of otherwise very good application , such as therapy and educational tool that can adjust to user response . the same hold for the ban on model that use behaviour pattern to predict future action . caution around that be wise , but a rule prevent AI from perform a process that be already use by insurer , credit scorer , interest - rate setter and health planner across the world for fear that it might be use to develop a product for sale to nasty dictator be limit . perhaps the most egregious example of that conflation be the ban on model train on publish literature , a move that effectively risk lobotomise large language model research application such as chatgpt in the name of reduce the risk of online piracy . we might compare that to ban all factory simply to ensure that none be use to manufacture illegal firearm . in short , and in word of one syllable : it be easy to ban stuff . but it be much hard — and this be the task to which we must apply ourselves — to create a moral framework within which regulation can help technology such as AI to flourish . to want to control and protect be understandable , but an inappropriate regulatory approach risk smother the AI industry as it draw its first breath . in fact , as expert will know well than I , AI be exceptionally good at find loophole in rule - base system , so there be a deep irony to the idea that it might be the subject of a rule - base system but not find or use a way to navigate around it . I be encourage by the Government ' s contrast approach and the strategy that they publish last year . we have recognise that Britain be in a position to do so much well . rather than constrain development before application become apparent , we seek to look to those application . we can do that because , unlike the tradition of roman law , which be inherently prescriptive and underline the thinking of many nation and , indeed , of the EU , the common law , as we have in this country , allow we to build an ethical framework for monitoring industry without resort to blanket regulation that kill the underlie innovation . that mean that , in place of prescriptive dictate , regulator and judge , we can — in combination with industry leader — innovate , evolve and formalise good practice proportionate to evolve threat . give that the many application of AI will be discoverable only through the trial and error of hundred of dispersed sector of the economy , that be the only option open to we that do not risk cull future prosperity and — without wish to overdramatise — create an invisible graveyard of unsaved life . it be a most un - british thing to say , but this british system be a well way . indeed , it be be introduce to nation around the world . they be switch from a regulatory approach to one of common law for many reason . first , it facilitate progress . just as no legislator can presume to know all the positive application of a new technology such as AI , they be also blind to its potential negative application . in the UK , in this environment , AI could prove to be a game - changer for british bioengineering . the world - lead 100 , 000 genome Project and UK Biobank , combine with our upcoming departure from the GDPR , promise AI - equip researcher an unparalleled opportunity to uncover the genetic underpinning of poor health and pharmaceutical efficacy , to the benefit of health service around the world . the second reason be that it be more adaptable to threat . decentralise system of monitoring , involve industry professional with a clear understanding of the technology , be the most effective form of risk management we can realistically devise . an adaptable system have the potential to insulate we from another risk of the AI era : technology in the hand of hostile power and criminal . as in previous era , unilateral disarmament would not make we safe . instead , it would leave we without the tool to counteract the superior predictive ability of our foe , render we a contemporary Qing dynasty marvel at the arrival of steamship . it be vital to recognise that AI be go to bring destruction . this be perhaps the most revolutionary technological innovation of our lifetime , and with it , AI bring the potential for creative destruction across the economy at a fast pace than even the world wide web . I will quote Oppenheimer when he cite the Bhagavad Gita , which say : " now I be become Death , the destroyer of world . " that be not to sensationalise and fall into the same trap I warn of at the start of my remark , but it be important to recognise that there will be change . every bit as much as we have see the stripping out of personnel in factory as they be replace by machinery , we will see the loss of sector to this technology . the critical point be not to stop it but to recognise it , adapt and use it for its strength to develop . we should be upfront about this . a failure to do so risk a backlash to excess . we can not react with regulation ; we must harness this . the industrial revolution bring both unprecedented economic prosperity and massive disruption . for all we know , have the luddite enjoy a world of universal suffrage , their cause may have triumph , doom we to material poverty thereafter . if Britain be to reap the benefit of this new era of innovation , we must be frank about its potential , include its disruptive potential , and be prepared to make a strong case to defend the future it promise . should we fail in this task , surrender instead to the temptation of reactionary hysteria , our future may not look like an apocalyptic Hollywood blockbuster . it will , however , resemble that common historical tale of a once - great power sleepwalk its way into irrelevance . on a more hopeful note , I turn to the question of where next ? I speak before of the pattern - base approach that amplify conformity , such as we see on TikTok and Facebook . this quality may be attractive to technocrat — predictability , pattern , find gap and fill they — but that point to an increase conformity that I , and I think many other , find boring . artificial intelligence should be explore what be new and innovative . what about awe — the experience and the reaction of our mind when see or realise something genuinely new that do not conform to past pattern ? a genuinely intelligent system would regularly be create a sense of awe and wonder as we experience new thing . contrast the joy when we find a new film of a type we have not see before — it cover the page of the newspaper , dominate conversation with our friend and bring life to our soul , even — with be feed another version of the same old thing we have get use to , as some music app be prone to do . consider the teacher who encourage we to try new thing and have new experience , and how we grow through take those risk , rather than just hear more of the same . this beg key question of governance , too . we have hear about a Bill of digital right , and question of freedom be rightly raise by the hon . member for Brent Central , but what about a genuinely free - think future ? what would AI bring to politic ? we must address that question in this place . what system of government have the good record of deal with such issue ? would it support an ultimate vision of fairness and equity via communism ? could it value and preserve tradition and concept of beauty that could only be say , as Scruton argue , to have true value in a conservative context ? these have always be big question for any democracy , and I believe that AI may force we to address they in depth and at pace in the near future . that bring I to a final point : the question of a moral approach . here , I see hope and encouragement . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central talk about truth , and I believe that ultimately , all AI do be surface these deep question and issue . the one I would like to address , very briefly , be the point of justice . the law be a rulebook ; pattern , abstraction , conformity and breach be all suit to AI , but such a system do not predict or produce mercy or forgiveness . as we hear at the national parliamentary prayer breakfast this week , justice open the door to mercy and forgiveness . it be something that be vital to the future of any modern society . we all seek justice — we often hear about it in this House — but I would suggest that what we really seek be what lie beyond : mercy and forgiveness . likewise , when we talk about technology , it be often not the technology itself but what lie beyond it that be our aim . as such , I be encourage that there will always be a place for humanity and those human quality in our future . indeed , I would argue , they be essential foundation for the future that lie ahead . I will keep my speech short and snappy , and not repeat anything that any other Member have say — I know that be unfashionable in this place . I begin by congratulate the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) on introduce the debate . he be one of the very good Ministers I have ever come across in my role on the Front Bench , and I be sorry to see he on the back Benches ; he be well due promotion , I would say . I be sure that have just damn his prospect for all eternity . as my party ' s culture spokesperson , I be very keenly aware of the art community ' s concern about AI and its risk to the art . I have now be twice — like you , Mr Deputy Speaker , I be sure — to " ABBA Voyage " , once in my role on the Culture , Media and Sport Committee and once as a guest of the wonderful Svana , its producer . as I be sure you know , Mr Deputy Speaker , the show use AI and motion capture technology combine with a set of massive , ultra - high - quality screen to create an utterly magnificent gig . it feel like the entire audience be get to see ABBA in their prime ; indeed , it be perhaps even well than it would have be originally , because we now have ultra - modern sound quality , dazzle light show and a vast arena in which to enjoy the show . it be history , airbrush to perfection and make contemporary . it seem to be a success , have sell over 1 million ticket so far and with talk of its tour the world . in fact , it be so good that towards the end , some of the audience start wave at Agnetha and Bj ö rn . they have become completely convinced that they be not in fact AI , but real people . there be tear as people look at Agnetha , which say something about the power of technology to persuade we , do it not ? soon , I will be go to see Nile Rodgers — that really be a very good gig , as I do not need to tell the other Front Benchers present . again , I be go to be his guest . he be a legendary guitarist , songwriter and singer ; he give evidence to our Select Committee ; and he have sell 500 million album worldwide . Nile will be incredible — he always be — but he will also be 70 year of age . it will not be a 1970s early funk gig . the audience will include the mature , people in the prime of middle youth such as myself , and also the Glastonbury generation . it be easy to envisage an AI Nile Rodgers , produce by a record company and perhaps tour in competition with the very real Nile Rodgers , compete for ticket sale with the great man himself . indeed , it be easy to envisage the young recording artist of today sign away their right to their likeness and vocal in perpetuity , with long - term consequence . many in the art sphere feel safe from AI , as they suspect that human creativity at the artistic level can not be replicate . I very much hope that they be right , but once that human creativity have be capture , it can be reproduce eternally , perhaps with high production level . it be not , I feel , the sole responsibility of artist , musician and playwright to be concern themselves with radical development in AI . they have work to do as it be , and surely the job to protect they be ours . we need to get on top of the copyright issue , and we need to protect future performer from have their right sell away along with their very first contract . we as parliamentarian must think deeply , listen and research widely . I have hear some heartening — sometimes lengthy — speech that show there be , cross party , an awareness and a willingness to grasp this , and that be deeply encouraging . however , the UK Government have much to work on in their White Paper . they have a lot to do when they look at this and listen to the submission , and they must provide improvement . it allow public institution and private company to use new experimental AI on we , and then try to correct the flaw subsequently . it use we , our community and our industry as guinea pig to try out untested code to see whether that make matter well or bad . I think the risk be many for the art community , which be concern deeply about fakery , and there be an argument that the AI White Paper empower such digital fakery . in closing , it be absolutely key that we listen to expert in this field , as we should always do to inform our decision making , but in particular to those in the art and music industry because they will be so deeply affected . I call the shadow Minister . it be an honour to close this debate on behalf of the Opposition . I thank all colleague for their contribution , and I pay tribute to the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) for bring forward this interesting and thoughtful debate . we can all agree that artificial intelligence have tremendous potential for social good . indeed , we know that artificial intelligence technology already contribute about £ 3 . 7 billion to the UK economy . there be some genuinely incredible innovation out there , much of which I have have the privilege of see at first hand over the past 18 month . whether it be train robot work with our armed force as part of our defence and recovery effort , app to support female health or AI programme that could one day make our work life easy and more flexible , the opportunity really be endless . it be no surprise , therefore , that the Government have be shout as loudly as possible about their plan to capitalise on this innovation . however , it be crucial that innovation do not come at the expense of everyday work people . while Labour welcome this debate , as a proud Welsh MP , I be clear that the Government need to go far to ensure that the discourse on AI and innovation be not focus entirely on the opportunity here in London . that say , we can all recognise that technology such as AI have the power to truly transform life . this could range from improve medical service and deliver well , more efficient public service to work to deliver job and employment opportunity for all for generation to come . while AI and chatgpt have be mention heavily today and be regularly in the headline , much of this technology have be around for year or decade . I be therefore interested to hear from the Minister exactly why it take his Department so long to produce the long - overdue UK science and technology framework , which finally come out in March this year . the same can be say of the Government ' s AI White Paper , which be out of date just month after be publish . in the White Paper ' s foreword , the Secretary of State — the right hon . member for Chippenham ( Michelle Donelan ) — claim : " my vision for an AI - enable country be one where our NHS hero be able to save life use AI technology that be unimaginable just a few decade ago . " however , that point to the exact issue with this Government ' s approach to tech , which be that it absolutely fail to be forward - thinking . the Government ' s current plan do not place any new obligation on public body to be transparent about their use of AI . that be put most powerfully by my good friend , my hon . friend the Member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) . AI tool need to meet accuracy and non - discrimination standard , and they need to ensure that there be proper mechanism for challenge or redress when AI decision do — as inevitably they will — go wrong . instead , the White Paper promise a test and learn approach to regulation , which essentially translate to " hurt first , fix later " . this be a worrying approach for all involved . let we be clear : our country be face a choice right now about who benefit from the huge disruption that tech and AI will bring , and , in my hon . friend ' s word , we need to " stay sober " . will it be those who already hold wealth and power , or will it be the starter firm try to break in and disrupt the industry , the patient try to book an appointment with their gp , or the worker use technology to enhance and improve their role ? the UK have many brilliant AI company base here , and thriving sector such as life science and professional service , which can support and capitalise on new technology , but they risk be underutilise . the lack of certainty from the Government , who have no proper industrial strategy , be not only hold back UK tech business ; it be stifle economic growth at the bad possible time . the reality be that other country be already light year ahead . in Israel , police , fire and emergency service now come as a package deal , thank to AI technology . simple change , such as have different phone number to call for separate emergency service , have allow AI to play a central role in save life . of course , with any modernisation we must ensure that our law keep up . colleague will be aware that the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill be in Committee right now , and that important Bill will go some way to address the large monopoly that have be allow to proliferate online for far too long . yet again , the Government have be too slow to act on get the right balance between innovation and regulation . labour recognise the challenge ahead , and none of we want AI , or other intelligence technology , to operate without proper regulation . we recognise the concern about risk , from the immediate to the existential , which need to be handle with care . however , the Government have fail even to cover the basic in their AI White Paper . instead , they be do as they have with too many other policy area in this brief , and kick the can down the road with consultation and road map that will take up to two year to complete . I invite the Minister to imagine what technological development will take place during that timeline , and I urge the Department to hurry up and get on with the job . we have already hear that there be step the Government could be take right now to get ahead , include address grow call for regulation to address foundation AI model . it do not take an expert to recognise that AI system be not build from nothing , so what assessment have the Minister make of the merit of regulate those model now ? I be sure he would have widespread support from colleague , include those on the conservative Benches , about concern over AI , as well as from those who want to support start - up and scale - up , and who need clarity before develop their tech for the masse . we all want the UK tech industry to continue to thrive , but a responsible approach must also be part of that conversation . the Government have an obligation to protect their citizen , and give their approach to online safety , with their last - minute amendment that severely weaken the Online Safety Bill , it will come as no surprise that I have concern that this Government be not up to the job when it come to regulate AI . that be why the Government must work hard to ensure that our law be keep pace . the only way we can ensure that they do be to have a Government in power who will harness technology such as AI and constantly think to the future . it have become incredibly clear that that be not the Conservative Government ' s approach , and I be afraid that their line on tech be simply not get traction with the public , well rehearse though they be . it be all very well that the Prime Minister spend London Tech Week meeting AI ceo and announce that the UK will soon host a global summit on AI , but the Government have do little to reassure everyday work family that their life will be improve , not impact , by development in the tech industry . we can not put people ' s job at risk and simply hand they over to tech giant without thoughtful regulation . many of our constituent have already pay a heavy price thank to this Government ' s utter mishandling of the energy crisis and the increase cost of living . they deserve well than to have their job put at further risk if the Government fail to take a sensible approach to regulate tech and AI . there be also much work to be do to ensure that the opportunity afford by these sector truly be open to all . when we speak about AI and innovation , it can often feel as though it be a closed conversation , open only to those with specific educational path or career trajectory . although it be clear that the Prime Minister have a personal interest in the industry — frankly , I be not sure we hear much from his predecessor in recent year about it — the barrier still exist . ultimately , two - third of employer be struggle to recruit worker with digital skill . skill such as software engineering be no long sector specific , and the economy of the future will require those with digital skill across all industry . AI technology need more than just mathematician and statistician ; there be also strong demand for designer , creator and people who can think creatively . labour will ensure that we have the skill across our economy to win the global race for the technology of the future , by establish a new national body to oversee a national effort to meet the skill need of the come decade across all region and nation of the UK . the Government talk a great deal about level up , but we all know it must be more than just an empty slogan . I be keen to hear from the Minister about the exact step his Department be take to address these issue . lastly , and perhaps most importantly , these industry rely on our ability to get online . that be a simple premise for some , but the unfortunate reality be that it be not so easy for most people . the Government ' s so - call commitment to get people online be laughable . if they can not get the basic right , include a reliable , fast broadband connection , how on earth can people across the UK be reassure that this Government ' s approach to AI and tech will not see they bad off , too ? Broadband be central to power our increasingly digital economy , but the Government ' s slow roll - out have leave part of the UK , such as my hometown , stick decade behind . in addition , once people be online , the Government have fail to legislate to educate . the Government have fail to commit to strong medium literacy provision in the Online Safety Bill . in fact , those be drop in an early draft . how can we be assure that the Government will work to ensure that tech more widely be understand by the masse ? the Government could have put these simple policy in place year ago , but instead they focus their effort on land press coverage for their minimal announcement during London Tech Week , which will , let we be honest , change little for the life of the majority of people in the UK . on the other hand , Labour be listen . we be ambitious for technology such as AI , and we want to see they embed in our everyday service , whether to speed up welfare claim or diagnose patient in hospital . labour be committed to do so responsibly , and we will work in partnership with business to face the future and address the challenge , opportunity and risk head - on . the Government ' s record on AI be limited , and far too often it be a case of too little , too late . those in the industry be desperate for guidance , and Labour be all too ready to provide that clarity . I hope the Minister be listen . I start by convey my appreciation to my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) for secure today ' s debate and for speak so powerfully in opening what have be on the whole — until the word soup of the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , which I will cover in a second — a thoughtful debate about this important and complex topic . we have have some consider speech , and I will touch on some of those . we hear from the Chairman of the Business and Trade Committee , the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , about the risk to worker . my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) speak about how we have to choose our word carefully and keep cool head in regulation , and that go to the heart of what we be talk about today . the hon . member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) talk about how , instead of constrain the technology , the Government be let it off the leash , and I do not think that be right . when we talk about the AI White Paper , it be the flexibility that keep it up to date , rather than it be out of date . we hear from my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) and for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) , and the hon . member for Ochil and South Perthshire ( John Nicolson ) talk about the gig he get to go to . in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , we have the sharp focus to look at AI and the digital skill that the hon . member for Pontypridd be talk about . six month ago , when I be in the Department for Digital , Culture , Media and Sport , I have to leave a digital economy council meeting to go to a dinner with Dell . when I explain that , they say , " you ' re go to dinner with Adele ? " I say , " no , it isn ' t . it be just Dell , unfortunately . " we now have that sharp focus to address the AI White Paper . first , let I talk about the fact that AI be fast become part of our daily life . it be in our phone , our car , our office and our workplace . the explosion in the use of AI tool such as DALL - E , Midjourney , ChatGPT and Bard show that we be on the cusp of a new era of artificial intelligence . as my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness rightly assert , it have the potential to bring enormous benefit to our society , and we must always remember that . we have to be aware of the risk and manage they carefully on an international basis , which be sum up by the global summit that the Prime Minister be host here this autumn , but we must always look to the opportunity , too , and how AI will change the world . that include in the NHS , where the use of automated lip reader such as Liopa be bring a voice to the voiceless by improve treatment for patient who can not speak , and where risk prediction tool , such as the Scottish Patients at risk of Readmission and Admission tool , or SPARRA , can provide GPs in Scotland with monthly risk score for patient and predict the likelihood of their being admit to hospital . AI can also change our economy , drive great consumer choice , efficiency and productivity . one only have to look at AI ' s impact through the widespread use of virtual assistant such as Siri , Cortana , Google Assistant and Alexa to see how AI be help consumer to manage their daily life more efficiently . however , there be unique risk , too , so it be right that government around the world play their part in ensure that this technology be develop and apply in a safe , transparent way . in the UK , the Government have long recognise the transformative potential of this technology , and we have seek to be ahead of the curve . with respect , I say to the hon . member for Pontypridd that since 2014 we have invest £ 2 . 5 billion in build a thriving AI ecosystem ; we be recognise as have the third big AI ecosystem in the world after America and China . the AI sector deal that we announce back in 2018 be follow by our national AI strategy in 2021 . that set out our 10 - year vision for ensure that the UK remain at the forefront of the AI revolution by invest in skill and infrastructure , drive adoption across sector , and govern AI effectively through regulation , technical standard and assurance . the House will know that my right hon . friend the Prime Minister lay out his ambition for the UK on AI at London Tech Week early this month . that ambition be for we to lead at home and abroad , and to lead change in our public service . a theme discuss at some length today be the regulatory environment for artificial intelligence . as hon . member will know , the Government commit to review the AI regulatory and governance landscape in our national AI strategy . we subsequently publish our AI regulation White Paper in March . the approach that the White Paper advocate be proportionate and adaptable . the propose regulatory framework draw on the expertise of regulator . it support they in consider AI in their sector by apply a set of high - level principle , which be outcome - focus and design to promote responsible AI innovation and adoption . we will work with and through regulator and other in the sector . on the criticism of the White Paper , I have to say that industry support our plan . we engage with over 130 organisation on the proposal last year , and developer , business user and funder praise the flexibility of our approach , which will support innovation and build public trust . the White Paper remain very much in date because of its flexibility . those who have read it know that its outcome - focused , adaptable approach be deliberately design to allow we to manage emerge and unforeseen risk , as well as those risk that we already know about . the White Paper propose a number of central support function , which will be initially provide from within Government , but we will leverage activity and expertise from across the broad economy where possible . that will ensure that the framework effectively address AI risk in a way that be proportionate , future - proof and responsive . several people raise the issue of international co - operation . there we have show true leadership . no country can tackle AI on its own , give its global nature . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister announce early this month that we will host the first major global summit on AI safety this autumn . the summit will consider the risk of AI , include frontier system , and will discuss how those risk can be mitigate through internationally co - ordinate action . the summit will also be a platform where country can work together on develop a shared approach to mitigate risk . however , the summit can not be view in isolation . it build on the extensive work that we have do on strengthen AI safety with the OECD , the Council of Europe , the Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence , and the UN , and through the G7 Hiroshima AI process . bilaterally , we have also make great stride in co - ordinating on AI safety with key international partner . in June , the UK sign the atlantic declaration with the US , in which we agree to accelerate co - operation on AI , with a focus on ensure its safe and responsible development . far , in May , the UK agree the Hiroshima accord with Japan , in which we commit to focus UK - Japan AI discussion on promote human - centric and trustworthy AI , and on interoperability between our AI governance framework . we intend to go even far . as per the G7 Hiroshima leader May 2023 communiqu é , we have commit to advance international discussion on inclusive AI governance and interoperability to achieve our common vision and goal of trustworthy AI that be align with share democratic value . the hon . member for Ochil and South Perthshire speak about AI in the creative industry . obviously , the advent of AI have send ripple of transformation across multiple industry , and the creative sphere be no exception . there be plenty of opportunity there , but there be also challenge that we have to address . the ability to automate creative task mean that , in some case , work such as copywriting , which could have take hour if not day , could now take merely a few minute . some member speak about the risk of homogenise creativity , with the obvious concern about intellectual property that stem from that . again , I think it be right that we strike an appropriate balance in the regulation of AI to ensure that we do not stifle innovation , but that we ensure we protect the UK ' s thrive creative industry . in conclusion , the Government remain entirely committed to ensure that AI develop and be apply safely not just here , but around the world . by effectively address the risk that member have highlight today , we can also seize the many opportunity that AI have to offer , from transform our NHS with the discovery of new drug , new treatment and new way of support patient , to help we race ahead to net zero and build a greener , fair , strong economy . we want to continue engage with member across this House , along with our partner in industry and academia , to deliver on those mission . we want to build the broad possible coalition to ensure that the appropriate guard rail be in place for this technology to develop in a safe , fair and transparent way that will keep the UK right at the forefront of the AI revolution now and in the future . that be our vision and , work with hon . member across the House , that be what we will deliver . I thank all member who contribute to what have be an important and , I hope , informative debate . we discuss a number of issue whose impact on humanity will be profound . I want to touch briefly on discrimination , which the hon . member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) raise . if we get AI right , it will be the end of so much of the discrimination that have blight society . if we get it wrong , it will supercharge it . if we have our eye on one thing for the future impact of AI , it must be fairness : fairness for worker across the country to take advantage of a technology that will make their job well and their life happy and healthy ; and fairness for people who have previously see discrimination . this technology will change huge aspect of this country . I be confident that the Government ' s approach , and the summit the Minister allude to just a few second ago , will be a key part in Britain show leadership ; that this be a country where our value , which be so firmly against discrimination and so firmly in favour of opportunity , fairness and innovation , can lead the world . the summit will be a hugely important moment for the future of a technology that will shape our world . I look forward to the Prime Minister play an important role in that and I look forward to the development of the policy the Minister outline , to all our benefit . I thank everyone for the debate . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider artificial intelligence . Migration and Economic Development Partnership with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement about the UK ' s migration and economic development partnership with Rwanda . the Government fundamentally believe that it be only by remove the incentive for people to take dangerous and unnecessary journey that we will stop the boat and end the vicious cycle of people smuggle to UK shore . that be why my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) sign our groundbreaking migration and economic development partnership with Rwanda in April last year . the agreement allow individual who arrive in the UK through dangerous , unnecessary and illegal route to be relocate to Rwanda for the consideration of their asylum claim and to build a new life there . I visit Kigali in March , meet Rwanda ' s President and Foreign Minister , and sign an update to our memorandum of understanding that would bring it into line with our Illegal Migration Bill . Rwanda reiterate its commitment and capacity to receive thousand of individual , process their claim and provide they with excellent care before they be transition to long - term accommodation , with all the necessary support and service . and it be why , under the term of that agreement , we attempt our first relocation flight to Rwanda : to demonstrate that if you come here illegally , you will be remove to a safe third country for your claim to be process . importantly , Rwanda be a country where the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees itself operate an emergency transit scheme for migrant from Libya , and with which we have a robust agreement to protect asylum seeker from risk of harm . that first relocation flight be , unfortunately , frustrate by last - minute measure from the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg , which have have the effect of pause flight while our domestic legal proceeding be ongoing . in December , the Divisional Court of the High Court comprehensively uphold the lawfulness of the partnership , confirm that Rwanda be a safe country . that judgment be appeal to the Court of Appeal , which hear the appeal in April and hand down its judgment early today . I respect the Court and welcome the fact that it unanimously find in the Government ' s favour on the vast majority of the appeal bring against the policy . unanimously , the Court of Appeal confirm that remove asylum seeker to a safe country be entirely consistent with the Refugee convention , include article 31 . the Court of Appeal find that it be lawful , in principle , for the Government to relocate people who come to the UK illegally to a safe third country ; that the Government can designate country as safe ; and that our process for determine eligibility for relocation be fair . unfortunately , two judge be of the view that there be deficiency in the Rwanda asylum system that risk a breach of article 3 of the european convention on human right . importantly , their concern be not that condition in Rwanda would be unsafe , but that there be a possibility that they could be return to other country from Rwanda where they may suffer ill treatment . it be therefore simply incorrect to say that the Court have find that condition in Rwanda make it unsafe for individual there . the Court of Appeal have merely rule that there be a risk of refoulement from Rwanda to other country . the Lord Chief Justice take a different view . agree with the High Court , he hold that there be no real risk of individual be send to unsafe country . he cite the strong assurance give by the Rwandan Government , the fact that Rwanda do not have return agreement with those country , and the powerful protection provide by monitor arrangement that would be in place . the result be that the High Court ' s decision that Rwanda be a safe third country for the purpose of asylum relocation be reverse . we have a strong relationship with Rwanda . both side remain committed to the policy . Rwanda be a signatory to the United Nations convention and have a strong track record of support refugee — include for the UNHCR . this be a disappointing judgment , and we will seek permission to appeal it . we hope that the process will be swift . I be glad that the Court of Appeal have recognise in paragraph 16 of its summary judgment that it be an important consideration that should be deal with in a timely fashion . the judgment be disappointing for the majority of the british people , who have repeatedly vote for control migration , and for all those who want to see we deliver on our moral and democratic imperative to stop the boat . I be sure that all member of this House would agree that the british public be compassionate , reasonable and fair minded . since 2015 , we have welcome half a million people in need from all over the world , via our global safe and legal route , as well as via our country - specific route encompass Ukraine , Hong Kong , Afghanistan and Syria . but the british public be not naive . while our compassion to help people may be infinite , the public understand that our capacity to do so be finite and therefore precious . the british people will no long indulge the polite fiction that we have a duty or infinite capacity to support everyone in the world who be flee persecution , nor anyone that would simply like to come here to improve their lot and succeed in make it to our shore . that abuse be unfair on local community force to absorb thousand of illegal arrival and the pressure on public service and social cohesion that this entail . it be unfair on taxpayer who foot the hotel bill — currently run to £ 6 million a day , and that could rise to £ 32 million a day by 2026 — for people who have break into this country . it be unfair on those who play by the rule , and who want to see an asylum system that be fit for purpose , that our current system be exploit and turn against we by those with no right to be in the UK . it be unfair on those most in need of protection — particularly woman , child , and those without the money to pay people smuggler — that our asylum system be overwhelm by fit young man who have pay criminal thousand of pound to smuggle they into the UK . it be unfair on people , and our partner in the develop world , that we in the west continue to maintain an asylum system so open to abuse that it incentivise mass flow of economic migration into Europe , line the pocket of people smuggler and turn our sea into graveyard , all in the name of a phoney humanitarianism . this be madness , and it must end . that that be why we , on the Government Benches , be commit to do whatever it take to stop the boat . the Government remain resolute that we will do exactly that , in partnership with Rwanda , and through change to our law . that be the only way we will break the business model of the people smuggler , that be the only way we will save life , and that be the only way we will stop the boat . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . today ' s judgment show that the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary have no plan to fix the Tories ' small boat chaos . their only policy , to send everyone to Rwanda , be now completely unravelling . minister have admit that it will cost £ 169 , 000 to send each person to Rwanda — on top of the £ 140 million cheque that they have already write , with more cost to come — but now the court have find that they do not even do the basic work to make sure that the Rwanda scheme be legal or safe . over four year , this Tory boat crisis have grow and grow , and the Government have completely break the asylum system . they have fail to stop criminal gang take hold along our border — gang that have see their profit soar from £ 3 million four year ago to more than £ 180 million today . they promise four year ago that they would end boat crossing in six month , but the number have increase more than twentyfold since then . conviction for people smuggling have drop , asylum decision making have collapse — down by a third — but the cost of the asylum system have soar . a fivefold increase in the cost for just one person in the asylum system be no one else ' s fault ; it be just Tory mismanagement and chaos , result in a backlog that have soar to a record high of 175 , 000 . the projection of the Home Office itself be that those Tory failure will rise to a cost of £ 11 billion . that be the cost of the Government ' s failure — and instead of get a grip on any of that , all they can come up with be gimmick to make thing bad . this Rwanda scheme be unworkable , unethical , extortionately expensive , and a costly and damaging distraction from the urgent practical action that we should be take — from the plan that Labour have set out to stop waste all this money on a fail Rwanda scheme and instead to go after the criminal gang , and to secure a strong agreement with France and sort out the massive backlog that be cost a fortune : action to stop the dangerous boat crossing that be undermine our border security and put life at risk . the Home Secretary have defend her Rwanda plan , but this be what the judgment reveal . not only will it cost £ 169 , 000 for each person , as well as the £ 140 million cheque that have be send ; accord to the Lord Chief Justice , there will be substantial sum of future aid support . how much ? the Government be expect Rwanda to take asylum decision under a memorandum of understanding , but the judgment reveal that the rwandan asylum system take only about 100 decision a year at the moment , and have a 100 % rejection rate for Afghanistan , Syria and Yemen . under the Israel Rwanda deal , the Government breach the memorandum of understanding . People be routinely target by agent and gang and move clandestinely to Uganda , which have make traffic bad . the judgment also say that Rwanda have only one committee that take all the asylum decision and only one eligibility officer prepare case . so on the idea that the Government be go to be able to deliver on their pledge , even the Lord Chief Justice , who find that the scheme could be lawful , have say that it be only on the basis that the scheme be small — just 100 people . the Home Secretary talk again today about thousand of people be send . the Lord Chief Justice say that " the talk of Rwanda , within a few year , be a destination for thousand of asylum seeker " be " political hyperbole " . a hundred people be less than 0 . 5 % of those who arrive in the UK , so no wonder the Home Office admit there be no evidence that it will act as a deterrent . it be a total con on the british people . there be two question for the Home Secretary . do she agree with the Lord Chief Justice that " thousand " be " political hyperbole " and that , even if she succeed , it will just be a few hundred instead ? and how long be she go to keep waste all of this taxpayer ' money on a fail policy and waste everybody ' s time on ramp up the rhetoric rather than come up with a serious plan ? this afternoon , the Independent Chief Inspector of Borders and Immigration set out a damn indictment of the Tory Home Office and its ability to pursue casework or have accurate datum . it say that in the Home Office , " there be no single version of the truth " and conclude that " this be no way to run a government department . " but this Home Secretary be run it . she be run this chaos , fail to sort out the boat chaos , fail to clear the backlog or mend the broken asylum system , fail to get a grip . I do not doubt that she will now stand up and read from her pre - prepare script , blame everyone else and make up stuff all about the Labour party rather than answer the two question that she have be ask , rather than answer anybody ' s question about the decision that she have make . [ interruption . ] she be in charge . the Tories have be in charge for 13 year . this be their chaos — their Tory chaos , their boat chaos and their broken asylum system . we do not need more slogan ; we need solution . we do not need more gimmick ; we need a Government with a grip . she be clearly not capable of it , so why do she not move over and give way to someone else ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her pre - prepare script as well — very well deliver . I have to say , she seem unusually upbeat today , which I find , frankly , quite odd , give that today ' s judgment will be frustrating for the majority of the british people who have repeatedly vote for control migration , for all those who want to see this Government deliver on our promise to stop the boat . I can not help but contrast that public sentiment of disappointment with her excitement and delight today . as so many of her colleague on the Opposition Benches be cheer this decision , we see an opposite view here . today be a bad day for the british people . today be a good day for the people smuggler . it be a good day for Labour . as ever from the shadow Home Secretary , there be no regard for the will of the british people . I know she see the will of the british people as an inconvenience and an irritation , because her statement demonstrate that she simply have no empathy for the impact of illegal migration on local community . she fail and refuse to recognise that those cross by small boat be do so illegally . as ever from Labour , there be no alternative plan , and moreover , it do not care that it have no alternative plan . the truth be that our current system be rig against the british people . that be why we be change the law . the Labour party be perfectly content with this rig system . Labour Members would like to keep it in place . that be why they be oppose our Illegal Migration Bill . that be why they would scrap our partnership with Rwanda . rather than propose any meaningful reform to the asylum system , Labour would keep the system as it be to enable more people to come to the country illegally so that they can be settle into local community more quickly . that be simply open border masquerade as humanitarianism , and she should be honest with the british people . I wonder if the right hon . Lady have actually read the judgment , give she gleeful disposition . let I repeat some of it to she . although the Court of Appeal do find by majority , with a dissent view from the Lord Chief Justice , that there be deficiency in the rwandan asylum system , specifically relate to the risk of refoulement , all other ground on which the appeal be bring be unanimously dismiss . that mean the policy do not breach our obligation under the UN refugee convention and do not breach our domestic law , as she and the opposition have consistently maintain . as I have say , we will seek permission to appeal the disappointing aspect of the judgment , but I think the british people will see quite clearly that , while we be try to stop the boat , Labour have simply obstruct progress time and time again and have offer no solution . the Prime Minister and I have promise to do whatever it take to stop the boat ; Labour have apparently pledge to do whatever it take to stop we stop the boat . order . this statement be about migration , not the Labour party . this be about what the Government be do , I do not want to interfere or intervene , but we need to stick to what the statement be mean to be about . in conclusion , in any event , while Labour continue to celebrate today ' s judgment and continue to celebrate every obstacle in our way , we will not be deter and will not give up . we will do whatever it take to stop the boat for the british people . while respect the authority of the Court of Appeal , I share the Home Secretary ' s disappointment at its judgment . I welcome the fact that she will take the judgment to the Supreme Court . do the Home Secretary think that the case before the Supreme Court will be strengthen if she bring forward the safe and legal route now write into the Illegal Migration Bill , so that there be clear option for genuine asylum seeker not to have to use irregular or illegal route ? secondly , can she write into the Rwanda agreement a default position that , if the Rwandan Government try to move these people on to a third country , a right of appeal could be hear in the United Kingdom ? do she not think those measure might strengthen her case before the Supreme Court ? we have hear not a scintilla of a practical solution to this problem from the Opposition Front Bench ? my hon . friend make a good point , and I be grateful for his constructive input . the Illegal Migration Bill , which be currently make its way through Parliament , make reference to and contain provision relate to safe and legal route , and we be in discussion about how and when those route will be roll out . they be an important element of our overall plan to stop the boat . it be vital that we support genuine claimant in need of support , which be why I be very proud of our track record of support and welcome half a million people to the United Kingdom through humanitarian route in recent year . I call the SNP spokesperson I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement . the Home Secretary say she be disappoint by the High Court ' s decision , but be she not be a bit coy ? be she not delighted ? be this not exactly what the Government want all along ? a fight with the judiciary , a fight with the House of Lords and triangulate the official Opposition , do this not play straight into their dog - whistle agenda ? the human right of people flee war , oppression and famine be simply an afterthought . the economic impact assessment finally drag out of the Government last week show the eye - water potential cost to the taxpayer of the Rwanda scheme and the wide implication of the Illegal Migration Bill . on top of the £ 120 million that the Home Secretary have already pay to Rwanda , why be she now determined to put even more cost on the public purse by far appeal this ruling to the Supreme Court ? or have that also be part of the plan all along ? she say that her dream be of plane full of refugee take off for Rwanda , but be she not actually dream of the opportunity to take the UK out of the european convention on human right ? Scotland want no part of the Tories ' hostile immigration environment . despite the ludicrous claim of the Minister for Immigration early in the week , Glasgow and community across Scotland be proud to welcome refugee . we need immigration to help develop our economy and enrich our society and culture , and we want to offer refuge to those who need it most . while the Government refuse to devolve immigration power to Scotland , they need to accept the court ' s rule that their illegal migration policy be themselves illegal . it be time to establish instead safe and legal route for people who be flee war , famine and climate change . at the very least , the Government need to pay attention to the amendment pass and about to be pass in the House of Lords . the Home Secretary urgently need to respond to the Council of Europe ' s anti - torture committee , which have find incident of inhumane and degrading treatment of asylum seeker at the Manston facility . ultimately , the message from the Court be clear : enough with the language of , " stop the boat " , it be time to stop the Bill . as the hon . Gentleman can imagine , I disagree with pretty much everything he have just say . in particular , I want to make it clear that I have the utmost respect for the Court of Appeal . senior judge consider this appeal in the right and proper manner . we maintain our respect for the judiciary , but it be entirely legitimate for we to disagree with point they have make in certain finding . that be why we have make it clear that we disagree with some of the finding deliver today in the judgment , which be why we be seek permission to appeal against they . let we be clear : the SNP be interested in asylum seeker only if they be house elsewhere in the United Kingdom . just last week , the SNP Government and the labour leader of Edinburgh Council conspire to oppose our use a vessel to accommodate asylum seeker in Leith — that same vessel , in the same berth , have until recently house Ukrainians — despite this have be value for money , despite be offer more cash to help and despite Edinburgh take few than its fair share of asylum seeker . it be staggering to witness the stench of hypocrisy that hang heavy over the SNP ' s fake humanitarianism . meanwhile , constituency be overwhelmed , as local service will be at RAF Scampton . what alternative plan be there ? do the Home Secretary not realise that every year we produce a migration Bill and we be tie up in knot by human right lawyer ? what we have be suggest for two year in the Common Sense Group be that the refugee convention be make for a different world , as be the human right convention , and we simply must have a derogation , so that we can detain people and then deport they . we will never solve this problem otherwise . again , I put on record my thank to my right hon . friend and his community for their support on RAF Scampton . I know that they have very serious concern , and we be work intensively with he and the local authority to enable the site to be roll out and the appropriate support to be put on for those who will be occupy it . on the legal framework , he make a very powerful point . last year , we see the Strasbourg court operate in a way that be opaque , irregular and unfair when it come to the will of the british people . that be why we have include measure in our legislation that be make its way through Parliament to avoid that scenario repeat itself . have crash the economy , impoverish so many of my constituent with the Tory mortgage premium and utterly fail to deliver the economic prosperity that they need , the Government ' s one policy that be suppose to distract from all this chaos be now show to be , as we have always say , unworkable , as well as be immoral and eye - wateringly expensive . why do the Home Secretary not just fix the asylum system , instead of try to outsource it ? it be pretty rich of the hon . Lady to complain about our plan , give that her party have put forward a series of botched policy , flip - flop , u - turn and change on the economy and energy price . moreover , when it come to stop the boat and illegal migration , Labour Members have no plan . they do not speak for the british people ; they speak for their vested interest . they would rather campaign to stop the deportation of foreign criminal and vote against every measure we have put forward to reform our asylum system than be on the side of the british people and stop the boat . we all know that the Home Secretary ' s instinct on this be right . however , the wide Government promise to stop the boat and clearly we have not stop they yet , so I fully support her decision to seek leave to appeal to the Supreme Court , as I think will most people in this country . give legal procedural issue and judicial recess , it could take month for the case to reach the Supreme Court , let alone for a judgment to be hand down . in the meantime , the boat will keep come , now probably all summer . may I ask the Home Secretary two question ? first , with her extensive legal experience , can anything be practicably do to expedite the Supreme Court ' s decision in this case ? secondly , be my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) right that the only way we will ultimately solve the problem be to achieve a derogation from the ECHR ? order . before the Home Secretary answer those two question , I have be very lenient to the right hon . Gentleman but that do not set a precedent . each Member who ask a question get one question . on this occasion I will allow the Home Secretary to answer both question , but I be not create a precedent . one question , and we do not need an opening preamble either — just a question . my right hon . friend speak powerfully . on the timeline to which we be subject , the Court of Appeal have ask for submission on permission to appeal by 6 July . we will adhere to that timetable , which I think he would agree be swift . thereafter , it be in the hand of the Court . I be encourage by paragraph 16 of the summary judgment , which note the need for swiftness when consider the matter , but ultimately the Court set the timetable and we will follow any timeline it set . some 160 , 000 asylum seeker languish in this country be await a decision . would the good deterrent not be competence in process those 160 , 000 people and return the one who be not genuine refugee ? would that not send out a message ? can a comparison not be make between what have happen today and the backlog of 160 , 000 asylum seeker , as both be down to the incompetence of the Home Secretary , who seem distract by play game ? this be not about play game ; it be about save life . diminish it in that way do not do justice to the complexity and the enormity of the challenge that we be all face . we be make progress . as the Prime Minister set out a few week ago , we be make progress on the legacy backlog of the initial decision , which have fall by 17 , 000 . that be thank to measure and intervention that we have introduce , include streamline the process , increase the number of caseworker and make decision in a swifter fashion . step by step , we will bear down on the backlog , as we have promise to do so . my constituent in Kettering be completely feed up with Labour ' s opposition and delay to the Illegal Migration Bill , and with the court frustrate the Rwanda plan . will the Home Secretary answer this question for my constituent : how on earth can Rwanda be deem not to be a safe country , when the UN Refugee Agency itself have its own asylum scheme , part fund by the European Union , to send asylum seeker to Rwanda ? my hon . friend make a very good point and I refer he to the dissent judgment of the Lord Chief Justice . it be quite a long judgment , but if he have the time he should read paragraph 498 particularly , which set out similar point to his . the Lord Chief Justice find that there be strong ground to disagree with the other judge and that there be no real risk of people who be be relocate to Rwanda be treat in an unsafe or unlawful way . I take a lot of confidence from his dissent judgment . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I receive support on these issue from the Refugee , Asylum and Migration Policy project . I be also co - chair of the all - party group on migration . would the Secretary of State be willing to sit down with I and some afghan refugee who arrive on small boat and explain what she mean in her statement by " phoney humanitarianism " , which , I hope member agree , be a deeply offensive phrase ? I have meet refugee and I have meet people who have flee persecution and seek humanitarian protection . I be very proud of what this country have offer and the tradition of the british people to extend the hand of friendship and compassion to those in need . we have 500 , 000 people come to our shore , flee persecution for humanitarian purpose . what I object to be people flee a safe country such as France , pay evil people - smuggle gang , risk their life and the life of other in the pursuit of an illegal trade . that be what we be try to stop and I wish the hon . Lady would get behind it . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement and for her assurance that she will appeal this as quickly as possible , because , as my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) say , speed be of the essence . my constituent want to see a fair and just asylum system , the boat stop and the people smuggler put out of business once and for all . do she share my despair that the only answer we hear from Opposition Members be , " we win ' t have a queue when we just open the door " ? again , my hon . friend be absolutely right . opposition Members would rather put all their effort into campaigning to stop we deport foreign criminal than support our legislation to stop the boat . they would rather vote against all our measure to improve our asylum system than stop the boat . they be a joke . they be not on the side of the british people . they be on the wrong side of this argument again . I call Jim Shannon . rise — it do not mean that we be at the end of the statement . it just mean that , in the circumstance , I be be kind to the hon . member for Strangford . I be sure the Secretary of State be say , " great , it be all over . " I jest , but it be not fair to do so , because it be a very serious matter . although I agree with the Secretary of State that there must be an end to boatload of young refugee circumnavigate the system in place , the Court have determine that the risk of refoulement from Rwanda to other country mean that the Government ' s policy can not be carry out legally . will the Secretary of State outline how she believe the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland can stop the influx while fulfil our human right obligation , which be not just a legal matter , but a moral one . the hon . Gentleman be right : this be not just a legal matter ; it be a moral one and it be of a political salience that I have not see for a long time in our country . the vast majority of the british people want we to stop the boat . they want we to fix this problem . that be why I be encourage with every step that we take on this journey . the reality be that we believe in the lawfulness of our agreement with Rwanda , and , as the Court find , the condition in which people will be accommodate in Rwanda per se be lawful and they will be treat lawfully and humanely . it be about whether there be a risk of refoulement — of they be relocate on to a third country that may not be safe . that be the point of dispute in the judgment . we be seek permission to appeal . we believe in the lawfulness of this scheme and we have confidence in deliver it as soon as possible . a 33 - year - old man seek asylum and house in a hotel in Skegness have very recently be charge with the rape of a stranger in a public park . the Home Secretary know how outraged people in Skegness be . she know from our conversation how outraged I be . do she agree that any setback to the Government ' s policy to stop the boat will be greet with horror by people in Skegness , that she should appeal the judgment as quickly as possible , that she should pursue the Illegal Migration Bill through Parliament as quickly as possible , and that anyone try to stand in the way of that be fundamentally disagree with the rightly hold legitimate view of constituent such as mine ? my hon . friend put it very well , and from our discussion I know how energetically he be advocate on behalf of his local community as they bear some of the burden of this national challenge . it be a fallacy — one that those on the Opposition Benches seem to indulge time and again — that everyone on these boat be come for humanitarian purpose and flee some form of persecution . the reality be that a large proportion of they be come for economic reason . many of they have choose deliberately to leave a safe country such as France and to pay people - smuggle gang large amount of money in pursuit of a life in the United Kingdom — not as a refugee , not for humanitarian reason . that pose public safety issue . the protection of our border be about national security . that be why it be imperative and essential that we fix the problem and stop the boat . we have learn a few thing today : first , that the Home Secretary respect the court , for which we should be grateful ; secondly , that after 13 year the Government have a rig system ; and thirdly , that we be go to continue to pour taxpayer ' money into her fail system . in August , her Bill will stop asylum decision and mean that people in detention will not be move on far . give the number of people we already have in hotel , how many more detention centre and hotel be she go to need , and at what cost ? what we know be that 45 , 000 people arrive here illegally last year and it be cost the taxpayer £ 6 million per day in hotel accommodation , total £ 3 billion per year to service our asylum system . that be an unacceptable situation . we be propose a plan through our Illegal Migration Bill that say that , if someone arrive here illegally , they will be detain and thereafter swiftly remove . that , in combination with our world - lead partnership with Rwanda , will inject the deterrence necessary to stop the boat . unless we actually believe in open border , we simply have to have a policy of detain and remove illegal immigrant , either back to their own country or to a safe third country . there really be not any other option , so the policy be the right one . I be glad that the court have conclude that the policy complie with the Geneva convention and that Rwanda itself be a safe country ; the problem , as the Home Secretary have be say , be with onward relocation . previously , the Government negotiate a deal with Jordan that enable the return of Abu Qatada . do the Home Secretary agree that to win our appeal , it might be necessary to get some sort of commitment from the Rwandan Government that they will not refoule asylum seeker to place where they might be persecute ? will she undertake to negotiate with the Government of Rwanda to achieve that , and how quickly do she think we might get the plane to take off ? we be in constant and ongoing discussion with our partner in Rwanda . I be grateful for their statement today , which reiterate and reconfirm their commitment to our partnership and their determination to deliver it . they have a strong track record of support 100 , 000 migrant and refugee from their region , and they work with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees . Rwanda be a safe country , as we maintain . however , we will always review our arrangement to ensure that they be in the good possible state . one of my constituent have apply for his wife and daughter to come to the UK from Afghanistan , where their human right as a woman and a girl be be deny by the Taliban on a daily basis . the Home Office refuse their application , but a court disagree and rule that they should be allow to come . my constituent be distraught that the Home Secretary be choose to appeal , seek to stop this family flee persecution and be reunite in the UK via a safe and legal route . why do she think it be a justifiable use of taxpayer ' money to keep challenge the decision of our court , as she have announce today she will do in relation to the inhumane and fail Rwanda scheme , rather than take responsibility for the failure on her watch ? what be inhumane , I be afraid , be the Opposition ' s stance on this subject . they maintain a principled objection — a ludicrous objection , frankly — to our measure , which will save life , which be humanitarian at core and which will break the people - smuggle gang . the fact that they continue to oppose those humanitarian measure be beyond I and frankly not in keep with the tradition of the Labour party . I speak with a constituent on Victoria Street , Grimsby a few week ago . he say to I that we will never send illegal migrant back to Rwanda because the left - wing establishment will never allow it to happen . be he right ? the Prime Minister and I have make a promise to the british people to stop the boat . I believe that that be what the british people want we to do fervently and passionately . we be work flat out day in , day out to deliver the measure , to deliver our Bill , to deliver the extra resource and to deliver our partnership with Rwanda . I believe that we will deliver on that promise , and we will get there in the end . the only policy idea that the Government have be unravel in front of our eye . they have build an entire piece of legislation around an idea that be just not work . they also admit that delay in process asylum claim be part of their deterrence strategy . what be the Home Secretary ' s back - up plan ? well , what be the hon . Lady ' s plan ? her plan be to throw a bit more money at the National Crime Agency , speed up the asylum system and add more safe and legal route . frankly , that be not a plan . I really urge those on the Labour Benches to take a long , hard look at what they be propose , because they do not have a plan to stop the boat . what they be propose be open border and uncontrolle migration . it be not a plan and it be not what the british people want . I believe that this be fundamentally a question of democracy : the british people have repeatedly vote for control of immigration , and my Newcastle - under - Lyme constituent expect we to stop the boat . I be grateful for the confirmation in today ' s rule that the policy itself be legal . will the Home Secretary do whatever be necessary — be it by appeal the ruling , by get a memorandum of understanding with the Rwandans on the point on which the Government lose , or through legislation in this House — to ensure that we deliver on that promise and stop the boat ? my hon . friend speak for the british people in his powerful question . my answer be simple : yes . contrary to what the Home Secretary have just tell the House , the vast majority of those in the boat be Iranians and Afghans — just 1 % be Albanians . Iranians and Afghans have an asylum grant rate of 98 % , because — surprise , surprise , give what be happen in those country — they be refugee flee persecution . the only phoney thing here be the Home Secretary ' s attempt to avoid responsibility for spend so much taxpayer ' money on a policy on which — go by the judgment , and yes , I have read it — she clearly do not do her due diligence . the Home Secretary will have have to put forward a budget . she say that the Government will do whatever it take to make this policy work . be they go to spend whatever it take ? will she be honest with the british public about how much money she have allocate to continue on this folly to save her blush in the run - up to the general election ? it could go towards processing case and get the backlog down . I be not in the business of take lecture from Labour on this issue . how much money ? the reality be that last year , 12 , 000 albanian come — how much money ? order . the hon . Lady have ask her question . it be discourteous for she to sit there repeat it when the Home Secretary be answer it . a bit of courtesy be necessary on all side . last year , 30 % of those arrive on the boat come from Albania , a safe country — a country from which they be not feasibly flee persecution or torture — so it be , again , a fallacy to suggest that everyone come on the boat be somehow vulnerable or be come here for humanitarian reason . the vast majority be young , healthy man . the vast majority be pay willingly for those journey . they be procure they from people - smuggle gang — criminal gang — and they be come here , knowingly and willingly break our law , to seek a well life . that be not what humanitarian protection be all about . that be not what refugee status be all about . that be why we need to stop the boat . I agree with the Lord Chief Justice . despite what we have hear from Opposition Members , one of the three judge think we be right ; these be finely balanced issue . of course , the court be preoccupy not so much with the ability of Rwanda to host asylum seeker but with its ability to process their claim . we might find that other country be willing to work with we but be also not able to evidence their ability to process claim as well as they can evidence their ability to look after people . will my right hon . friend update the House on plan to allow we to process the claim ourselves while people be in a third country , so that we can overcome some of these barrier ? we have in recent month put in a huge amount of extra resource focus on the processing of asylum claim . we have increase the number of caseworker , and we be on track to have over 2 , 000 case - worker by September . we have improve and streamline the process , and we have simplify the guidance , so that we can make decision and process case more quickly . I actually agree with one thing that the Home Secretary have say today : this be hugely frustrating , because the majority of people in this country do want to see an end to the vile , evil people smuggle that be cost life in the channel . but perhaps the time have come to accept that this immoral , unworkable , expensive scheme , which have now also be find to be illegal , be not the correct way to go about it . perhaps the Home Secretary might consider the voice from all side of the House that be say , " add more safe legal route , clamp down on the people smuggler , end the backlog and fix the system . " what be immoral be the position that the Lib Dems have take in this whole debate . by oppose our humanitarian plan to save life and stop the people - smuggle gang , they have put themselves on the same side as the criminal people - smuggle gang and as open border . that be what be not moral . that be not what will save life , and that be not what will stop the boat . let we be clear : we all want to see an end to the small boat crossing , and it be wrong of the Home Secretary to try to mischaracterise the Labour position on that front . but the Rwanda policy — if we can call it a policy — be never go to make sufficient inroad into the number of people seek asylum here to make any difference at all . as the shadow Home Secretary say , it be political hyperbole and it be a total con . I ask the Home Secretary again — and this time , perhaps she will not try to make I answer the question — what be her plan if Rwanda be not an opportunity for the Government to address the issue ? it be not over yet . this be a Court of Appeal judgment . we have make it clear that we be seek permission to appeal it , and we will await the outcome of the next level in the process and the next decision from the court . it be premature to assume that this be the end of the policy . we maintain a high level of confidence in the lawfulness of the policy . we be committed to deliver it and to work in partnership with Rwanda . today ' s judgment say that Rwanda ' s physical capacity for housing asylum seeker be limit to 100 people . that represent less than 0 . 5 % of the people who cross the channel last year . why on earth , then , have the Government already give £ 140 million to Rwanda for what be clearly an unethical and unworkable scheme ? both Rwanda and the United Kingdom have make it clear that the scheme be uncap . indeed , when I visit Rwanda a few month ago , I visit some of the new accommodation that have be construct for the precise purpose of support people who will be relocate to Rwanda . with respect , I disagree with the hon . Lady . there be potential in our agreement with Rwanda . we have confidence in its lawfulness , and we hope to deliver it as soon as possible . the Court of Appeal have rule that the Government can not send refugee to Rwanda . the scheme would cost taxpayer ten of thousand of extra pound per refugee , yet the Government still seem to want to spend extra million to challenge the ruling in the Supreme Court . have the Government think instead about simply pay for the Arsenal football team ' s Visit Rwanda sponsorship deal , which would cost less and achieve more than this gimmick of a scheme ? what disappoint I be that the hon . Gentleman be fail to grapple with the challenge and the cost that we be incur right now : £ 6 million a day on hotel accommodation and £ 3 billion a year on our asylum system . that can not go on , which be why the Prime Minister and I have pledge to do whatever it take to stop the boat , bear down on our asylum backlog and deliver our legislation and our partnership with Rwanda . today ' s judgment be clear that Rwanda have repeatedly breach its memorandum of understanding with Israel . the Home Secretary be a lawyer , so why be she hand over hundred of million of pound of taxpayer ' money without do the basic work to check that the arrangement be legally sound ? this judgment , and this dispute , be about our partnership and our agreement with Rwanda , which be secure last year . as the Lord Chief Justice find , it be subject to robust monitoring — a committee that inspect its operation — and very strong and robust assurance from Rwanda on its delivery . those give I confidence , which be why I be determined to roll it out as soon as possible . I have another question on the Government ' s spending of money , because today ' s judgment state that the rwandan system for refugee be neither reliably fair nor effective , so why do Ministers sign up to send £ 140 million to Rwanda without check that first ? we have be up front about the cost of our partnership with Rwanda , and that be a matter of public record . however , what be absolutely clear — I be sorry that I have to repeat it again , but the hon . Gentleman do not seem to be get the point — be that we be spend £ 6 million a day on hotel accommodation and £ 3 billion a year on our asylum system . that can not continue , which be why we will do whatever it take to stop the boat . that conclude proceeding on the statement from the Home Secretary . I thank everybody for take part . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I strongly support what the Home Secretary have be say , but I be concern with ensure that , in the ping - pong that will ensue when the Illegal Migration Bill return from the House of Lords — that should be quite soon , we hope — we will not in any way be inhibit by the fact that judicial proceeding be take place . it will be a really quite important debate , and we need to be able to conduct it with as much latitude as possible , so I seek your guidance . perhaps I could ask you to give that some thought , if I may . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . it be a point of order , which be a good start — point of order be not usually point of order — and I can assure he that sub judice rule do not apply while legislation be be consider . while the actual process of legislating be under way , sub judice rule do not apply , so the hon . Gentleman need not worry on that ground . Lawfare Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) on 20 January last year , I open a Backbench Business debate on the use of lawfare and strategic litigation against public participation by those seek to suppress public debate , bully people into submission and conceal vital information that be in the public interest . free speech matter — that be a truism of our age — but why do it matter ? there be many reason , but the important one be that free speech help keep our society clean ; free of corruption , criminality and the abuse of power . typically , such corruption be curb when whistleblower expose it ; when journalist and a free press report it ; and when politician or judicial authority act on it . as such , over - mighty man and organisation that have acquire their power and money through corrupt mean hate free speech , and use their wealth to suppress it . to do that , they use slapp — strategic litigation against public participation . slapp be a suite of litigious technique , use by corrupt plutocrat , that be design to intimidate , suppress and destroy the same whistleblower , journalist and politician who be try to expose malpractice . they be design to do this even when the plutocrat have no substantive case at all . they be design to grind down decent , honest , public - spirited people and ruin they . early this week in the House of Lords , the Government introduce the first legislative change design to tackle this issue of lawfare — slapp . in the intervene period , the problem have be exemplify by the action of the businessman Mohamed Amersi . I have already name this gentleman several time in the House in connection with our colleague Charlotte Leslie , who have to face two and a half year of fight Amersi ' s spurious legal claim against she . that court case be conclude in Charlotte Leslie ' s favour a few week ago . the judge find that amersi ' s case fail on the fact , but , importantly , he add that " several aspect " of amersi ' s conduct give " real cause for concern " about the intent behind his legal case . amersi delay the start of defamation proceeding , take an " exorbitant approach to the litigation " and pursue an unnecessarily complex case . he also pursue a data protection claim and a defamation claim in succession rather than properly in one action , thereby spin out the case and maximise the stress and cost on Charlotte Leslie . this be clearly an attempt to bully , intimidate and financially ruin Ms Leslie in order to suppress the truth . these be the classic characteristic of a slapp case , be design to destroy free speech , not to deliver justice . the judge also note that Amersi offer to drop his claim against Charlotte Leslie if he get his way and be give the green light to launch a rival group to Ms Leslie ' s Conservative Middle East Council . this be a clear attempt to blackmail the conservative party via a sort of judicial hostage taking . these be all standard slapp tactic , which be unsurprise give that Mr Amersi be represent by Carter - Ruck , the go - to law firm for every bad actor seek to undermine or misuse british justice . however , Carter - Ruck be not the only law firm willing to aid legal intimidation by dishonest and dishonourable mean , if pay the right price . other include CMS , Mishcon de Reya , Skadden , Taylor Wessing , Schillings and Harbottle & Lewis . Charlotte Leslie be not alone in face lawfare at the hand of Mr Amersi . he be also sue the BBC ' s " Panorama " programme , and he have threaten the Guardian , Chatham House and Private Eye . he have also use legal threat to bully king ' s College London into withdraw a report on tax avoidance , tax evasion , economic crime and the way this have impact on our public space and politic . the report be write in 2021 by the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) , who be a visit professor at King ' s College and be a long - stand campaigner against international corruption . the report be publish in May 2022 , but due to amersi ' s threat it be remove a few week later . this report be in the public interest , and highly relevant to our debate on the role and influence of russian oligarch and on the economic crime Bill , but access to it by the public , and indeed by member , be prevent . why do amersi do this ? because he do not like what be be write about he , and because our law allow those with deep pocket to bully people , suppress negative commentary in the medium and stop we hold their action to public account — and because he be rich enough to do it . but what be it that Mr Amersi want to conceal with his slapps ? in a word , the truth — a long history of involvement in corruption , in bribery and in buy access to politician . amersi be a wealthy businessman who make large sum of money in Russia , Uzbekistan , Kazakhstan and Nepal , which be all country where corruption be rife . in 2005 , Amersi make $ 4 million arrange the acquisition of a russian telecom company on behalf of a company he know be secretly own by a powerful Putin ally , the then russian telecom Minister , Leonid Reiman . he make another $ 1 . 5 million by buy and sell on a russian telecom venture , Komet , which be back by a russian general . in the UK , Amersi use his fortune to gain access to powerful people . he coin the term " access capitalism " , describe his own attempt to gain access to the royal household and Ministers , with payment to Prince Charles ' s charity and the conservative party . he and his partner give £ 750 , 000 to the conservative party , and he make no bone about what he think he be buy . when the Pandora paper be leak in 2021 , they expose some of the most egregious instance of corruption , economic crime and money laundering . amersi be in the thick of it . follow the leak , a joint investigation by the BBC and the Guardian reveal that he profit from a corrupt deal involve the swedish energy company Telia , and a high - profile kleptocrat in Uzbekistan . Most of the investigation rely on court document , and a settlement reach between the Telia and the US Department of Justice , follow a four - year investigation into that company ' s activity . a leak internal company report describe the activity of a consultant call " Mr XY " , who it transpire be Mohamed Amersi . it say that some of the payment to Amersi " may have be utilise to improperly acquire regulatory benefit and / or secure the go - ahead of the transaction . " the report recommend that Telia sack he . that be not surprising , give that Telia ' s former chief compliance officer say that he have be " involve in one of the big corruption scandal that we have see in Sweden . " Amersi help to facilitate a $ 220 million purchase of share from a shell company own by the daughter of the uzbek President at the time . that share purchase be in fact a conceal bribe — that be the clear view of the US Department of Justice . Mr Amersi pocket a $ 500 , 000 million " success fee " follow the deal . he claim he be employ by Telia , at a rate of $ 10 million a year , for his advanced skill and aptitude for negotiate . despite those apparent skill , he claim not to have realise that a financial arrangement he help design facilitate a multimillion dollar bribe . either he know it be a bribe , or he be extremely naive and therefore grossly overpay . I know my view , but I will leave the public to decide theirs . this be precisely why the right hon . member for Barking write about Mr Amersi in her report last year . this story have already be report in the Guardian and the BBC , and this be the first paragraph that he want remove from the right hon . Lady ' s paper — I will quote exactly : " the figure behind the [ Pandora ] leak be mind - boggle , and the document contain many scandalous story which really confirm how utterly awful the abuse of offshore have become . the paper bring to light how Conservative Party donor , Mohamed Amersi , allegedly use BVI - base company to profit from apparently corrupt deal between a swedish telecom giant and a key power broker in the kleptocratic regime in Uzbekistan . they reveal the offshore structure deploy by Putin ' s inner circle of oligarchs and ally to buy million - dollar property along the Monaco seafront . they demonstrate that money flow into onshore tax haven , such as US state like South Dakota , where there be around $ 360 billion hide in secret trust , include money that could have be derive from corrupt regime or criminal activity . " this be the second paragraph that he want remove : " comment from Mohamed Amersi , a Kenyan - bear telecom millionaire who , as previously discuss , be name in the Pandora Papers , seem to confirm that political donation can have a sinister purpose , after he describe his frustration at what he call ' access capitalism ' . amersi previously admit to buy access to Prince Charles and he have also donate £ 750 , 000 to the Conservative Party since 2017 . he claim to have pay £ 250 , 000 to become a member of the party ' s ' Advisory Board ' which have regular meeting with Boris Johnson and lead Cabinet member , and claim that he be promise the chairmanship of a new body , the conservative Friends of the Middle East and North Africa , a promise that have yet to materialise . the role would have give he significant power and influence as he would have act as a link between government in the region and British Ministers . amersi be now mire in an international corruption scandal . " the report of the right hon . member for Barking , " lose our moral compass " be about illicit finance and its corrosive impact . it summarise and analyse the feature of many corruption case in the public domain . it be a well - research and argue paper , design to inform public debate and write to show how dirty money threaten the integrity of our economy and our political institution . ironically , what follow illustrate how right she be . within day of the report be publish , King ' s College and the right hon . member receive legal threat . through his lawyer at Carter - Ruck , Amersi brand the report highly defamatory . he demand an apology and that the passage refer to he be either change or entirely removed . amersi bully King ' s College into remove the paper . as notional defender of academic freedom , it should have stand up to he , but it capitulate in the face of his threat . his threat effectively silence the right hon . member and suppress her vital work expose economic crime and dirty money . we know that amersi be no strange to use his financial might to get what he want . he have previously pay to meet senior member of the royal family , but organisation such as the Conservative party and Buckingham Palace take serious reputational risk in associate with people like Amersi . his attempt to remove important information from public view be a textbook example of strategic litigation against public participation . they be clearly an exercise in lawfare . we have an individual with deep pocket who can use british lawyer and court to suppress the publication of information that be clearly in the public interest . it be do in the knowledge that lengthy legal battle will likely bankrupt politician , journalist , academic institution , whistleblower and other who be brave enough to tell the truth about public corruption . amersi , like many oligarch with huge wealth of doubtful origin , be in the business of silence people . his action be an example of how the rich and powerful can silence anyone who criticise they . the kleptocrat , oligarch and bad actor do not care if that mean stifle free speech or public debate . now they be even prepared to try to silence elect member of Parliament and to block the publication of information that be plainly in the public interest . we find ourselves in a dangerous situation , where the abuse of the legal system be now damage the very core of our democracy . the case face by the right hon . member for Barking and Charlotte Leslie serve as a glaring example of that . it be to the disadvantage of the whole country when public interest investigation by Tom Burgis , HarperCollins , Catherine Belton , Eliot Higgins , opendemocracy , Oliver Bullough and the Bureau of Investigative Journalism be shut down . fortunately , the Government respond quickly to our debate on this issue last January . they almost immediately hold a major consultation , which result in proposal for reform . on Tuesday this week , they introduce the first anti - slapp measure in the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill , which be currently make its way through Parliament . the measure will empower the court to strike out slapp before trial . they will also prevent court from order defendant to pay claimant ' cost in relation to a slapp claim , unless misconduct by the defendant justify that . once a claim be deem to be a slapp , the burden will be on the claimant to prove that their claim be more likely than not to succeed . if not , the claim can be strike out . this be a welcome reversal of the burden of proof . take together , these measure be a great win for those look to shine a spotlight on economic crime and speak truth to power , but we must go far . as thing stand , the measure only apply to economic crime . approximately 70 % of the crime list in April 2022 in the Foreign Policy Centre report be connect to financial crime and corruption , but slapp have also be use to silence reporting on human right abuse , labour practice , regulatory non - compliance and an array of other abuse that do not relate to economic crime . to be truly effective , we must broaden anti - slapp provision so that they apply to all defamation lawsuit , because ultimately we want to ensure that people such as Wagner ' s chief , Yevgeny Prigozhin , who have be in the news this week , be not able to silence and intimidate journalist , as he do to a Bellingcat reporter early this year . I welcome the commitment from Lord Bellamy on Tuesday that the Government will complete " the jigsaw as soon as a suitable legislative vehicle appear . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 27 June 2023 ; Vol . 831 , c . 629 . ] the issue will not end with reform to defamation law . data protection law and subject access request be become yet another weapon for bully people into silence . we also need proper regulation of private investigator , who in many instance have enable slapp through intrusive and often illegal surveillance or hacking . Justice Nicklin say that the tactic that amersi ' s lawyer use against Charlotte Leslie — that of bring separate claim in succession — " can be a hallmark of abusive conduct " . I think he be be delicate in that reference to slapp . we could improve the Government ' s proposal by allow the court to make the law firm and solicitor involve in slapp pay the cost to the public purse , and so take the fight directly to those who enable slapp . the London lawyer I list early — Carter - Ruck and the rest — have design a litany of tactic not to promote justice , but to suppress truth ; not to protect reputation , but to silence legitimate criticism ; not to ensure accountability , but to cover up corruption . that behaviour should not go unpunished . they should be make to meet the cost of waste the court ' time . our legal system be a source of pride . Britain be home to some of the fair and good court in the world . we can not allow individual with deep pocket and questionable motive to exploit our justice system and destroy our reputation as a trusted jurisdiction . expand anti - slapp measure will put an end to this perversion of our legal system that seek to intimidate , threaten , and suppress british journalist , academic , civil society , and sit member of Parliament . we have make good progress , but if we fail to understand the magnitude of this issue and to fully address this problem , then , as the right hon . member for Barking state in her report , we be truly at risk of lose our moral compass . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Mr Davis ) for secure this important debate . it give I an opportunity to restate the Government ' s commitment to freedom of speech and the protection of journalist . first , let I emphasise that investigative journalism be a central plank of a function democracy . the UK launch a national action plan in 2021 to ensure that we continue to foster an environment in which journalist feel safe from physical harm and intimidation , and where those who threaten they be properly hold to account . our aim be to ensure that journalist operate in the UK be as safe as possible , to reduce the number of attack on and threat issue to journalist , and to ensure that those responsible for such action be bring to justice . the UK may not face the same challenge as other state , but it be clear that journalist operate here still face threat to their personal safety , largely through online abuse . as we rely on journalist to hold powerful actor to account for our collective good , lawfare that target our public watchdog through aggressive , intimidatory tactic must be stamp out . Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine bring home the urgent need for Government action on strategic lawsuit against public participation , as my right hon . friend have lay out clearly . slapp be an increasingly common lawfare tactic , and there be report that hostile state could finance litigation in the UK to obstruct worthwhile investigation into corruption and other wrongdoing , as my right hon . friend have set out many time . we know that the Government ' s decisive action on sanction have already urge firm to review their russian client list , and mitigate threat to national security . insurer be increasingly cautious about grant professional indemnity insurance , and that reflect the fact that there be great scrutiny of russian - link litigation . as this House will recall , the Government publish a call for evidence on slapp in 2022 . I thank the 120 respondent , who submit evidence of the high quality . through that invaluable evidence and a series of stakeholder engagement roundtable , we hear the shocking impact that these case can have on the wellbeing and livelihood of investigative journalist who report under immense financial and psychological pressure so that we , as a collective , be well informed . they must be protect so that they be able to continue their valuable work . slapp present a novel challenge to free speech and we be immensely grateful to the call for evidence respondent for help to ensure that we get this right and deliver the outcome we want to see . free speech be a fundamental cornerstone of our democracy , so I be pleased to confirm that the Government have act decisively to legislate , table amendment to the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill , which introduce measure to tackle slapp relate to economic crime . the Government still intend to introduce comprehensive anti - slapp legislation when parliamentary time allow . if I may , I might gently suggest that my right hon . friend apply for a private Member ' s Bill . a Government legislative vehicle may take some time to appear , so a private Member ' s Bill in the next Session might be suitable light codicil for this particular piece of legislation . we intend to go far , but we believe that the measure we have introduce will catch the majority of slapp . at least 70 % of the case reference in a 2022 report about slapp and article 19 by the Foreign Policy Centre be connect to financial crime and corruption . the provision should therefore target a significant proportion of case . recent court case have show that slapp be difficult to identify and there be a notable difference in legal and judicial opinion on what constitute a slapp , both domestically and overseas . to rectify that , we have introduce a statutory definition to enable clear identification of slapp relate to economic crime , accord to common characteristic . those characteristic may include aggressive pre - action communication and target of individual where their publisher would be more appropriate . today , we know that defendant be intimidate by the prospect of year of litigation that require expensive legal defence . we have therefore introduce an early dismissal process which will effectively stop claimant from financially and psychologically exhaust their opponent via abusive mean , cut short case which have no merit . with respect to economic crime , no long will claimant be able to suppress legitimate investigation into and report on matter of public interest by bring baseless claim . the crippling cost currently bear by slapp defendant will be address through a new cost protection regime , which will ensure that journalist and free speech advocate be able to litigate without fear of bankruptcy . the regime will be introduce in secondary legislation , once the principle be set out in statute . the regime will frustrate a central plank of SLAPP claim : the weaponisation of cost . in addition , stakeholder engagement continue to be a vital part of our monitoring effort to ensure that the Government ' s response to the issue of slapp be appropriate and effective . we be work closely with the Solicitors Regulation Authority , which should be applaud for its action on slapp . in February , it publish a thematic review of the behaviour in dispute of 25 law firm suspect of slapp activity , a deep dive into conduct that may breach ethical or regulatory duty . it also issue , in March , additional guidance on conduct in dispute . this show that our system of regulation be adapt at pace to novel challenge . I must underline that the vast majority of legal professional operate in this jurisdiction do so with utmost integrity and regard for the rule of law . therefore , it be vital to protect the integrity of our legal system and our judiciary from the reputational risk that slapp pose . our common law system be world - renowned , precisely because of the quality of the practitioner and procedure that we use . it must remain that way . the importance we place on access to justice and an independent judiciary naturally lead to foreign litigant choose to do business in our court , but we must not , and will not , allow the process and procedure to be abuse for most improper purpose . that must be stop , as my right hon . friend lay out , include attempt to conceal economic crime . I thank my right hon . friend for continue to champion this critical issue , and our stakeholder who have tirelessly campaign against abuse of the legal system . I would like to end by repeat his own word . he say : " our legal system be a source of pride . Britain be home to some of the fair and good court in the world . we can not allow individual with deep pocket and questionable motive to exploit our justice system and destroy our reputation as a trusted jurisdiction . " the Government could not have put it well . question put and agree to . House adjourn .