I remember well the UN rapporteur say that the Conservatives be engage in cruelty towards people in this country who need help the most . what I can not fathom be why a Labour Government be not first put in the support and then let it bed in , which be what will reduce the welfare bill and increase employment level . the impact of any cut would then not be as drastic . the starting point should never be cut before proper support . the review lead by my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability , who I have a lot of respect for , be start to look a little bit predetermine as the change in criterion will happen at the same time as the review conclude . it remain unclear how exist claimant with fluctuating condition will be assess , and the impact that these change will have on the carer ' s allowance . however , we do know that disability living allowance claimant and those on other legacy benefit will be assess under the new criterion , put almost 800 , 000 disabled child at risk of lose support . the north - east region have the high number of disabled people in England , and the number of people search for work outpace the number of available job . how on earth will cut the health element of universal credit incentivise those people to go out and find a job that do not even exist ? since PIP be an in - work benefit , restrict the very support that could keep people in work will only help to increase unemployment . all of this for £ 2 . 5 billion of saving , when we know that saving can be make elsewhere and when we know that those with the broad shoulder could pay more . instead , we be once again make disabled people pay the price for the economic mess that the conservative party leave we . as it stand , we be be ask to vote blind today . there be no new Bill , no new explanatory note and no fully update impact assessment . there be no time for sufficient scrutiny , and no formal consultation have take place with disabled people . the majority of employment support will not be in place until the end of the decade , and access to work remain bad than ever before . we be create a two - tier , possibly three - tier , benefit system , and we know for certain that disabled people be go to be bad off . this be not a responsible way for any of we to legislate . it be predict that disabled people will lose on average £ 4 , 500 per year , yet we know they already need an extra £ 1 , 095 per month just to have the same standard of living as those in non - disabled household . there be a reason why 138 organisation represent disabled people be against this Bill , and there be a reason why not a single organisation have come out in support of it . I be plead with mps today to please do not do this . for those on my own Labour Benches , stay loyal to your party today may feel good in this place , but once you go home and be in your individual constituency , the reality of this will hit — and it will hit very hard .