business before Questions New Writ I have to announce to the House that Mike Amesbury , the former Member for Runcorn and Helsby , have be grant the chiltern hundred . the recall process would have begin once the time limit for all route of appeal have be reach . it be now no long relevant , but for the convenience of the House , I will , as be customary , arrange for the notification from the court to be place in the Votes and Proceedings . order , that on the 26th day of March 2025 , the Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a new Writ for the electing of a member to serve in this present Parliament for the County constituency of Runcorn and Helsby , in the room of Michael Lee Amesbury , who since his election for the say County constituency have be appoint to the Office of Steward and Bailiff of his Majesty ' s three chiltern hundred of Stoke , Desborough and Burnham in the County of Buckinghamshire . — ( Sir Alan Campbell . ) Oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — Warm Homes Plan what step he be take to introduce the warm home plan . what step he be take to introduce the warm home plan . our warm home plan will upgrade up to 5 million home with technology such as heat pump , solar panel and insulation , help family to low bill and improve their home . last week we allocate £ 1 . 8 billion to local authority and social housing provider to help low - income household and social housing tenant . we will publish further plan follow the spending review . the warm home plan deliver a welcome uplift in resource for domestic energy efficiency . failure by government , energy company and local authority over a number of year have leave my constituent pay huge energy cost , with poor connectivity , failure to install smart meter or smart meter not work when they be instal , and not - fit - for - purpose electric heating system in the Braes village . do the Minister agree that the Government must do all they can to end fuel poverty , and will he meet I to discuss how to hold accountable those who be responsible for the ongoing issue in my constituency ? my hon . friend raise a number of important issue . it be about have a tough regulator in Ofgem , it be about smart meter that work , and it be about every decision the Government take seek to tackle fuel poverty . that be why I be incredibly pleased that we announce the extension of the warm home discount to an extra 2 . 7 million family , with an extra £ 150 next winter to help family . that be what this Labour Government be all about . I welcome the energy efficiency measure that my right hon . friend mention , which will really make a difference to many family in the future , but what can the Government and energy provider do to help family struggle to pay their energy bill today ? my hon . friend speak with great expertise about these issue . she will know that the Minister for Energy Consumers , my hon . friend the Member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) , put in place with the energy company £ 500 million this winter to help family struggle with their bill . we also want to see Ofgem proceed with the plan to relieve the debt that many family face , because the debt overhang from the cost of living crisis that we see after Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine still blight many family in our country . if we move forward on all those front , we can tackle these issue . I strongly support all effort to increase energy efficiency and bring down bill . be the Secretary of State concern about the potential unforeseen consequence of raise the minimum level of energy performance certificate to C for long - term rent accommodation but not do so for short - term let and own property ? will that not create an incentive in community such as our for people to go to Airbnb or second home ownership , rather than provide affordable home for local people ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important issue . I believe I be right in say — I be check with the Minister for Energy Consumers — that as part of the consultation on energy efficiency , we be look at the issue of short - term let , which have be raise in the past . he be right to draw attention to what we be do here , because this measure , which the last Government propose and then back away from — a pattern we be see quite a lot at the moment — will take up to 1 million family out of poverty . it be a basic principle : if someone be rent a home and they pay their rent on time , they have a right to live in decent , warm accommodation . Electricity Grid Decarbonisation what recent estimate his Department have make of the cost of decarbonise the electricity grid by 2030 . what recent estimate his Department have make of the cost of decarbonise the electricity grid by 2030 . our clean power mission will end our dependence on volatile fossil fuel market , give the british people the energy security they deserve and drive job and investment into our community . we be already see the impact of the clean energy transition , with thousand of job be create across the country in CCUS — carbon capture , usage and storage — hydrogen and offshore wind , and more nationally significant solar power be approve in eight month than the previous Government manage in 14 year . the London power tunnel project have be a positive story locally in Bexley , as National Grid have work with the community to minimise disruption with a plan to restore the site . however , the Labour Government ' s planning reform have lead developer to propose two extensive industrial battery storage facility on a nature conservation area and farmland locally in Bexley that do not meet fire safety guidance . while we need infrastructure , do the Minister agree that weaken green belt protection against resident ' wish and damage nature in the process to meet labour ' s unrealistic grid target will result in bad development in inappropriate place ? I be glad the hon . Gentleman draw attention to the London power tunnel . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and I have visit they recently and they be a fantastic example of engineering and of what we can achieve if we set ambitious target in this area . I gently disagree with the hon . gentleman on the wide point , however , as we be go to have to build infrastructure across the country to get the benefit of the renewable energy that we be generate , and battery storage be important for that . of course community have a voice through the planning system and it would be wrong for I to comment on individual application , but the hon . Gentleman and his colleague must remember that we can not simply block every infrastructure project that need to be build . we need to build for the economic growth of the country and for our energy security . once again the Minister have fail to answer the question about the cost estimate , but we do know that the Government ' s dogma - drive 2030 target will drive up cost and that we will see pylon and substation impose in Walpole in my constituency and across the country against the wish of local people . that will damage our countryside and it rely on chinese supply chain , which the Energy Secretary visit only over the weekend . when will the Government realise that their approach of rule out underground option and attempt to buy off local community on the cheap , rather than listen to they , will only drive opposition to their plan ? once again , we hear from Conservative Members about all these grand plan that they wish they have do in the 14 year that they be in government . they could have move forward on undergrounde if they be so keen on it , but of course they do not . the reality be that it be for individual company , not we , to set forward the design of individual project , and cost estimate for undergrounding be five or 10 time more expensive . the bottom line on all of this be that the leader of the hon . member ' s party early today move away from the commitment that she have make on net zero . just a few year ago , she say that " Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine have make it clear that rely on authoritarian regime " can make it " hard … to heat our home " . they recognise then the importance of this net zero transition ; now they be run away from how we deliver on it . I call the Chair of the Select Committee , Bill Esterson . UK electricity bill be the high in Europe compare to gas . evidence give to the Select Committee suggest that the Government be absolutely right to reduce our reliance on fossil fuel , and it be a shame that some Opposition Members have abandon an evidence - inform approach to policymake . can the Minister confirm whether the Government be consider rebalance the infrastructure levy on our energy bill , as a way of reduce electricity bill in the immediate future and as a down payment towards 2030 and beyond ? the Select Committee Chair make an important point . along with the Minister for Energy Consumers , my hon . friend the Member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) , I be look at all option , because it be important that we bring down bill and that we be build an energy system that protect we from the volatile fossil fuel market in the future . there be trade - off to be make when rebalancing that we need to be aware of , in particular whether a diminish number of gas customer can pay bill if we be to transfer levy , but we be look at all option and be , of course , look at how we review with Ofgem the wide question of stand charge to make sure we bring down bill . my hon . friend be right to say of the journey that we be on — and that the conservative party use to be on , and on which there use to be consensus — that our transition to net zero be important for energy security and for the climate , but also for protect bill in the long term . the Minister be clearly aware of the foolhardy decision by the Opposition to abandon the political consensus on net zero , but have he make an assessment of the cost to the consumer of pursue that disastrous path , which would lock we into our dependence on pollute fossil fuel , volatile oil and gas price , and the whim of foreign dictator ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be important to recognise that where once there be consensus in this country on how we tackle the climate crisis and , crucially , how we deliver the economic and industrial advantage , that consensus seem to have be splinter by the conservative party . it be only two year ago that the leader of that party make an important point , which I agree with strongly , when she say " if we get our strategy wrong , we risk be leave on the backfoot as other country seize the advantage . " the conservative party now wish we to be on the backfoot , but we be determined that we will drive forward because that be the good policy for consumer , economic growth and energy security . I call the shadow Minister . the Government ' s rush to decarbonise the grid mean more hidden cost , more curtailment payment , more balancing payment , more subsidy and a high carbon price . will the Minister guarantee that our carbon price will remain low than the european price for the remainder of this Parliament ? I think the hon . Gentleman know more than anyone about the work that the previous Prime Minister Theresa May do in this area — work that his party be now move away from rapidly . the Conservatives be right then : the only way for we to bring down bill , deliver economic growth and tackle the economic opportunity be for we to be on this journey together . conservative Members use to strongly believe in that . we will continue on that path because it be the right thing for the country to do . that be a long - wind answer , but the Minister do not actually address the question , and I think he just give away that it be labour ' s secret plan to increase the price of carbon — a massive rise in the carbon price — add hundred of pound to family ' bill and decimate british industry . give labour ' s election promise to cut bill , will he take this moment — he can look up into the camera if he like — to promise the country that by the next election bill will be low , as Labour promise ? yes or no ? never mind long - wind answer — that be a very long - wind question . I have not reveal any secret plan , but the Conservatives have reveal their not so secret plan , and I can tell the county that it be just as disappointing as the one the country reject seven month ago . we have be very clear that it be our commitment to bring down bill , and we be determined to deliver on that . unlike the conservative party , which leave consumer across the country expose to volatile fossil fuel market — the hon . Gentleman be right to point out that bill go up and up and up when his party be in government — we will bring they down . his party want to take we back to the fossil fuel casino but we will not do that . mineworker ' Pension Scheme what assessment he have make of the potential impact of change to the mineworker ' pension scheme on the living standard of the recipient of that pension . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of change to the mineworker ' pension scheme on the living standard of the recipient of that pension . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of change to the mineworker ' pension scheme on the living standard of the recipient of that pension . this Labour Government have end the historic injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme . at the end of November last year , the first uprated payment for the pension scheme land for over 100 , 000 miner and their family . that be an average increase of 32 % on their monthly payment , or an average additional £ 28 a week . I thank the Minister for her answer and for her hard work to increase payment to mineworker and their family across the country . after dig for coal for many year , 1 , 600 miner and their family have receive an uplift of nearly £ 30 a week in my constituency of Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney . however , progress be still need on the staff superannuation scheme . the trustee of that scheme confirm to I that the average age of pension member be 76 , so with time march on , will the Minister outline the next step to help member of the staff scheme ? I thank my hon . friend for his remark ; he be right to talk about the British Coal staff superannuation scheme . the initial focus of our work be on the mineworker ' pension scheme , which be in our manifesto . we have to work at pace on that commitment , and we be work with the Government Actuary ' s Department on how the surplus - share arrangement will work go forward . that big piece of work be under way , but my hon . friend be right to point to the ten of thousand of people who be in the BCSSS . I too have meet the trustee , and we be work as fast as we can through the issue associate with that scheme . the two scheme be different — they operate in different way — but the Government be the guarantor for both of they , and I will reconvene trustee to continue discussion with they and take this matter forward . at the last general election , I make a promise to ex - miner in my constituency that a Labour Government would deliver justice on the MPS investment reserve fund and return it to its member . I be delighted that at the end of last year , this Government deliver , provide a boost of more than 32 % to their pension . however , in my constituency there be more than 600 BCSSS member , who be still really concerned about this issue , so I would welcome the Minister ' s answer on that . can she reassure they and I that the trustee will continue to update the member of that scheme ? at the moment , there be a degree of uncertainty on what progress can be make over the come month . I thank my hon . friend for his concern for his constituent who be in the BCSSS . I be very receptive to the call from BCSSS trustee . I write to the Chief Secretary to the Treasury at the end of last year to begin discussion . we have receive a positive response from he , and we be now take the next step to move this process forward . we be only partway there on the pension injustice for miner . the British Coal staff superannuation scheme have around 40 , 000 member who formerly work in mining industry , include a number of my constituent . they include many woman who be among the low pay in the coal industry — my own mum work in the pit canteen . can I assure my constituent enrol in the BCSSS that transfer the £ 2 . 3 billion investment reserve to its member be a priority for this Government ? my hon . friend be right to point out that there be about 40 , 000 people in this scheme . about 5 , 000 of they be woman , unlike the mineworker ' pension scheme , of which the vast majority of member be man . the two scheme be different and operate in a different way , because in 2015 the BCSSS have run two deficit and be at risk , so there have to be an intervention from Government . the two scheme operate differently and have to be look at differently . the Government Actuary ' s Department team be work its way through the mineworker ' pension process , and we be now work with official on this issue . I be meet official later today to talk about it more to see what we need to do . I stress that this be very complex — we be talk about billion of pound - worth of asset — but we be absolutely receptive to call from the trustee , and I will meet with they again soon . Clean Power by 2030 what progress he have make on achieve clean power by 2030 . we be drive forward at speed to deliver clean power by 2030 . last week , the Government introduce the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , which will enable the big expansion of the grid for generation , sweep away the connection delay and the queue that hold we back for too long under the last government and reform the planning system to speed up delivery . we have also lay out for the first time legislation to provide household near new or upgrade pylon £ 250 a year off their energy bill for 10 year , as part of our commitment to deliver meaningful benefit for community host clean energy infrastructure . do the Secretary of State agree that community energy have a vital role to play in the transition to clean and greener power ? will he accept an invitation to come to my constituency in north London to visit Community Energy Barnet , which be work on one of the large community energy project in the country ? I always like visit north London , and I would very much like to accept an invitation from my hon . friend . he make a really serious and important point about community energy . if we look at Germany and Denmark , we see that they have do much well on community energy than we . great British Energy have an important role to play in this , and we will say more about that in the come week . do the Secretary of State share my concern about report of persistent misconduct by Drax , regard cut down old - growth forest and burn it at its power station ? to be clear , this be a company that chop down pristine forest , ship it halfway across the world to burn it in the United Kingdom and claim that it be sustainable . will he look again at the large amount of subsidy that have be approve by this Government for that company ? I do not know whether the right hon . Gentleman , for whom I have great respect , be present when the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , make a statement on precisely that issue . on the impact on bill , he will be delighted to know that under the new arrangement that this Government agree , there have be an absolute transformation in the scale of subsidy to Drax ; it will be halve . there be also a windfall tax when its profit go above a certain level , which I be sure the right hon . Gentleman be in favour of , and there be much high standard of sustainability . he be right that we should take these issue seriously . the conservative party abandon the economy , the NHS , the justice system and immigration , and now it be join its reform collaborator and other climate change denier in the dunce ' s corner . do the Secretary of State agree that , unlike this Government , who recognise the triple benefit of the 2030 goal — energy security , a transition to renewable , and job creation — the conservative party have no solution for 21st century Britain ? my hon . friend should not be so shy and retire . he make a really important point . I listen to the interim shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , on the radio this morning . he make net zero 2050 sound like a target dream up by I , but it be not . it be Theresa May , the former conservative Prime Minister , who legislate for net zero by 2050 . the hon . Member be her parliamentary private Secretary at the time — he be suppose to be the man implement it . she set the target because it be the right thing to do , so that we can have clean home - grow energy , get the job , and protect future generation . the plan for a green generator at the peterhead power station in my constituency be shovel - ready , but they depend on approval for the Acorn project at St Fergus . on 12 November last year , the Minister for Industry state in response to a question from I that more information would be available on the track 2 project " in the come month . " give that four month have pass , can the Secretary of State provide an update timescale and outline what the next step will be ? I support the Acorn project ; it be really important . for reason that the hon . Member will understand , the right time to make decision will be at the spending review in June . Energy Consumer Support what discussion he have have with energy supplier on support for consumer . we know that people be worried about their energy bill , and that too many be struggle to afford they . we agree £ 500 million of industry support , alongside our warm home discount , to ensure that £ 1 billion of support be available for household struggle with their energy bill this winter . we will continue to take action to support consumer in the short term , as we sprint towards clean power in order to bear down on energy bill for good . in my constituency , a local hospitality business ' s energy provider , E . ON , have behave appallingly by back - billing and incorrectly billing , leave that business nearly bankrupt . while I welcome the new expand remit of the Energy Ombudsman , we need to ensure that it have the capacity and power that it need to protect business . would the Minister meet I to discuss this case , and what be the Government do to ensure that our local business be not drive to bankruptcy by the outrageous behaviour of energy supplier ? I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss this case . however , there be clear rule in place to protect consumer from unfair back - billing , and energy company must comply with those rule . I have meet Energy UK , the industry body , and Ofgem to reinforce our expectation that if rule be not comply with , Ofgem will take enforcement action . the broad point be that we have to ensure that the energy market be work for consumer and be fair . we be review Ofgem to ensure that it have the mandate , the duty and the power — include the Energy Ombudsman — that it need to be an effective and strong consumer champion . for the record , I and my constituent be proud of the southern North sea development — the large wind farm in the world , begin under the last government . however , we be not happy about this Government ' s rush to force our consumer to pay high bill ; to see , as a result of vast subsidy , farmer in a very important agricultural area of Norfolk farm solar panel , rather than the food that we need to ensure affordability and our security ; and to abandon agricultural leadership on net zero . can the Minister reassure my consumer that £ 250 be adequate compensation for high bill and the defoliation of a large part of Norfolk ? that be what have happen in the rush towards ill - thought - out net zero target , set in London , without any consideration of local people . the past few year have show we why we must break our reliance on global fossil fuel market . under the hon . Gentleman ' s Government ' s watch , energy price spiral , and consumer across the country pay the price . that be a reality that Opposition Members be happy with , but it be not a reality that we think be tenable , so we will sprint to clean power , because that be the route by which we achieve energy security for the country , and financial security for family . we be on the right side of history , and on the side of consumer . opposition Members be delude . in Blackpool , we have more than 250 charity that be do incredible work support people with their mental health , in get back to work , and also with the cost of living , but too many people tell I , week in , week out , that they can not afford to pay the bill . what conversation have the Minister have with energy company about support these charity ? will she agree to meet I to discuss this important issue ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : charity and third - sector organisation play a vital role in get support to household , which we know be struggle with bill . part of the reason we think it be so important to agree £ 500 million of industry support be to make sure that we get additional support to household . we be also consult on extend our warm home discount to 2 . 7 million more household , so that more than 6 million people get help . we will work with the energy sector to make sure that we use the vital network of charity to get that support to the household that need it . the price of gas be some 20 % low than it be at the beginning of this year , and the Secretary of State promise that bill would come down . can the Government say when bill will come down for consumer , give that they be go up by 6 % on 1 April ? I encourage the hon . Gentleman to check his fact . the price cap go up , which be disappointing for family , because of the spike in wholesale price . that be because of our reliance on global fossil fuel market . [ interruption . ] I will say it incredibly slowly for he , so he can understand : it be because of our reliance on global fossil fuel market . we must break that reliance . we have to wean ourselves off this rollercoaster of price spike and price fall , which be harm consumer across the country . the sprint to clean power will achieve that . it be a shame that he can not see that . I call the shadow Minister . consumer be concerned about the rise energy price cap . what will the Secretary of State do to strengthen exist energy scheme and initiate new scheme ? will it include deliver the £ 300 reduction in energy bill that Labour promise during the general election ? we know that household be struggle with bill and be worried about they . that be why we be do everything we can to bear down on bill . we be do that not just because it be a manifesto commitment , but because it matter to household across the country . while we sprint to clean power — we be clear that that be the route to bear down on bill — we will support household . whether it be the £ 500 million agreement we make with energy supplier , the extension of the warm home discount to more than 6 million household , or the debt support we be provide to consumer with energy debt , we be take short - term action . let I be clear that the way we get ourselves out of this bind be by deliver clean power for consumer across the country . COP29 what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the COP29 agreement . I thank my hon . friend for her continued interest in this issue . despite significant challenge , COP29 agree a new climate finance goal and finalise guidance on international carbon market . we would have like more progress in certain area , such as on mitigation outcome . we look forward to play an important role in the run - up to COP30 in Bel é m , to ensure that more progress be make . tackle climate change should matter to all of we because it affect all of we . at COP29 , the UK lead the way on set strong climate target . how be the Minister ensure that measure be in place to track progress against our COP commitment ? how be she work with business , local authority and industry to deliver on those target and drive investment ? my hon . friend be right : we earn the credibility that enable we to show international leadership by deliver at home . in due course we will publish a cross - economy plan for meet our climate target , which will outline the policy that be need to meet our 2035 nationally determined contribution , and we be engage with a range of stakeholder on delivery through , for instance , the Net Zero Council , which have a very busy work programme , and the local net zero delivery group . what assessment have the Minister make of the COP29 commitment to triple finance for develop country from the previous goal of $ 100 billion to $ 300 billion a year by 2035 , and what be the United Kingdom ' s contribution to that sum ? it be always a pleasure to answer question from the hon . member . we remain committed to international climate finance , and to the new climate finance goal agree at COP29 . the level of the UK ' s contribution will be consider in the spending review , when we will also consider how we can maximise investment from the private sector . Carbon Capture and Storage what step he be take to support the development of carbon capture and storage technology . what step he be take to support the development of carbon capture and storage technology . the £ 21 . 7 billion of funding to which we commit in October will kick - start the carbon capture , usage and storage industry , support thousand of job in our industrial heartland through the east coast and HyNet cluster . we continue to engage with important future project , such as Acorn in Scotland and Viking in the Humber , and we will make further announcement follow the spending review . as my right hon . friend will recognise , Merseyside be a clean energy pioneer , a hub of carbon capture and hydrogen technology . the climate emergency be the challenge of our generation , and that challenge will be meet only through the collective endeavour of community across our country , include mine in Wirral West . how be the Government help our community to deliver good , local energy project ? my hon . friend be entirely right about this . we have learn over the last decade and more that this be the big job opportunity of the 21st century . nowhere be that more true than in the investment we be make in carbon capture , usage and storage , and I be confident that my hon . friend ' s constituent will benefit . a couple of week ago , the Confederation of British Industry produce an important report that show that last year , the net zero economy grow three time fast than the economy as a whole . the House should let that sink in , because it tell we that if we turn our back on the net zero economy , we turn our back on business , job and investment . do my right hon . friend agree that there be huge potential for carbon capture and storage to play a key role in our green energy ambition for Scotland ? as we look towards the spending review , do he agree that the Acorn project present an excellent and efficient opportunity to invest in CCUS , and to reduce the carbon impact of industry across Scotland , because it will repurpose exist pipeline ? I congratulate my hon . friend . he be a fantastic advocate for the Acorn project , of which we be hugely supportive . track 1 project be agree in last year ' s Budget — a fiscal event , a fiscal moment — and the Government be consider those project ahead of the next phase of the spending review , which will come in June ; but I do not think that anyone doubt the potential value of the Acorn project , not just to Scotland but to the whole United Kingdom . no one who care about the future of our child and our grandchild will gainsay the importance of carbon capture , but do the Secretary of State not understand that he be undermine that good work — notwithstanding his answer to my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) — by continue to subsidise the Drax power station , which be cut down forest in Canada , turn the wood into pellet , and ship it thousand of mile across the Atlantic to burn here ? that make nonsense of what he be try to achieve . I do not agree with the right hon . Gentleman , for whom I have great respect . the situation that we inherit from the last Government mean that we have to consider matter such as security of supply and how we could secure the good deal for bill payer . that be what we do , and that be why we make the statement that we make on Drax . on long term , however , the right hon . Gentleman be entirely right . we need to move away from unabated biomass and consider all the possibility to enable we to move towards net zero , and that be what this Government be do . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate the six student from Bourne community college who come to Westminster yesterday to present their report on the future of hydrogen storage as a net zero approach to aviation ? do he agree that student engage with science , technology , engineering and mathematic be excited about the potential of clean power and carbon capture , and that proper funding for STEM in our school will provide we with the next generation of scientist and engineer who can help we to achieve these goal ? I join the hon . Lady in warmly congratulate the six student from her constituency whom she mention . I be sure that I speak for all member of the House when I say that when we meet young people who be engage in the potential of clean energy technology to transform our country and our world , it be an incredibly important reminder , both about its potential for job , and about our duty to future generation . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Inter - governmental Panel on Climate Change have make it clear that by 2050 , we need to be remove 10 billion tonne of carbon from the atmosphere every year if we be to stand a chance of keep below the 1 . 5 ° target . it be clear that carbon removal , and not just carbon capture and storage , will play a critical role in our avoid a climate disaster . in the face of the Conservative party once again embrace climate denialism , what step will the Government take to support the research , development and deployment of carbon removal technology to ensure that british company become leader in this emerge sector ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I can tell he that the Minister for Industry hold a roundtable with a whole range of industry voice on this precise topic last week . he be right about this issue . there be scepticism about CCS in some part of academia and elsewhere . all the evidence that I have see from the Climate Change Committee , the ipcc and other , include the International Energy Agency , be that CCS technology have a crucial role to play on something like 20 % of emission . he be also right to say that carbon removal be the next stage of that journey , and it be something that my Department be heavily engage in . Nuclear Power whether he be take step to maintain the role of nuclear energy within his energy security strategy . what step he be take to support the nuclear power sector . what step he be take to support the nuclear power sector . nuclear power be at the heart of our mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower . it be not just provide energy security , but drive billion of pound in investment and create thousand of highly skilled job . great British Nuclear be on track to make final decision on its small modular reactor competition this spring , while a final investment decision on Sizewell C will be make in the spending review . whether one agree with the Government ' s net zero target or not , they will not be able to achieve they without nuclear energy play a significant role , which be why I be delighted that the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State choose to launch their nuclear strategy in my constituency — I can only assume that my invite be lose in the post . a key part of the nuclear fuel strategy be the nuclear fuel industry in this country . from the aggressive action of Russia and other country that have push western commercial provider out and dominate element of the nuclear fuel enrichment and manufacturing market , we see that it be ever more important for our national security that we develop whole - of - lifecycle nuclear fuel production . when will the Government announce the concrete step that they will take , as part of the strategy , to improve the whole - of - lifecycle manufacturing of nuclear power ? he need an Adjournment debate . the hon . Gentleman make a good point . the Prime Minister , the Secretary of State and , indeed , the Minister for nuclear in the other place have visit the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency and see the good work that be happen there , and just shy of £ 20 million from Government grant have go into that work to help develop nuclear fuel , which will be part of the future . the big nuclear development at Sizewell and Hinkley , smr and advanced modular reactor all need to be in the mix , and he be absolutely right to make that point . many of my constituent be pleased to see the extension of Heysham 1 and 2 late last year , and they would like long - term job for the future in the nuclear industry create in the north - west . do the Minister agree that it be thank to this Labour Government that we be end the last Government ' s legacy of no new nuclear be build ? I completely agree . the conservative party build no new nuclear in 14 year . small modular reactor will bring energy efficiency and economic growth to many part of this country . we be work at pace and will make sure that we have the answer on smr shortly . we will have the answer on Sizewell in the spending review , and of course nuclear will play a big role in the future . small modular reactor , as the Minister say , will play an important part in deliver clean , cheap and secure energy across this country . however , current rule require that any reactor must apply for regulatory justification , as if nuclear power be an entirely new practice instead of an exist one . that delay reactor get online and lower energy bill for people across the country , include in Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket , by up to two year . will the Secretary of State consider work with his Cabinet colleague to simplify the system and recognise that nuclear energy technology be an exist practice , thereby accelerate the deployment of small modular reactor ? another Adjournment debate . I will happily investigate far the issue that my hon . friend have raise . there be two piece of work go on in this space : the draft nuclear planning policy statement and the nuclear regulatory taskforce . we want to make thing as easy as we can , and I be very happy to talk to he far . small modular nuclear reactor be clearly the way forward for decarbonise the grid but be hold up by constant delay . when do the Minister expect to be able to announce the first one to be bring into operation , and when do she expect it to actually start work ? I be hope that it will take less than the 14 year in which the previous Government fail to deliver anything . we will see the announcement on the first SMR in the spring . our door be open to anyone who want to suggest build new nuclear in this country . I call the shadow Secretary of State . on 6 February , the Prime Minister announce that he would " take on the blocker " and build new small modular reactor , but do those blocker include his own government ? with essential work be delay and pause at Sellafield , possible job loss at the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority and still no certainty for Sizewell C due to a general fear in the industry that the spending review will stymie the ambition of great British Nuclear , be the big blocker to new nuclear in the UK not in Labour ' s Treasury ? I be not sure how many time the hon . Member promise he would get to the final investment decision on Sizewell under the last government — I think he and his colleague promise that at least five time in the House — and of course it do not happen . I gently repeat that the previous Government manage no new nuclear in 14 year , and he himself admit that the Government have move too slowly in get nuclear project off the ground . we be work at pace , and we will deliver the result of the competition in the spring . Sizewell C be also move at pace , and we will have final answer in the spending review . we be go to run on a bit because we be behind . we have hardly get through any question . renewable energy : worker ' right what step he be take to support worker ’ right in the renewable energy sector . for this government , good pay and condition for worker and the role of trade union must be at the heart of the renewable energy sector , because that be the only route to a fair transition . since we come to office , EDF Renewables have announce recognition agreement with four major trade union . we applaud it for its decision , and we want other to follow suit . through the Office for Clean Energy Jobs , we be also work with industry and trade union to support fair pay , term and condition in the sector . I thank my right hon . friend for his answer . the Employment Rights Bill be an historic step forward for worker , but these right must go hand in hand with good job . what action be he take to strengthen the UK ' s manufacturing capacity and supply chain to ensure that community such as mine in Knowsley benefit from the transition to net zero ? my hon . friend be a brilliant advocate for her constituency , and on this issue of manufacture job . if we look at what this Government be do — from GB Energy to the national wealth fund and the clean industry bonus — we see that this Government be determined to ensure that we manufacture in Britain . we care about where thing be make , and we will make those good manufacturing job happen . I call the Father of the House . large - scale Solar Farms what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the development of large - scale solar farm . meet our clean power mission will require a significant increase in the deployment of both ground - mount and rooftop solar project . as well as consent record amount of ground - mount solar , we want to see a much great deployment of rooftop solar power . we will soon publish the solar road map — work that start under the previous Government — to bring together our next step in this area . the Government say that only 1 % of agricultural land will be take up by solar farm , but in the pipeline around Gainsborough 10 , 000 acre have already be put aside for solar farm , with another 4 , 000 announce a couple of week ago — up to 15 % of my constituency , which be the most arable and most fertile in the country . I make one quite reasonable request of the Secretary of State : will he consider application in the round rather than individually , and look at their cumulative effect on food production and the local environment ? under even the most ambitious scenario , less than 1 % of agricultural land would be occupy by solar farm . on the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about their be holistically plan , the strategic spatial energy planning that we have take forward be important in have a coherent view of the entire energy system . that be work that we should have do many , many year ago . we be now move at pace to do it , but individual planning application be — I call Luke Murphy . now that the conservative party oppose large - scale solar , net zero and onshore wind , I be tempt to ask the Minister what he make of that party ' s new energy policy , which be to take we back to the past , rub two stick together and hope for the good . instead , will he update the House on the progress of great British Energy in deliver our clean energy mission ? I think we have rehearse the argument about the absolute failure of the previous Government over the past 14 year . the Conservatives have just go far back today . on GB Energy , I be delighted to be in Aberdeen yesterday to join the board of GB Energy for its first board meeting . the Bill will soon , we hope , complete its passage through Parliament . it can then get on with deliver for the british people . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . Britain produce 1 % of global climate emission . China be the world ' s large emitter , yet no UK Energy Secretary have visit it in eight year to make the case for it to do more . that be why I have be in Beijing make the case for climate action . engagement , not negligence , be what fight for Britain look like . on climate , as on so much else , this Government believe that Britain can only protect our national interest by engage on the international stage . the Bacton energy hub in my constituency be undergo a green transition , which I support because I believe in protect our natural environment and boost our economy through net zero — two thing the Conservatives seem to have abandon . green hydrogen at Bacton need wind power to be bring in from the coast . will the Secretary of State help to make that happen , and will he visit Bacton with I to see the potential for himself ? this , among many other , be a very , very important potential project and the hon . Gentleman be right to make the case for it . Green hydrogen be absolutely part of our energy mix in the future . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to nuclear energy . I recently meet representative of Newcleo , a company develop small modular reactor use lead - cool fast reactor technology that use deplete uranium and plutonium : waste material of which we have an abundance from our exist nuclear programme . will the Secretary of State detail what he be do to ensure that the industrial strategy take account of all aspect of the nuclear jigsaw , include the wide variety of technology on offer ? clean energy be one of the eight growth sector in the industrial strategy and will provide a core part of that strategy . if anybody want to build new nuclear in this country , our door be always open . last month , with surprisingly little fanfare from the Department or the Secretary of State , the Climate Change Committee publish carbon budget 7 . among the more eyewatering recommendation be the figure put on the cost of meet the obligation : £ 319 billion over the next 15 year . frontloade that will be a net cost to industry every year until 2050 . be that exorbitant cost the reason that he cancel his Department ' s review , commission by his predecessor , into the whole - system cost of net zero ? I deeply regret the direction in which the hon . Gentleman be go . the Climate Change Committee do incredibly important work . we will look at CB7 , but the big cost we face as a country be if we do not act on the climate crisis . that be what would leave hundred of billion of pound of cost to future generation . the right hon . Gentleman might be content with sign our energy sovereignty over to the People ' s Republic of China , and he might be happy with his government ' s arbitrary target and ban , push bill up and leave we more reliant on import and cost job , but we think it be time for a new approach , as the Leader of the opposition say this morning , focus on security and cost to the consumer , not pie - in - the - sky target with no plan to reach they . will he recommission the review into the whole - system cost ? if not , what be he try to hide ? it be the Tory party that have an energy surrender policy : surrender we to fossil fuel market control by petrostate and dictator . the Tories would keep we lock in to fossil fuel , threaten billion of pound of investment in net zero and leave our child and grandchild a terrible legacy . that be the conservative party in 2025 : anti - job , anti - growth , anti - business and anti - future generation . I welcome the plan bring forward last week to provide money off for people live near new energy infrastructure . do the Minister agree that this be yet another thing that the Conservatives promise , but never have the ability to deliver ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that we have move forward on deliver our plan that people host important infrastructure in their constituency should benefit from it . the Conservatives consult on it , like so many policy that they talk and talk and talk about , but fail to deliver over 14 year — we be move on with deliver it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in the recent advice for its seventh carbon budget , the Climate Change Committee highlight the urgency of ensure cheap electricity so that household can transition away from gas heating . when will the Government act to improve energy security and reduce cost for the household seek to adopt low - carbon heating by reform policy cost on energy bill ? as we discuss early , the CCC raise an important issue that we need to look at . the key question on this so - call rebalancing be that it must be look at in the context of understand the principled case , while also ensure that if we go down that or another route , we do so in a way that be fair . that be the work that my Department be engage on . I have recently meet a number of family who be member of the British Coal staff superannuation scheme . while I know they will welcome the Minister ' s early comment , as have be say , many be in their 70 and 80 , and they be keen for answer . could the Minister expand on her early comment to say more about the next step and when my constituent might get a sense of the timeline and progress go forward ? I thank my hon . friend for his concern for his constituent . as I say , I be very receptive to call from BCSSS trustee . I write to the Chancellor , who send back a positive response , and we be now take the next step in this process . I will be reconvene trustee to meet and talk about it again . Martin , a disabled resident , live in his park home in Maidenhead . after his boiler break down two month ago , he have face significant challenge . he be unable to apply for the boiler upgrade scheme , as park home do not get energy performance certificate , and the National Energy Foundation , which visit he three week ago , have still not provide he with a response . will the Secretary of State outline what support he can give Martin and other elderly resident without heat or hot water ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . we be very aware of the issue with park home , and industry support be provide to resident . as we think about expand the warm home discount and the support we provide for household that can not afford their energy , we will , of course , have park home in our mind . do the Minister agree that community ownership project will be crucial to achieve our world - lead net zero goal , and will he come to Edinburgh to see some of our fantastic community power project ? yes , that sound really good . community energy be a crucial part of our energy future . the Secretary of State and I be near neighbour . will he take a short car journey to Gainsborough to visit the new fusion site at West Burton ? it be probably the most exciting development in green energy that we have ever have in this country , create unlimited job and unlimited green energy . will he join I in Gainsborough ? the right hon . Gentleman and I do not necessarily agree on everything , but on this we do agree . the transformation of the West Burton site from a fossil fuel - fire power station to a fusion power plant be an incredibly exciting project , and we should all be battle for it . the Minister may be aware that SSE be support more than 1 , 000 new home in rural Scotland to aid energy infrastructure development . do he agree that the SNP Scottish Government ' s failure to get a grip on our rural housing crisis be a major barrier to infrastructure development , and will he urge SSE to expand the scheme into my constituency , where we have key project around the community of Killin , Lochearnhead , Tyndrum and Crianlarich ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . he underline the importance not just of deliver on energy project but the wide economic benefit from build infrastructure — the kind of infrastructure that the Conservatives now oppose . he be right that in order to deliver these project , we need to see investment in rural community by the Scottish Government . we will continue to press they on those issue . Kent county council plan to introduce 10 , 000 on - street car charger over the next decade . to put that in context , Kent have a population of 1 . 6 million people . at this rate , Kent will have burn down by the time we all have electric on - street car charging . what can the Secretary of State do to speed this up ? the hon . Gentleman raise a really important issue . roll out electric car infrastructure be incredibly important . if he write to my Department , we will ensure that he get the good possible reply . will minister consider exercise the community electricity right within the Infrastructure Act 2015 to require commercial renewable energy developer to offer community the opportunity to part - own scheme develop in their area ? my hon . friend raise an important matter . as an energy nerd , I be really interested in this 2015 power , which , despite my nerdery , I do not actually know about . we be actively look at this really important power , which be put in place by the previous Government . in response to a write question to I last week , the Minister confirm that no nationally significant infrastructure project have be consent to that will use great than 50 % good and most versatile agricultural land . in my constituency , the East Park Energy solar farm be close to 75 % , but the overarch national policy statement for energy state at paragraph 5 . 11 . 34 : " the Secretary of State should ensure that applicant do not site their scheme on the good and most versatile agricultural land without justification . " can the Minister confirm whether nearly 1 , 500 acre of good and most versatile land be too much good - quality agricultural land to sacrifice ? the hon . Gentleman will know that any nationally significant project go through a proper planning process , and it would not be right for I to comment on that . none the less , I be sure that the decision maker will be look closely at the issue that he have raise . there be to be a much reduce testing process for oil at the import terminal at Grangemouth . be the Secretary of State concern that , if import oil do not pass these reduce test , it can not be use , lead to Scotland suffer a fuel shortage ? throughout the seven month that we have be in government , we have be do everything we can to work with the operator of the Grangemouth refinery . of course we be disappoint by its closure . we have carry out a number of piece of work on fuel security . we be not concerned about that at this point , but , across the whole country , we keep constantly it under review . although the Leader of the Opposition think that achieve net zero be impossible without " bankrupt we " , investment in low carbon energy for community such as Severn Beach in my constituency could create valuable skilled job . what step will the Government take to ensure that the area around the River Severn will get the investment that it need to realise its potential ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right on that . the opposition be off to the " Wacky Races " when it come to net zero . we in the Labour party know the truth : net zero be the economic opportunity of the 21st century and , under this Government , we will seize it . carbon capture , utilisation and storage be the central plank of the Humber 2030 vision . do the Secretary of State have any plan to meet the Humber Energy Board , and if he do not will he join I in do so ? I talk every day to my hon . friend about her constituency and I be very happy to meet whoever she want I to , because we think this be an incredibly important matter . the opportunity for her area and the Humber be great if we can harness the talent of the people in her constituency . require developer to include solar panel in all new home and building would be extremely popular with the public and help deliver net zero target . can the Secretary of State give an update on his discussion with the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , include those on mandatory solar as part of the future home and building standard ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . we be actively work on that in government . whatever one ' s view on ground - mount solar — we in the Labour party think that it have a role — we do need solar panel on rooftop . it be an important opportunity . while we be about it , perhaps the hon . Gentleman can start support our plan on planning and infrastructure so that we can build the clean energy infrastructure that we need . the Secretary of State will be aware of the ongoing work to deliver new nuclear investment in Hartlepool . billion of pound be on the table , which will mean job and skill for generation to come . will he meet I to discuss how we can get this deal over the line ? new nuclear be an essential part of our future energy plan . my Ministers and I would be absolutely delighted to meet my hon . friend to discuss those plan . I welcome the warm word from the Secretary of State early about the Acorn project . how confident be he that the Chancellor be listen ? I speak as an old lag in these thing : we have never have a Prime Minister and a Chancellor so enthusiastic and commit to the net zero agenda and what it can do economically for our country . the right hon . Gentleman should take heart from that . teesside be see thousand of job come on stream in carbon capture and storage , but the Conservatives ' new energy policy would put those job at risk . will the Secretary of State restate his commitment to this industry , and will he work to establish a Europe - wide CO2 market to bring investment and job to our region ? my hon . friend put it so well . this be the economic opportunity of our time . our investment in carbon capture and storage show what be possible . today ' s desperate request for attention from the opposition be anti - business , anti - job , anti - growth , anti - investment and the wrong choice for Britain . Speaker ' s Statement before we continue proceeding , I pay tribute to John " Paddy " Hemingway , the last survive Battle of Britain pilot , who die yesterday at the age of 105 . Mr Hemingway be a teenager when he join the RAF during the second world war . at the age of 21 he be a fighter pilot in the Battle of Britain , a three - month air campaign in 1940 to protect the southern part of England and british shipping from large - scale assault by the Luftwaffe . there be no doubt that the courage and overwhelming sense of duty of RAF pilot such as Mr Hemingway help to end the second world war and allow we the freedom that we enjoy today . Welfare Reform this Government be ambitious for our people and our country . we believe that unleash the talent of the british people be the key to our future success . but the social security system that we inherit from the Conservatives be fail the very people that it be suppose to help and be hold our country back . the fact speak for themselves . one in 10 people of working age be now claim a sickness or disability benefit . almost 1 million young people be not in education , employment or training — one in eight of all our young people . some 2 . 8 million be out of work due to long - term sickness , and the number of people claim personal independence payment be set to double this decade from 2 million to 4 . 3 million , with the growth in claim rise fast among young people and those with mental health condition . claim be up to four time high in part of the midland , Wales and the north where economic demand be weak . these place be decimate in the ' 80 and ' 90 , write off for year by successive Tory Governments and never give the chance that they deserve . the consequence of that failure be there for all to see . million of people who could work be trap on benefit , deny the income , hope , dignity and self - respect that we know that good work bring . taxpayer be pay million more for the cost of failure , with spending on working - age sickness and disability benefit up £ 20 billion since the pandemic , and set to rise by a furth £ 18 billion by the end of this Parliament to £ 70 billion a year . it be not like this in most other comparable country , where spend on these benefit since the pandemic be either stable or fall , while ours continue to inexorably rise . that be the legacy of 14 year of Tory failure . today , we say , " no more " . since we be elect we have hit the ground run to get more people into good work through our plan for change . we be invest an extra £ 26 billion into the NHS to drive down waiting list and get people back to health and back to work . we be improve the quality of work and make work pay with our landmark employment right legislation and increase in the national living wage ; we be create more good job in every part of the country in clean energy and through our modern industrial strategy ; and we be introduce the big reform to employment support in a generation , with our £ 240 million get Britain working plan . today , our pathway to work Green Paper set out decisive action to fix the broken benefit system , create a more proactive , pro - work system for those who can work and so protect those who can not work , now and for the long term . as a constituency MP for 14 year , I know that there will always be people who can never work because of the severity of their disability or illness . under this Government , the social security system will always be there for people in genuine need . that be a principle we will never compromise on . disabled people and people with health condition who can work , however , should have the same right , choice and chance to work as everybody else . that principle of equality be vital too , because , far from what Conservative Members would have we believe , many sick and disabled people want to work , with the right help and support . unlike the Conservatives , that be what we will deliver . our first aim be to secure a decisive shift towards prevention and early intervention . almost 4 million people be in work with a work - limit health condition and around 300 , 000 fall out of work every year . we have to do far more to help people stay in work and get back to work quickly , because their chance of return be five time high in the first year . our plan to give statutory sick pay to 1 million of the lowest - pay worker and provide more right to flexible working will help keep more people in work . the WorkWell programme be trialle new approach , such as GPs refer people to employment adviser instead of sign they off sick . our keep Britain Working review , lead by former John Lewis boss Sir Charlie Mayfield , will set out what Government and employer can do together to create healthy , more inclusive workplace . we will therefore help more employer to offer opportunity for disabled people , include through measure such as reasonable readjustment , alongside our Green Paper consultation on reform Access to work so it be fit for the future . today , I can announce another step . our Green Paper will consult on a major reform of contributory benefit , merge contribution - base jobseeker ' s allowance and employment support allowance into a new time - limit unemployment insurance pay at a high rate , without someone have to prove that they can not work in order to get it . therefore , if someone have pay into the system , they will get strong income protection while we help they get back on track . our second objective be to restore trust and fairness in the benefit system by fix the broken assessment process and tackle the perverse incentive that drive people into welfare dependency . Labour Members have long argue that the work capability assessment be not fit for purpose . go through the WCA be complex , time - consume and often stressful for claimant , especially if they also have to go through the PIP assessment . more fundamentally , it be base on a binary can - or - can not - work divide , when we know that the truth be that many people ' s physical and mental health condition fluctuate . the consultation on the Conservatives ' discredit WCA proposal be rule unlawful by the court . I can therefore announce today that we will not go ahead with their proposal . instead , we will scrap the WCA in 2028 . in future , extra financial support for health condition in universal credit will be available solely through the PIP assessment . extra income be therefore base on the impact of someone ' s health condition or disability and not on their capacity to work , reduce the number of assessment that people have to go through and provide a vital step towards deriske work . and we will do more , by legislate for a right to try , guarantee that work in and of itself will never lead to a benefit reassessment and give people the confidence to take the plunge and try work without the fear that that will put their benefit at risk . we will also tackle the perverse financial incentive that the Tories create , which actively encourage people into welfare dependency . they run down the value of the universal credit standard allowance . as a result , the health top - up be now worth double the standard allowance , at more than £ 400 a month . in 2017 , they take away extra financial help for the group of people who could prepare for work , so we be leave with a binary assessment of whether people can or can not work , and there be a clear financial incentive for someone to define themselves as incapable of work — a factor the Office for Budget Responsibility , the Institute for Fiscal Studies and other say be likely to be drive people on to incapacity benefit . today , we tackle this problem head - on . we will legislate to rebalance the payment in universal credit from April next year , fix the value of the health top - up in cash term for exist claimant and reduce it for new claimant , with an additional premium for people with severe , lifelong condition that mean they will never work , to give they the financial security they deserve . alongside that , we will bring in a permanent , above - inflation rise to the standard allowance in universal credit for the first time ever . this mean a £ 775 annual increase in cash term by 2029 - 30 , and it be a decisive step to tackle the perverse incentive in the system . we will also fix the fail system of reassessment . the Conservatives fail to switch reassessment back on after the pandemic , so they be now down by more than two third , and face - to - face assessment have go from seven in 10 to only one in 10 . we will turn these reassessment back on at scale , shift the focus back to do more face - to - face , and ensure that they be record as standard , to give confidence to claimant and taxpayer that they be be do properly . I can also announce that , for people on universal credit with the most severe disability and health condition that will never improve , we want to ensure that they be never reassess , in order to give they the confidence and dignity they deserve . we will also fundamentally overhaul the Department for Work and Pensions ' safeguard approach to make sure that all our process and training be of the high quality , so that we protect and support the most vulnerable people . alongside these change we will also reform disability benefit so that they focus support on those in great need and ensure that the social security system last for the long term into the future . social and demographic change mean that more people be now live with a disability , but the increase in disability benefit be double the rate of increase prevalence of working - age disability in the country : claim among young people be up 150 % ; claim for mental health condition be up 190 % ; and claim for learn difficulty be up by over 400 % , accord to the IFS . every day there be more than 1 , 000 new PIP award . that be the equivalent of add a population the size of Leicester every single year . that be not sustainable in the long term , above all for the people who depend on that support , but the Tories have no proper plan to deal with it — just yet more ill - thought - through consultation . so today I can announce that this Government will not bring in the Tory proposal for voucher , because disabled people should have choice and control over their life . we will not mean - test PIP , because disabled people deserve extra support , whatever their income , and I can confirm that we will not freeze PIP either . instead , our reform will focus support on those with the great need . we will legislate for a change in PIP so that people will need to score a minimum of four point in at least one activity to qualify for the daily live element of PIP from November 2026 . that will not affect the mobility component of PIP and relate only to the daily live element . alongside that , we will launch a review of the PIP assessment , lead by my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability , in close consultation with disabled people , the organisation that represent they and other expert , so that we can ensure that PIP and the assessment process be fit for purpose now and into the future . this significant reform package be expect to save over £ 5 billion in 2029 - 30 ; the OBR will set out its final assessment of the costing next week . our third and final objective be to deliver personalised support to sick and disabled people who can work so that they can get the job they need and deserve . we know from the last Labour Government ' s new deal for disabled people , young people and the long - term unemployed the difference that proper employment support can make . more recent evidence from the Work Choice programme and additional work coach time show that support can make a significant difference in the number of people get and keep work and improve their mental health and wellbeing . this Labour Government believe that an active state can transform people ' s life . we know that because we have do it before . today I can announce that we will invest an additional £ 1 billion a year in employment support , with the aim of guarantee high - quality , tailored and personalise support to help people on a pathway to work — the large ever investment in opportunity to work for sick and disabled people . alongside that , for those on the UC health top - up , we will bring in an expectation to engage and a new support conversation to talk about people ' s goal and aspiration , combine with an offer of personalised health , skill and employment support . we will go far , because be out of work or training be so damaging for young people ' s future prospect . in addition to fund our youth guarantee through the £ 240 million get Britain Working plan , we will consult on delay access to the health top - up in universal credit until someone be age 22 , reinveste the saving into work support and training opportunity , so that every young person be earn or learn and on a pathway to success . the Conservatives leave a broken benefit system that be fail the people who depend on it and our country as a whole . the status quo be unacceptable , but it be not inevitable . we be elect on a mandate for change to end the stick - plaster approach and tackle the root cause of problem in this country , which have be ignore for too long . we believe in the value and potential of every single person : we all have something positive to contribute and can make a difference , whether that be in pay work , in our family or in our community alongside our neighbour and friend . we will unleash potential in every corner of the land , because we be as ambitious for the british people as they be for themselves . today we take decisive action , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . she and I agree on one thing : the welfare bill be too high . leave unchecked , it will rise to £ 100 billion by the end of the decade . spend more on sickness benefit than we do on defence be not the sign of a strong country . this be not just a question of money . we have 3 million people of working - age who be not in work due to ill health , not fill the role business need , not contribute to our economy and not fulfil their own potential . the good way to get the welfare bill down be to get people off benefit and into work . that be what we do year after year after take office in 2010 . despite the once - in - a - century pandemic , 4 million more people be in employment when we leave office than when we inherit Labour ' s mess . before the pandemic , economic inactivity be at an historic low , but it be true that we then start to see a new phenomenon : grow number of people , and — particularly worryingly — young people , claim sickness benefit . a system set up with good intention to protect the most vulnerable in society have over time morph into something broad , drive in part by a well - intentione but not always helpful medicalisation of life ' s up and down . in government , we identify the problem and work up plan to tackle it , but at every point Labour Members oppose they . in fact , the now Chancellor say that not one single penny could be save from benefit . when they come into office , not only do they cancel or delay pretty much everything we hand over , but they have no plan of their own . they walk into the Department with empty notebook . all they have do in opposition be oppose , instead of the hard work of come up with their own answer . that be why the country have have to wait another eight month for this announcement . in that time , taxpayer have shell out £ 7 billion in extra sickness benefit , and nearly half a million people have be sign off sick . in fact , 60 people be sign on to sickness benefit while the Secretary of State be talk . none the less , I have be look forward to hear what the right hon . Lady would announce today and which of the many thing brief to the medium her spin policy wheel would eventually land on . govern be hard — we know that . in the last few week , the Government have make it look really hard , but that be nothing compare with how hard life can be for a severely disabled person , somebody for whom get up , get dressed and get breakfast — thing most of we find easy this morning — be hard if not impossible . for some people , the last few week have be deeply frightening . they will be glad of the uncertainty finally end . I genuinely want the right hon . Lady to succeed , and I welcome her commitment today to increase the number of reassessment and to have more of they face to face and record . I welcome the investment in employment support for disabled people . I welcome , of course , her reannounce a host of thing that we be do in government . scrap the work capability assessment and create a single assessment be already government policy that be due to come in in 2026 - 27 . her big idea seem to be to delay that until 2028 . merge new - style jobseeker ' s allowance and employment and support allowance into a new time - limit high rate be a proposal that we work up in government . we launch a consultation on tighten up eligibility for PIP and , by the way , we would have go much far with that . we consult on end reassessment for people whose health condition will not improve , and the right to try guarantee sound remarkably similar to our chance to work guarantee . of course , on the Secretary of State ' s continued support for WorkWell , I launch that programme with the now shadow Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) . in fact , the only original idea I can see in the entire announcement be increase the rate of unemployment benefit — a Labour policy if ever I have hear one . this be a now - or - never chance to seize the moment — a now or never for million of people who will otherwise be sign off for what could end up be a lifetime on benefit — but today ' s announcement leave I with more question than answer . how many people will be help back into work and by when ? surely we have not be wait eight month for just another Green Paper . where be the fit note reform crucial to stem the flow of people on to benefit ? where be the action on people be sign off sick for the everyday up and down of life ? why be the right hon . Lady planning to save only £ 5 billion when the bill be forecast to rise to over £ 100 billion ? do the saving she be announce today include the £ 5 billion we have already agree with the OBR for reform the work capability assessment ? if so , she have make virtually no saving of her own . what be the net saving give the additional expenditure plan ? fundamentally , this be too little , too late . the fact be that £ 5 billion just do not cut it with a bill so big go up so fast . she need to be tough . she should be say , " no more hard - work taxpayer fund the family next - door not to work , no free top - of - the - range car for people who do not need they , no more sickfluencer help people to claim money they do not need . " before the right hon . Lady put on her angry voice and lean across the Dispatch Box to shout at I about " 14 year " , I gently say to she that everybody in this Chamber and around the country know that we lose and Labour win . her job now be to govern and mine be to hold she to account . our country need everybody who can work to do so . that principle should be at the heart of our welfare system . it be good for the taxpayer , good for the economy and good for the individual and their family , who benefit from security , dignity and purpose that work bring , and it mean that those who genuinely can not work get the support that they deserve . the fact be that few people work under Labour . that have happen every time Labour have be in office , and it be already happen now . the Government should have take their time in opposition to come up with meaningful reform , but they do not , and the country be already pay the price . I personally like the hon . Lady a great deal , but her entire response seem to be rail against her own party ' s failing and lament action that her party fail to take . " too little , too late , " will indeed be the epitaph of the conservative party . one thing on which I agree with she that this be a now - or - never moment , and I be proud that this Government be take it . we be take decisive action , duck the challenge that have be ignore for too long . I be not interested in be tough . this be about real people with real life , and we must be careful in how we talk about it . I be interested in take the right step to change the system in order to transform people ' s life and , crucially , ensure that we have a social security system that last . one in three of we will have a health condition in our lifetime , and one in four be disabled . unless the country , the welfare state , the world of work and all our public service wake up to that fact , the welfare state that the Labour party create will not be there for future generation . that be what we be determined to secure . this be a substantial package of measure that will save around £ 5 billion by 2029 - 30 . we will have to wait until the OBR come up with its final costing on all this at the spring statement . I leave hon . member with this : a decade ago , former Chancellor George Osborne say : " government … let … unemployed people get park on disability benefit , and tell they ' d never work again . why ? because people on disability benefit don ' t get count in unemployment figure that could embarrass politician . " the Labour party be not embarrassed about this situation ; we be ashamed of the state the Tories leave the country in . we will face up to our responsibility ; it be time that Conservative Members do the same . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement . I absolutely agree : our social security system be not fit for purpose . the measure , particularly those to increase employment support by £ 1 billion a year and to increase the standard allowance of universal credit , which the opposition fail to do in government , will be positively feel . I appreciate the difficult financial circumstance that we face . despite the opposition ' s assertion that £ 5 billion be not a huge figure , this be the large cut in social security support since 2015 . there be alternative and more compassionate way to balance the book , rather than on the back of disabled people . I absolutely and fundamentally believe that my right hon . friend be on the right course , but I implore my party to try to bed in our reform before we make the cut , as other have ask . there be so much evidence of the adverse effect that the conservative party have through cut to support and restriction to eligibility criterion when it be in government , include the death of vulnerable people . that can not be repeat . I would be grateful if my right hon . friend publish as a matter of urgency the Government ' s analysis of the impact , particularly mental health impact , and outline when we be expect to respond . I thank my hon . friend for her response . we will publish the equality and poverty impact analysis alongside the spring statement . I know that she be a lifelong champion of sick and disabled people , and she have rightly raise concern , include through the Select Committee , of vital issue such as safeguarding . I look forward to receive the Select Committee ' s report on that in order to learn from the evidence that it receive . although this be a substantial package with those estimate saving , spend on working - age sickness and disability benefit will continue to rise over this Parliament . the last forecast be that they would continue to rise by £ 18 billion . as she say , these be important issue , and we need to work to get this right to ensure that proper support be in place for people . I genuinely look forward to work with the Select Committee to get all these proposal right . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for share her statement in advance — that be extremely welcome . the Liberal Democrats want to see more people in work , include those with disability . sadly , the significant blocker to those people get into work be the appalling state of the health and social care system leave behind by the Tories — to my mind , in more way than one . we desperately need the new Labour Government to drive forward with reform to invest in and improve our health service . the devil be in the detail of these proposal . I fear what we will find as we turn over rock over the next few day , particularly for the most vulnerable . the Secretary of State have describe the system as break , so how will she drive significant change through the measure ? I fear that this be just tinker around the edge when we need real culture change within the DWP and investment in our NHS . that be absolutely essential . I agree with the hon . Gentleman that we need extra investment in the NHS and to overhaul the culture of the DWP , and that be precisely what we be do . we be invest an additional £ 26 billion into the NHS , an extra £ 172 million into the disabled facility grant to help disabled people to live independently , and £ 3 . 7 billion into social care , which be such an important issue . we need a decisive cultural shift in the DWP . that be why our Get Britain Working plan include proposal to overhaul jobcentre . we have also say today that we need to look fundamentally at our safeguard approach . our pathway to work programme be genuinely just that . for some people , get out of the house be an achievement ; for other , it be maybe go along to a community group , do voluntary action or get skill . that be what we mean , and we will work closely not only with the NHS and social care — and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care — but with voluntary organisation , which have such a vital role in help people on to a pathway to success . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s commitment to ensure that no one be on the scrapheap when it come to work and that everyone get the support that they need . I note that she be consult on delay access to the health top - up in universal credit until the age of 22 . will she explain the rationale for that age , and what saving do she expect to make if that consultation go forward ? my hon . friend raise a really important issue . patience be not my great virtue , but member will need to wait until the spring statement for the OBR ' s full assessment of individual measure and the saving they make . on delay access to the health top - up for people under 22 , there will be a specific exemption for those who be never able to work because their disability be so severe . this be all about match it with our youth guarantee , announce in the Get Britain Working plan , to make sure every young person be earn or learn . if someone be not in education , employment or training when they be young , the impact can be lifelong and scar on their health , job prospect and earning , so we have to put that right . how precisely will these benefit cut be realise , give this Government ' s anti - business Budget , which have see business close at the fast rate since Labour be last in office ? of those still stand , 30 % be plan to cut staff to cope with the increase in employer ' national insurance contribution . where be the job ? we know Labour be the party of the magic money tree ; be Labour now the party of the magic job tree , too ? the only party that believe in magic money be the Conservative party , who write a cheque that they could not pay . unlike Conservative Members , we believe that good work and right at work be of benefit to business , because the good business know that they help retain people and reduce the cost of recruitment . we be overhaul our approach in the DWP to employer , because only one in six ever use a jobcentre to recruit . we want to have a single account manager for all business . we be go to make sure our jobcentre be much more embed in their local community , so that they have detailed knowledge of individual employer . that be the way that we get Britain work and grow again . when the Government make the decision to go down this route , do they understand the pain and difficulty that it will cause million of our constituent who be use food bank and social supermarket ? these people be on the brink . this £ 5 billion cut be go to impact they more than her Department give credence to . I would like to be able to look my constituent in the eye and tell they that this be go to work for they . as thing stand , my constituent , my friend and my family be very angry about this , and they do not think this be the kind of action that a Labour Government take . I have great respect for my hon . friend , but let I say this to he . I have spend year chair Feeding Leicester , the programme to end hunger in my city , and I know that I can look my constituent in the eye and say to they : I know that get more people into well pay job be the key to their future success , and I know that deal with their mental health problem , which be so prevalent , be essential . if someone can work , we will give they the help to get back on their foot , because that be the long - term route to tackle poverty and tackle inequality , which be what this Labour party be all about . like the Secretary of State , I be elect in 2010 , and I need to tell she that our recollection differ . when I come into this role , after 13 year of Labour government , 7 . 5 % of young people in the Gosport constituency be not in education , employment or training . that number be down to 3 % last year . since Labour have take office , 83 , 000 more people across this country of working age be now unemployed . business in the sector that take on so many young people across our constituency , from adult social care to childcare to hair and beauty , be tell I that they be not take on more staff as a result of her Chancellor ' s change to national insurance contribution . surely the two be mutually incompatible . unless we cut waiting time and waiting list in the NHS , people can not get back to health and back to work — many employer have say to I that they be deeply concerned about that — and that be the reason we be invest an extra £ 26 billion into the NHS . we be deal with precisely those key sector — health and social care , construction and so on — where employer want people with the skill to do those job . we be overhaul our approach in DWP and set up sector - base work academy programme specifically tailor to employer ' need . I know there be more we need to do to work with employer and help they get people back into work , and that be what this Government will deliver . after 14 year of conservative failure , there be a 29 % employment gap and a 17 % pay gap for disabled people in this country . we must therefore ensure that the social model of disability be central to Government decision making , to achieve inclusive growth that enable disabled people to fulfil their potential . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s proactive approach to reasonable adjustment and the £ 1 billion support package to get disabled people back into work where they can work , as well as her recognition that PIP be design as an in - work benefit to enable people to live independently . research show that supportive , incentive - base approach massively outperform cut or sanction in get disabled people into sustainable employment . what work have she do to develop inclusive growth strategy across all employment sector , to close the disability employment gap and the disability pay gap ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . at the heart of our mission be provide equal right and choice for disabled people to work . we will be work with disabled people and the organisation that represent they to develop our pathway to work employment support so that we get it right , because we will not do that unless we work closely with disabled people . we be also work right across Government — we have disability Ministers in every single Department who be drive this agenda forward — and I know that my hon . friend will give much value advice and help to make sure we get it right in every part of Government . encourage and enable people to get back to work be a laudable aim , but how can the Secretary of State assume £ 5 billion of success in advance of actually roll out the programme ? surely the right approach be to let the reform generate saving naturally by a concrete reduction in need , rather than to set an arbitrary target beforehand . we be not set an arbitrary target . we be fix a broken system , and we be take action immediately , because we believe we have to put in place employment support , health support and social care support at the same time as fix a broken benefit system . I always start with people — what do we need to do to give people the opportunity they deserve if they can work ? what do we need to do to make sure the social security system last ? we can not put that off any long , because it be not good enough for the people we be elect to serve . PIP be a devolved benefit , know as the adult disability payment in Scotland . can my right hon . friend assure I that she will work with partner , include the Scottish Government , to ensure that disabled people across the whole UK get the support they need ? absolutely — that be very important for I personally and for the Government as a whole . we want people in Scotland to have the same chance and choice to work if they can as everybody else and to make sure people have proper protection . that be essential for we , and I will continue to work closely with the Scottish Government , as I know other Departments will . youth unemployment stand at 642 , 000 as of the last quarter of 2024 — a rise of 136 , 000 on 2023 — with a youth unemployment rate of 14 . 8 % . the Secretary of State talk about earn and learning . do she agree that one way of attract some people back into work would be to get more young people into his Majesty ' s armed force — the Air Force , the Navy and the Army — and will she discuss that with the Defence Secretary ? I absolutely agree . indeed , before I be appoint to this position , as a constituency MP in opposition I discuss with my local jobcentre and the armed force recruitment team precisely these issue , because the exciting career and opportunity that be available be really important for young people in my constituency and the right hon . Gentleman ' s . I will certainly have more conversation with colleague in the Ministry of Defence to make sure we put this plan into action . I have hear many people make a moral case for the change that my right hon . friend have announce today , but do she agree that over the last 20 year those with large amount of wealth have do extremely well while average household income have stagnate and the standard of live for the overwhelming majority have go down ? so while we make a moral case for change to the benefit system , should we not also be make the case for how we can tax wealth as oppose to income ? my hon . friend be right that those with the broad shoulder should bear the big burden , which be why I be very proud that we have close loophole in the non - dom tax status , look at the profit of the energy company and tackled issue in many other area . fairness in the tax system be an absolute principle of the Labour party . the Government say they will not change our fiscal rule because of their manifesto . they say they will not change their tax policy because of their manifesto . they say they will not change their position on the single market because of their manifesto . perhaps the Secretary of State could outline to I and to people right across the UK where in her manifesto it state that they be go to take £ 5 billion away from disabled people ? I be very happy to send a highlight version of our manifesto to the right hon . Gentleman , where we say we would reform or replace the WCA , we say we would make sure we deal with the backlog in Access to work , we say we would make work pay , we say we would invest more in the NHS , we say we would improve employment right , and we say we would create job in every part of the country . I be very proud that we be deliver on it and I just ask the right hon . gentleman to take a look at what be happen in Scotland and at the Scottish Government ' s record , because there be probably more they could do . I be delighted to hear my right hon . friend announce additional investment in high quality , tailored and personalise support to help people on a pathway to work and the recognition that for so many it be indeed a pathway , not just a series of referral that merely lead back to square one . can my right hon . friend assure I that joint work with local support service like those in Clwyd North , which be already do great work , will form part of this reform so that a truly local , person - centre approach can be achieve ? yes . we will not get this right unless we draw on the huge strength of our voluntary and community organisation . I have never believe that there be hard - to - reach group ; it be just that we need to change what we do . there be a lot we can learn from group like those my hon . friend mention , because it really be a pathway to work . we have get to end this false divide between those who can and can not work , and instead understand that there be step towards a well life . that be what this Government want to deliver . I have two practical question . first , the Secretary of State say she be join jobseeker ' s allowance and employment and support allowance into a new time - limit unemployment insurance ; what be that time limit ? secondly , she say there would be an expectation on people to look for work ; what happen when they do not meet that expectation and what discipline be face if they do not take that up ? the time limit be one of the thing we be consult on in the Green Paper and I look forward to hear the hon . Gentleman ' s view on that . on the expectation to engage , it be interesting that when we have start to free up our work coach time and offer support on the phone and in person , many people have come forward , because we be try to change the culture . the Conservatives always leap straight to a position where people refuse to get involve . we have get to change that culture ; that be the way that we will get more people on to that pathway to success . I agree with the Secretary of State that many disabled and sick people want to work , but the reality be that cut PIP will not address the reason why they do not . she outline that the reasonable adjustment framework for disabled people be very hard to navigate . it take I six month to navigate it for a member of my staff here in the place where we legislate , so how hard be it go to be for disabled people in the workplace to try to get employer to make those adjustment ? will the Secretary of State outline how she be go to make sure that the workplace be ready for the people who will be access it ? can she reassure I about the disability employment gap , which in a sense have nothing to do with benefit , but be to do with the reasonable adjustment that be not be make at the moment ? my hon . friend be a passionate advocate of these issue and she be right : we have to do far more to work with employer to ensure that those basic reasonable adjustment be make . that be one of the issue that Sir Charlie Mayfield be look at in our " keep Britain Working " review , precisely because we know that good employer understand the need to make these change . I be very happy to meet my hon . friend to go through this in more detail because she be right : we have to get this absolutely nail . first it be the pensioner and their winter fuel allowance , then it be the WASPI woman and broken promise , and now it be the sick and the vulnerable . we believe in protect the taxpayer but also in protect those who need our support the most , yet there be not a word about abuse or about those who be take money out of the system when they be not entitle to it . how can the Secretary of State rationalise in her own mind say in the statement that , on the one hand , she accept that people ' s health and wellbeing can fluctuate but that , on the other hand , she be go to do away with the accumulation of point ? to require an applicant to get four point in any one box do away with the ability to recognise that mental ill health in particular manifest itself in many different way . that accumulation of point have be incredibly important in get support for those who need it most . if it fluctuate , how come she be do away with that accumulation ? there be very clear evidence that good work be good for mental health . that be the case for people with anxiety and depression , but also for those with more severe condition such as psychosis and schizophrenia . there be really clear evidence from the NHS individual placement and support programme that if we can help people get into work , that be not only well for they and their income , but it reduce their relapse and spending on the NHS . the right hon . Gentleman ask how I rationalise this ; I do so because I be not prepared to accept a system that be miserable for people , that trap they in poverty , and that deny they the chance and support they deserve . I be also not prepared to accept an inexorable rise in cost and spending , much of which be on the cost of failure , precisely because I want to ensure that the social security system last for the long term . I think all Government Members understand the scale of the financial bin fire leave by the previous Government , but there be those who be worried and be seek assurance at home . for the 1 million people potentially lose disability support , what guarantee can my right hon . friend give that those who be unable to feed or toilet themselves will not lose out on personal care ? for the 1 million who can and do want to work , of course we welcome that £ 1 billion of extra support , but how be the Government go to hold unco - operative employer ' foot to the fire in give disabled people an equal chance of employment and career success ? I agree with my hon . friend : I know people be worried and concerned and that be a really important issue . it be why I disagree with the Opposition spokesman say that we need to be tough ; I be not interested in that because this be about real people and real life . the change to PIP be not come in immediately ; they will be come in from November 2026 for new claimant . those with severe condition who will never work will be protect . if people do have a reassessment , it will be do by a fully train assessor or a healthcare professional and will be base on their individual need . in order to ensure there be great confidence in those assessor and the decision that be be take , we will overhaul our safeguarding and training and we will record those assessment as standard , because that be essential . because working be so beneficial to mental health , will the Secretary of State require claimant to undertake socially useful work in order to retain their benefit ? no . I thank the Secretary of State for listen to disabled people and their organisation about end needless , wasteful and extremely expensive repeat reassessment for those with progressive condition . I hope that have be welcome by those who have campaign for it for many year . will the Green Paper include plan to tackle the disincentive to work for disabled people and other in support housing ? if they work for more than 15 hour a week , it can result in financial penalty . that system be not only ignore by the Conservatives , but actually put in place by the Conservative and liberal Democrat party in coalition , when they fumble the introduction of universal credit . will this government fix tax allowance to ensure that work always pay , include for disabled people in support housing ? my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability be look at that . I be sure that he will discuss those issue with my hon . friend , if he would like that . I have hear nothing today that show that the Government have listen to disabled people . any change to PIP should have be co - produce , but this week , 25 disabled people ' s group and charity write to Ministers beg for their opinion to be include , and not as an afterthought . will the Secretary for State explain why disabled people be feel so disregarded and scapegoate , and why impoverish they to the tune of £ 5 billion be a high priority than a simple wealth tax ? I think that many disabled people feel disregarded and ignore under the Conservative Government . we will be work with disabled people and the organisation that represent they on many — not all — aspect of what I have announce today . if the hon . Lady have particular issue and concern that she would like to raise , she can write to I , or I would be very happy for she to meet I or the Minister for Social Security and Disability . Mr Speaker , you know that there be decision make in this House that stay with you for the rest of your life . this be one of they . we all agree with the Secretary of State ' s objective of try to ensure that disabled people have the resource they need for a decent quality of life , and that those capable of work have support to get into work . however , try to find up to £ 5 billion of cut by manipulate the PIP rule and criterion will result in immense suffering and , as we have see in the past , loss of life . what independent monitoring will take place and be report to the House , and what threshold of suffering be need before an alternative route be take to support disabled people ? I take the issue relate to the measure I have announce today very seriously . we want to ensure that all the assessment process and training be properly scrutinise , and we be overhaul our safeguarding process . my objective be to improve the life and life chance of sick and disabled people by support into work those who can work , and by protect those who will never work , through switch off reassessment to give they dignity and respect . I believe that the mission to ensure that those who can work do , and to secure the sustainability of the social security system for the long term , be the responsibility of the Labour party that found the welfare state . one of the first act of this Government be to take away the winter fuel allowance from million of pensioner on income as low as £ 13 , 000 a year , include 44 , 000 who be — or be — terminally ill . will the Secretary of State reassure all our constituent that in make these change , she will not be go after those who have a terminal illness ? that be absolutely essential for I personally , and for the Government as a whole , and I give that assurance to the hon . Lady . however , I gently say to she that pensioner poverty increase under the Conservatives , and they leave 880 , 000 pensioner not get the pension credit they deserve . the Conservatives be suddenly convert to care about pensioner on low income . in contrast , we have decide to act . as a physio , I know that optimise somebody ' s function and independence , whether they be in work or not , save the system so much money , because it prevent dependency . however , I find that incongruous with the cut of £ 5 billion and the change to the eligibility criterion . will the Secretary of State ensure that before the measure be bring to the House , disabled people be consult and involve in the decision making ? we must ensure that people maintain their independence , psychological safety and dignity , and that they be not push far into poverty . I agree with my hon . friend that keep old people physically independent for as long as possible be vital . that be one of the reason why we be invest an extra £ 26 billion in the NHS . not only be we roll out employment adviser in talk therapy and mental health service , but we be start to do so when it come to physical health , too , include for people with musculoskeletal condition , because get people back to health and back to work be so important . we will legislate for the PIP change , and the House will have the full ability to debate they . crucially , we will consult disabled people on the employment support programme and how we get that right , so that it be much more join up with the health support that many sick and disabled people need . many of my Hazel Grove constituent be keen as mustard to get back to work , but they be wait for either a diagnosis or treatment on the NHS . that be make more difficult because of the capital spending need at Stepping Hill hospital , and because mental health service across Greater Manchester be stretch too thin . what assurance can the Secretary of State give my constituent that her announcement today will not make an already difficult time in their life even more difficult ? the hon . Lady be right to champion her constituent ' need . we recently undertake a survey of people on sickness and disability benefit , and two in five of they say that they be on a waiting list . that really concern we , and it be why we be put extra investment in place . we need to go far , fast , on drive waiting list down . we have already achieve the 2 million extra appointment that we say we would deliver in our manifesto — we do that seven month early — and we will do even more to ensure that her constituent get back to health and back to work . nearly 1 million young people leave school be not in employment , training or education . my hon . friend the Member for St Helens North ( David Baines ) and I both represent St Helens . a couple of week ago , we receive a letter from college tutor who be have difficulty get young people to take up employment , training or education , ask if we could we do anything about that . will the Secretary of State say a little more about the guarantee of employment for young people , and how we will get they to accept training ? those young people be afraid of a cut in universal credit . I have to admit that I do not know that young people be on universal credit . I promise I would keep my answer shorter , because so many colleague want to get in . our youth guarantee will be roll out from next month . mayor and local leader will bring together work , health and skill support locally . I be very happy to talk to my hon . friend personally about what more we can do in her constituency , because she be right that we have to get those young people on a pathway to success . when I fight the last election , I be honest with my electorate , tell they that we would save £ 12 billion from the welfare budget . be the Minister honest with her electorate when she talk about Labour ' s plan to cut disability welfare , or be she make this policy on the hoof because the Chancellor have destroy economic growth ? the Conservatives do not have a plan . the former Chancellor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , admit during the general election campaign that the money have already be score . I will listen more to the hon . member when the Conservatives put forward a plan that work , instead of have it discredit in the court . too many carer of disabled people end up with physical and mental health disability themselves , and end up trap in the same system as their love one . what more can the Secretary of State do with her colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care and the Department for Education to end that trap ? I have be a lifelong champion of family carer , who give their all to look after the people they love . my hon . friend will know that we have already boost the carer ' s allowance earn threshold by £ 45 a week to £ 196 , benefit more than 60 , 000 carer by ' 29 - 30 — the big ever cash increase in the earning threshold for carer . we need to do much more to support family carer , include enable they to balance their work and caring responsibility . I look forward to talk to my hon . friend about that . the Secretary of State say that she will legislate for a change in PIP , so that in future , people must score a minimum of four point in at least one activity to qualify . that mean that an individual who need supervision or assistance with therapy for three and a half hour a week , prompt and assistance with washing , assistance to get into the bath or shower , supervision to manage their toilet need , and assistance to dress and undress their low body would no long qualify for PIP . how many such individual be there ? it do not mean that . every single case be assess on individual need . it be really important that the hon . Lady and her constituent understand that we will protect those with severe disability who can never work . anyone who go through a reassessment will have it do base on their personal need . my right hon . friend will agree that under the manage decline of the SNP , people in Scotland be more likely to be economically inactive than those in the rest of the UK . she will far agree that we have great ambition for the people of Scotland , particularly young people , than the Conservative party . do she agree that these reform be absolutely necessary to put more scot back to work , and back on the road to prosperity ? yes , I would . People in Scotland deserve the same chance and choice to work . they deserve to get skill and training , to not have young people leave school without the qualification they need , to have an nhs that be reduce waiting time , and to have overhaul jobcentre — absolutely . we will continue to work with the Scottish Government to put all those problem right , because we want people in every part of this country to benefit . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s shift towards prevention . last May , my constituent Alexander McRandal be ride his motorbike on the lane of east Devon when he strike a pothole and be throw from his bike . his collision result in permanent nerve damage . he have have to leave a 40 - year career , and his wife Louise have give up work to look after he . while they will be reassure to hear that the Government will not freeze PIP , do the Secretary of State recognise that more investment in local government be need to prevent situation like theirs ? I be really sorry to hear about what have happen to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent and his family , and the impact it have on they . there be absolutely more that we need to do to provide local support , which be why the Get Britain Working plan be not all be determine by Whitehall . local leader know well what local area need , which be why we be devolve more resource , power and responsibility to local area to ensure that we shift the focus towards prevention and early intervention and help people get back on their foot . when cut to incapacity support be introduce by the last government through the work - relate activity component , we see severe rise in poverty , no significant increase in employment , and case of mental ill health skyrocketing . in the north - east , we already have some of the high rate of poverty and ill health in the country , so what assurance can the Secretary of State give I that these change will not push people in area like mine far into poverty and ill health ? this be absolutely about area like those represent by my hon . friend — area that have be write off and deny opportunity for so long . it be really important that we look at this in the round . we be take action to create more good job in every part of the country through the modern industrial strategy , clean energy and building 1 . 5 million home . my right hon . friend the Health Secretary be send specific team into the 20 area with the high level of economic inactivity to drive down waiting list . there be much more that we need to do to focus this on the area that need help the most , and I look forward to work with my hon . friend to make that happen . today , across the United Kingdom and in my constituency of Upper Bann , so many genuine benefit recipient be fearful of what lie ahead — people who be vulnerable and need a compassionate welfare system to assist they in their day - to - day living . regrettably , no reassurance have be give to those people today , particularly on the four - point minimum requirement . there have be little mention of fraud and the genuine need to tackle it head - on . do the Secretary of State not believe that equip our benefit fraud officer with resource and power to catch and deal with those commit fraud would be a well starting point than sweep change that will be unlikely to outsmart the fraudster , but will hit the most vulnerable ? the hon . Lady may not know , but we have a fraud Bill go through Parliament right now , because we believe that £ 8 billion be waste on fraud every single year be unacceptable . I be more than happy to write to she to set out the content of that Bill ; we can then have another discussion . the reality remain that over the last few week , thousand of the most severely disabled people in my constituency and million across the UK have watch in disbelief as politician debate cut to the support that enable their very survival , leave many at break point . do the Secretary of State understand the real fear and distress that that have cause ? will she today commit at the Dispatch Box to ensure that not a single person who currently receive PIP will be unfairly punish or leave struggle by these plan ? I do understand the worry and anxiety . I hope I have make it clear to the House today that I do not start from a position of be tough : I start precisely from a position of compassion for people who can work and be be deny opportunity and for severely disabled people who will never work . that be one reason why we be overhaul our safeguarding process to ensure that those who can never work be never reassess , to give they the confidence and dignity that they deserve . I welcome any initiative that will see more people get back into work . although I have some concern about the wrong people be target — and the fact that there will not be the job for they to go to , because of the national insurance contribution increase — I will press the Secretary of State on the detail . I find it strange that she can tell we that this will save £ 5 billion , but she can not give we even a ballpark figure — I do not expect it to the penny — for how much she will spend beyond and above the £ 1 billion she have already announce . I know that it will come out through the OBR , but can she not give we a rough idea of how much her change will cost ? the hon . Gentleman may know that Government Members strongly believe in and support the independence of the OBR and the process behind it . we can give overall figure today , but he will have to wait until the OBR assessment be publish at the spring statement for the individual costing , how many people will be affect and by how much . many constituent have contact I because they be afraid of lose their benefit . after 14 year of Tory neglect and chaos and several month of scaremongere , there be real vulnerability and fear in my constituency . will the Secretary of State confirm that we on the Government Benches believe that those who can not work be nevertheless entitle to a decent standard of living ? like she , I believe that good work be good for we ; it be good for mental wellbeing , a sense of worth and economic security , and disabled people be entitle to those . will she write to I and set out in detail the incremental support , include tech support , that disabled people in Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West can expect as a result of these measure , and when they can expect they ? I absolutely commit to do that . in her statement , the Secretary of State refer to right - to - try legislation be bring forward and to de - risk work , but the Treasury ' s NIC rise make employ more expensive and the Employment Rights Bill make it more risky . what assessment have her Department make with other relevant Departments of the impact of recent Government policy on job creation and opportunity for sick and disabled people to try work ? Labour Members believe that good work and employment right make it more likely that people will take work , and that they will keep people in work — that be why we be bring those change forward . we have a lot of employer who want to work with we to get the people they need because they be struggle to fill vacancy . we be overhaul our approach to that , because we want to serve employer to well meet their need . of course , everyone in our country who can work should work , and should receive appropriate support to do so . it be of the utmost importance to many Labour Members that Labour ensure that disabled people who can never work be support and protect to live the good possible life in dignity . can the Secretary of State tell I how an adult who can not work — however much they would have like to — because , for example , they have cerebral palsy , a visual impairment and learn difficulty , and who be on enhanced PIP and have limit capability for work and work - relate activity , will be affect by these change ? what will be the impact on their finance ? I know that my hon . friend care passionately about these issue , and I have speak to she about they many time . I absolutely agree , and we commit that people who will never be able to work because of the severity of their disability or health condition will be protect . in fact , by never go back and reassess those people , I hope that we will make a positive improvement , give they the dignity and respect they need and deserve . culture matter . those who have be victim of the carer ' overpayment scandal describe the culture at the DWP as spirit - crushing , but the culture of the Government matter too . last week , I speak to my constituent Geoff , who live in Haywards Heath and be partially sight . he tell I that he and the partially sighted community have be sick with worry about what be be bring forward today . do the Secretary of State think that the pitch rolling that have go on over the past 10 day be the right way to make these kind of announcement ? I hope that from now on , hon . member will focus on the proposal that we be actually put forward . culture really matter — that be why we launch an independent investigation into the carer ' s allowance overpayment ; we want not just to be tell that we be put thing right but for independent voice to say that . many of our work coach in jobcentre be absolutely wonderful , but I have hear from other hon . member about work coach ring deaf people . we must start change that , look at our training process and put all these thing right so that everyone be treat with the dignity and respect they deserve . in Erewash , there be many disabled and sick people who can never work , but who be force to jump endlessly through hoop for the benefit they need to survive . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s plan to switch off reassessment and end the needless stress that these people must endure . will she elaborate on those plan ? this be something that be personally important to I and the Minister for Social Security and Disability . we have see case in which , unbelievably , people whose disability will never change , or whose health condition will only get progressively bad , be be reassess . while we switch reassessment back on and make they more face - to - face for people on the health top - up , we really want to ensure that there be dignity and respect for those who can and will never work . I would be more than happy to write to my hon . friend with more detail about that proposal in the Green Paper . have the Secretary of State ever be diagnose with depression ? I have — I have be in a situation where just get up in the morning , have a shower and brush your tooth feel like the big fight . do she think that put people who have be diagnose with a mental health condition through more reassessment will make their mental health condition well or bad ? the hon . Lady will forgive I if I do not talk about any health issue I may or may not have have in the past , although she be brave enough to talk about they in this House . People ' s mental health condition affect they in many different way ; there be people with anxiety and depression who say to I that work have actually give they structure and purpose and help they deal with the problem , while other have say that sometimes they just can not get out of bed , let alone out of the house . we need a system that recognise the different and fluctuate nature of these condition and do whatever be right for that person , to get they back to health and — if they can — back to work . I be a manager in the employment service . it have always need reform , whether that be tell people that they have to come back in six week to get help or — under the Tory Government — be tell to move people from employment benefit on to incapacity benefit in order to say that there be more people in employment . how we go about reform it be fundamentally important , and I do not think it should be link to save money — that be rather crass , and it have cause lot of anxiety for my constituent and for people elsewhere . patriotic Millionaires have say that a tax of just 2 % on asset over £ 10 million will bring in £ 22 billion a year . that be a well way to bring money in to help fill the black hole that we have find ourselves in because of the disaster of 14 year of Tory Government . do the Minister agree that aspiration , compassion , care and fairness will be the hallmark of this Labour Government ? aspiration , compassion , care and fairness be absolutely the hallmark of this Government — that be why we be bring forward these reform . as I say early to the House , I do not start from a spreadsheet ; I start from my belief that everybody have a value and a contribution to make , in whatever way , and that we want people to fulfil their potential . that be what these reform be about . give the announce change to the personal independence payment , what assessment have the Secretary of State make of the potential impact on injure service personnel claim the personal independence payment as an interim measure while their compensation claim be process prior to the awarding of the armed force independence payment , and will the armed force independence payment also be within the scope of these change ? I will look into that issue in detail , and will respond to the hon . gentleman as soon as I can . my right hon . friend co - chair the child poverty taskforce . can she tell the House what analysis she have undertake of the impact on child poverty of the reform she be announce today ? will she publish that analysis , and can she assure the House that these reform will not make child poverty bad for any child live in a family where their parent or carer be in receipt of benefit ? my hon . friend raise a very important point . as I say early , we will publish the equality impact analysis and the poverty impact analysis around the time of the spring statement . it be really important that we look at how more people will benefit from be in work and improve their income — that be essential . we will also come forward with our child poverty strategy , because we have a clear manifesto commitment to drive child poverty down . child grow up in poverty could have their life chance damage for year to come , and we be determined to put that right . this whole statement be predicate on save £ 5 billion at the expense of people with disability in our society . anyone who have be through the trauma of try to apply for a personal independence payment know about the intrusive nature of the questioning , and about the great difficulty of obtain that payment and then continue to receive it in future . the Secretary of State ' s statement have cause consternation and dismay to many people around the country — particularly those with disability — who be understandably alarmed that their benefit will go down and that they will live in great poverty as a result . can she say with hand on heart that no disabled person will be bad off after her statement , or will that £ 5 billion be take at the expense of those in our society who already live the most difficult life ? this statement be predicate on stop people be write off — deny opportunity , deny hope and deny a future . it be about make the social security system sustainable for the long term , which be so important to I . when we have 1 , 000 new PIP award every single day , many of those drive by mental health and young people , we have get to look at that . we can not duck this challenge , because I want a social security system that will be there for century to come . rise — Order . I be hope to try to get everybody in , but I will be finish the statement at around 2 . 30 pm . please help each other by keep question and answer short . my constituent will welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment today to protect with dignity those who can not work because they be so severely disabled or because of illness . there be many sick and disabled people who can work with the right support , so can my right hon . friend confirm that those people will get the support they need to get into work to build a well life for they and their family ? yes . member have rightly say that PIP be not a benefit relate to work , but a contribution to the extra cost of live with a disability . actually , 17 % of people on PIP be in work . I want to expand opportunity for disabled people who can work to get into work , because the disability employment gap , which actually fall under the last government , have flatline . we want to sort that out , because we believe that disabled people should have the same right and chance to work , if they can , as everybody else . can the Secretary of State offer some reassurance to Sue from Wareham about her 45 - year - old son , who be permanently disabled through childhood illness ? she tell I that he have great ability and work part - time with support , but every time there be a change of circumstance , he have to prove his permanent disability again . the Secretary of State have confirm that there will be change to reassessment by DWP , but will that also apply across other Departments , include the Department for Transport , for matter include bus pass and blue badge ? those reassessment cause huge mental health issue . the hon . Lady raise an important point . I will look at that and write to she to make sure we address it properly . while I accept that it be perfectly possible for people with severe mental health condition to work with the right support — in Warrington , we already have an employment rate above the Government ' s national target — be there not a risk that these proposal be premature and that we be legislate for the mental health service we might hope to have in the future , rather than where these service be today ? do the Secretary of State accept that the issue be not over - diagnosis , but the broken mental health service we inherit ? I have always believe we should follow the evidence on this . we have a clear commitment to recruit 8 , 500 new mental health worker and to have mental health support in every primary and secondary school to prevent problem from happen . we also need to roll out individual placement and support within the NHS . I have see in my own constituency that it can be life - transforming , but we need to go far and fast to ensure that all people with mental health problem who can work do so . Wales will be hit hard by these cut , with the second - high proportion of disabled people of work age in the UK . strip £ 5 billion from the system will only increase pressure on other service . have the Secretary of State secure the approval of her Labour Welsh Government colleague , as they will be the one who will have to shoulder the cost of these damaging cut ? Welsh Labour want to see more people have the chance and choice to get good job . that be why we have a modern industrial strategy to create good job in every part of the country , why we be build 1 . 5 million new home and why we want to see clean energy support . all those thing will make a huge difference . we do not believe that the status quo be acceptable or inevitable . that be why our plan for change will create more good job in every part of the country . I hope that the hon . Lady and her party will welcome that . I support the measure set out in this statement to get people who can work into work . I have be contact by constituent who be worried , such as my constituent Lisa , who have a son with a severe disability . he will never be able to work and rely on support . can my right hon . friend assure I that people like my constituent , who can not work and will never be able to work , will not be bad off under these proposal ? we absolutely will protect those who can never work . one thing I have not say to the House so far be that we be consult in the Green Paper on whether we should increase the age until which child get DLA from 16 to 18 . that be an important point to give people the reassurance they need and deserve . parity in our welfare benefit be a key feature of our Union . when the last Government introduce their welfare reform , the Northern Ireland Executive see fit to introduce mitigation for which they have to pay by take money off health and education out of the block grant . if the Northern Ireland Executive decide to mitigate these cut on this occasion , can the Secretary of State confirm that that money would again have to come out of need service , such as health and education ? full detail on the impact of these change on the block grant will be available at the spring statement . the last Budget provide the big ever block grant settlement since devolution . I will be work closely with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and the Northern Ireland Executive to make sure we do everything possible to help people in Northern Ireland into work and off benefit , to ensure that they have the same chance and choice as people right across the United Kingdom . Peterborough be a youth unemployment hotspot . I know not many member be leave on the Opposition Benches , but one of the most shameful part of their record have be write off a generation , with one in eight young people not in education , earn or training . there be nothing progressive or good about a Government who write off young people and put they on benefit . I welcome the work that the Secretary of State have announce about employment support service for young people . will she speak more about my passion , which be the Government ' s youth guarantee and how we put into reality youth job for the future ? young people in my hon . friend ' s constituency be much more likely to be unemployed than young people in the rest of the country , and I know his passion for the youth guarantee . we be invest extra support into the youth guarantee in his area , and I look forward to launch that youth guarantee very soon . I of course applaud the intention of get people back to work , but my inbox — like those of everybody else here , I be certain — be full of email from petrified disabled constituent . the recur theme be the absolute disbelief that once again , welfare cut be be impose by none other than a Labour Government . what will the Secretary of State say to my constituent , Jason , who live in our city ? he have be tell by Leicester city council that it will now consider his PIP payment as income and so have increase the council tax he have to pay . how do the Minister expect Jason to find that additional £ 900 ? I be happy for the hon . gentleman to write to I about that constituent so I can look at the issue . three quarter of the people who claim universal credit and disability have go without essential item in the past six month . the £ 5 billion cut be likely to make that bad for they . I have have lot of email from my Liverpool Riverside constituent . as other have ask already this afternoon , will the Minister speak with the Chancellor about look at a wealth tax ? we need a wealth tax and not to be attack the most vulnerable . I know that my hon . friend care passionately about these issue . her constituent will not only benefit from the £ 1 billion investment into employment support , but the first ever above - inflation permanent increase in universal credit , if people be on universal credit and PIP . we have already take action to ensure that those with the broad shoulder take a big burden , include our action on the non - dom tax status and a tax on the profit of utility company . that principle of fairness be vital to we all . I go on the tube twice a week , and the disability seat in the carriage say " not every disability be visible " . bear that in mind , those with severe mental health issue , such as paranoid psychosis , anxiety , depression or post - traumatic stress disorder , already fear phone call from withhold phone number . will the Secretary of State commit to ensure that they will not be impact or hound in the attempt to root out fraudster ? do she accept that those with severe mental health issue may not understand their illness , or be able to explain it or grasp it ? how will these people — my people ; our people — be protect ? I think that everyone ' s situation and condition be individual and personal to they , and that be why it be important that any reassessment be do on an individual case - by - case basis . there will be people with psychosis and schizophrenia who can never work , but I have meet people in Leicester with precisely those condition who have get work through the employment advice provide by the NHS ' s individual placement and support service . that be why , as I have say , the pathway to work employment support be personalise and tailor to individual need . give the size and complexity of the social security system , it be not easy for I to provide an answer now for the people whom the hon . Gentleman have mention . that be why we must have those personal assessment , and I want much more to be do to ensure that they be carry out properly . last night I receive a response from the Minister for Social Security and Disability , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , to a write question that I have ask about the average payment for the daily living component of PIP . it reveal that the average payment be just £ 12 a day . the purpose of the daily live component be to cover the cost of extra help need with everyday task such as washing , eat , use the toilet and get dress , but the Secretary of State ' s proposal to tighten the eligibility criterion could mean that even those who be assess as need help on every criterion may not be entitle to PIP . be it not wrong to balance the book on the back of sick and disabled people in such a way ? I can confirm that we will focus PIP on those with the great need by change the assessment so that people will need to score a minimum of four point to qualify for the daily living component . that will apply to new claimant from November 2026 . reassessment will be conduct on a personal , case - by - case basis , and therefore , while I entirely understand why member raise issue about individual , we can not determine those case from the Dispatch Box . I represent the second most deprived constituency in the United Kingdom , where nearly one in two child be live in poverty , and I worry about the impact that these measure could have on child poverty number . moreover , the number of young people in my constituency who be not in work , education or training be double the national average , but they can not gain access to the mental health support that would enable they to get into work . that be happen throughout Blackpool , but it be also happen across the country . what can the Secretary of State do to turbocharge the health service while also put representative of the voluntary sector , the third sector and the charity sector into jobcentre , so that people can find mental health support immediately rather than wait for we to rebuild the nhs that the Conservatives leave in such a terrible mess ? we be consider put jobcentre into GP surgery and community centre . I believe in a job and career service go to where people be , rather than always expect they to come to we . I think I be right in say that authority in some part of the country , such as the combine authority in Manchester , have commission specific talk therapy for people who be look for work . that be the direction in which we want to move , and I should be more than happy to discuss it with my hon . friend in more detail . hundred of disabled people in my constituency want to work , but they often face absolute poverty pay and feel that they would be well off on benefit . on average , disabled worker be pay £ 2 . 35 an hour , or £ 4 , 300 a year , less than other worker . how will labour ' s commitment in the King ' s Speech to a new equality Bill ensure that disabled worker will finally receive equal pay at work , and can choose a good job over be — order . I call the Secretary of State . I be delighted to tell my hon . friend that today we launch a consultation on equality pay gap reporting , and I hope that that will make a huge difference . if we do indeed believe in the social model of disability describe early by my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) , may I encourage the Secretary of State , and indeed everyone , to find a different language in which to talk about this ? when we describe disabled people as be unable to work , we ignore the fact that most disabled adult be in work , while many of those who be not be desperate to get into work but be hold back by low pay and lack of opportunity . can we look again at access to work to ensure that the large and most profitable employer be bear more of the cost of adequate — order . may I remind member that there be a great many more for I to get in ? I ask they please to help each other , and keep the question and answer short . my hon . friend be right : there be more disabled people in work than ever before , and we need to recognise that and go far . we be launch a consultation on Access to work to ensure that more people be able to secure that vital support , and that it go to the right place at the right time . I agree with the Government that welfare reform be necessary , but many of my constituent be very worried about the removal of support on which they rely . fourteen year of austerity under the Conservatives take its toll on our nation , with public service cut and the cost of live crisis push people to the brink . what be the Government do to address the root cause of people ' s inability to work , rather than just focus on the symptom ? we be focus precisely on the root cause . we be focus on what more we can do to change the world of work , get people back to health and back to work and give they the skill that they need , and on tackle the disincentive in the benefit system . I be not interested in tinker around ; it be too important for people , and life be short . I want to get it right , tackle the root cause , and put the country on a pathway to success . many organisation , include our own nhs , use punitive capability process when score the illness of people who become sick while in work , which cause additional stress to those who need support the most . how will the Government help employer to ensure that their employee be support properly when they experience ill health ? our keep Britain Working review , lead by the former John Lewis boss Sir Charlie Mayfield , be deal with precisely that issue : what more we can do to help employer to give sick and disabled people more opportunity to obtain work and stay in work . the Resolution Foundation have warn that as a result of cut in PIP , 620 , 000 people could lose about £ 675 a month , with the poor family hit the hard . give that 870 , 000 child live in PIP - receive household and 290 , 000 of they be already live below the poverty line , how can the Government justify push more disabled people and child into poverty rather than pursue fair alternative , such as a 2 % wealth tax on asset worth more than £ 10 million , which would raise £ 24 billion — five time as much as the suggest saving from the propose cut ? be " austerity 2 . 0 " really the change that people vote for ? spend on working - age sickness and disability benefit will still rise substantially over the current Parliament . the full assessment of the number affect , and by how much , will be publish alongside the spring statement . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . cut in social security for disabled people under the last government lead to their living in poverty with little or no increase in employment rate . what assessment have be make of the impact of these change on their income , and will the Secretary of State ensure that any reform be compassionate and disabled people have a voice ? many other member have ask that question . we will publish the equality impact and poverty impact analysis alongside the spring statement . I believe that we need to treat people with dignity , respect and compassion , but must also face up to the challenge of a fail system that be currently not sustainable , not for the public finance — although that be relevant — but for the very people who will depend on this in future . that be what we be try to change . I thank my right hon . friend for reassure my constituent with profound disability that they will be protect under these reform . my niece , who herself have autism and have face significant barrier to work , be a health coach in a local jobcentre , where she be help other people with disability , neurodiversity issue and mental illness to find work . however , she be frustrate by her lack of access to fit note . will the Secretary of State ensure that jobcentre staff have the time , information and resource that they need to help people with disability and health problem to find suitable and rewarding job ? as always , my hon . friend have hit the nail on the head . we want to free up our work coach ' time from tick - box benefit administration so that they can spend more time with sick and disabled people who need support , and can refer they to , for instance , mental health or debt advice service . when we do that , more people get into work , and both their finance and their mental health improve . we have already announce that we will free up 1 , 000 work coach ' time to help more than 60 , 000 sick and disabled people , and that be just the start : we want it to be roll out throughout the land . I be one of the 6 % to 8 % of people live with a serious mental illness in employment , despite 80 % of we want to work . I be here despite a mental health system that I have always find unsupportive , and because I go out of my way to forge my own pathway of support and care . although I welcome the Secretary of State ' s offer of a package of support , my plea to she be that she work with her colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care to make sure that those of we who suffer with a severe mental illness have the true support that we need to access employment . my hon . friend be right . one of the thing we learn during the pandemic be that a healthy nation and a healthy economy be two side of the same coin . I believe we need to do much , much more to join up what the DWP do with what the NHS and , crucially , local skill and voluntary organisation do . that be not the way we have work in the past , but that be what we want to change . have work for all his adult life , my dad have a life - alter stroke in 2013 . he be just 55 , and PIP keep he alive for 10 further year . as the person who help to fill in his PIP form , take he to assessment and make the telephone call , I can tell the House that , without a doubt , the system be already incredibly difficult to access . will the reform help speed up the process for PIP assessment and decision , which take far too long under the current process ? yes . we have announce in the Green Paper that , alongside the change for which we will legislate , we will have a review of the PIP assessment process , lead by my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability . we will work with disabled people , the organisation that represent they , and other to sort this out . one of the great tragedy be that it be a miserable system for everybody . I do not want it to be like that — we need to change it — and I really look forward to talk to my hon . friend to get more of his idea . labour believe in the value and dignity that have a job give people , but too many disabled people who want a job be be let down and trap by the current system . organisation such as SWEDA — the Skills Work and Enterprise Development Agency — in West Bromwich help people with disability and long - term condition into employment with tailor , local support . can the Secretary of State confirm that this package of reform will support people into good , fulfil work via local organisation , and that we will protect people with long - term condition who will never be able to work ? yes . the system be clearly break , and I welcome the urgent work to get it fix . what reassurance can the Secretary of State provide to child live in household that receive PIP but be in poverty ? what reassurance can she provide to the one in five people in receipt of universal credit and disability benefit , who be reliant on food bank already ? what reassurance can she give to my constituent , 6 , 000 of whom claim PIP , which they need for dignified life ? have chair Feeding Leicester for year — unfortunately , I have to give it up when I get this job — I know only too well the issue that people face right across my city and my hon . friend ' s constituency . our objective be to get those who can work into good work , because that be the sustainable way to tackle poverty and inequality in this country . we be also committed to develop a bold , cross - Government child poverty strategy , which we hope to publish shortly . be healthy be shape by the world around we , from the home we live in to the air we breathe and the money in our pocket . do the Secretary of State agree that there be a moral case for tackle the social determinant of ill health and the cause of poverty , rather than cut the benefit of the most vulnerable people in our society ? I have work in health , and one of my first job involve tackle health inequality when I work at the King ' s Fund charity . we be look at build not only more home , but more decent home . we want people not just to get job , but to get good job . we be look at raise the income of the poor people with our new fair repayment rate , which give an average of £ 420 a year extra to the 1 . 2 million poor family . there be much more that we can do but , right across Government , our purpose be to tackle poverty and inequality by get more people into good job . that be the labour way . I strongly congratulate the Secretary of State on the £ 1 billion package of employment support . many active labour market policy have be show to have considerable economic impact . historically , it have be difficult for the Office for National Statistics to score the positive impact of active policy , as oppose to the more straightforward impact of budget reduction . will the Secretary of State commit to work cross - departmentally to ensure that we have long - term investment in the health of our nation , which be so fundamental to the wealth of our economy ? yes . I welcome the reform outline today and the commitment to make sure that our most vulnerable disabled people be protect from these change . in Darlington , we know the value of work , but I have come across constituent with learn difficulty who have be out of work for a long time . they have be in work placement and could work , but they be badly bully and have be scar by 14 year of rhetoric about how they be workshy . what reassurance can the Secretary of State give that they will be offer safe and secure work placement ? I be not interested in blame people to grab easy headline ; we have have that for too long . I know that many people with autism and neuro - divergent people have be treat badly , which need to change . if my hon . friend would like to send more case study and example from her constituency , I will look at they to see what we can do . we will try to put thing right . many will see the removal of £ 5 billion from the social security system not as reform , but as the continuation of the fail ideology of Tory austerity , which have already cost thousand of life . I have have hundred of disabled constituent tell I that they be absolutely terrified by what the Government be plan to do . do the Secretary of State really believe that it be fair to balance the book on the back of disabled people and the poor , rather than introduce a wealth tax on the super - rich ? let we be honest : that be not what we be do . I do not accept the status quo — it be miserable for people who can work , and miserable for those who can not . that be what I want to change . I thank the Secretary of State for the tone that she have strike today . we be talk about people ' s life , not figure on a spreadsheet , and I hope to see that reflect in the delivery of these plan . disabled people ' s trust in the system be low follow 14 year of a fail punitive approach by the Conservative party , and speculation in recent day have leave my constituent feel fearful . what assurance can the Secretary of State give that those with the most severe disability — those who be genuinely unable to work — will be no bad off under these plan ? I can absolutely give that commitment . many hon . member have raise the issue of culture , which be about how people feel they have be treat and the headline that they see in the paper . it be really important that we change that . I know that we can not do so overnight , but the entire team in the DWP — our Ministers and official — want to change thing so that we can get people on a pathway to success . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . welfare reform must ensure that incentivise people into work do not produce unintended health consequence , not least by generate fear and uncertainty , as she rightly point out . do she agree that we need to address the health inequity issue that be delay treatment of mental illness , and our underlie public health and inequality issue ? welfare reform and NHS transformation must complement each other , to make sure that no one be leave behind . I absolutely agree that we need to tackle these issue , but there be more and more evidence that good work be good for the mental health of people with anxiety and depression , and for those with serious condition , if support be provide in the right way . I have see it for myself in my constituency , include through the work that the NHS be do . we have to spread that far more widely . we know that help people to stay well and manage long - term condition or disability be almost always cheap in the long term . can the Secretary of State tell I how she will account for the potential wide system cost of change the amount of money that be available to people with disability or long - term condition ? for many year before I be appoint as a shadow DWP Minister , I work in health and social care , and I know that help people to manage their long - term condition be absolutely essential . we must give people power , control and agency over their life , rather than tell they that a doctor or somebody else always know well . I deeply believe in that principle , and I will work closely with my right hon . friend the Health Secretary , because I know he believe that , too . there be much more we can do , but we will definitely make a start . rise — Order . I think I will get everybody in at this rate , thank you . I recently hold a child poverty roundtable in my constituency , and one of the issue raise repeatedly be that many people who want to work find themselves bad off when they lose benefit and find themselves push into hardship . what assurance can my right hon . friend provide for my constituent that under these change they will be well off in work and will no long be penalise for want to improve their life ' s circumstance and those of their family ? my hon . friend raise a really important point , and it would be really good if she talk to my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability , who be review universal credit , as we promise in our manifesto , to tackle poverty and make work pay . we have to make that a reality for everybody in this country , and I be sure that , if she talk to he , he will speak more about what we be do in this regard . last week , my constituent Ellie , who be visually impaired , visit the local jobcentre , but as a full - time student seek part - time work , she be belittle , speak over and tell that she could not get help because she be on PIP , not on UC . she leave feel devastate by that experience . can the Secretary of State reassure I and Ellie that such an experience will become a thing of the past for people like she who be desperately seek work ? that be absolutely my intention . I ask my hon . friend to send I the detail , because I will look into that personally . do my right hon . friend agree that the clue be in the name of our party ? because we believe in dignity in work and enhanced worker ’ right ; dignity and far more support for disabled people and people with health condition seek work , particularly with the right to try ; and dignity and compassion for those unable to work , especially in end reassessment . do she also agree that this Labour Government will get Britain work and get welfare work well , with compassion and support at its heart ? I very much agree with my hon . friend ' s sentiment . I do not pretend that this will change overnight , and I know it be a huge agenda , but we be in politic to make a difference — and a big difference — because , as I have say , life be short , and there be much we need to do . many of we in this place have fight alongside parent of severely disabled people , not least against our broken SEND system . can the Secretary of State reassure those parent , who may be look at the propose change to UC health eligibility for under - 22 and feel deeply dismayed right now ? we be consult on this proposal , and we want to make sure that those severely disabled people who will never work will be protect . however , I also know that there be many young people with special educational need and learn difficulty who , with the right support , can make a contribution , live independently and get work . I be work closely with my right hon . friend the Education Secretary to get this right , because it be really important that we ensure all young people get the support and opportunity they deserve . my right hon . friend will know that the Tory legacy in coastal community such as mine in East Thanet be a broken welfare system and a broken economy . the number of people claim PIP have more than double in my constituency since 2018 , and the statistic on young people claim for mental health condition be particularly heartbreaking . however , two thing can be true at once : too many people be be write off without a path to wellness and work ; and there must be reliable support for those who can not work . can my right hon . friend explain how reduce support for those who struggle to wash and dress themselves will help tackle either of these challenge ? my hon . friend , as always , speak passionately about her constituency and the need to make sure that the support for people who can work be there , but also that we protect those who can not . I would say that every case need to be judge on an individual basis , and we will make sure that that happen . I say to the House , and to you , Madame Deputy Speaker , that I know many people would have want to ask more question and to say more , but my door be always open . we want and need to get this right , and we will have more debate about this , but if any hon . member on either side of the House want to contact I with more question , I and the team will do everything we can to address those openly , honestly and quickly . the final question from the Back Benches will come from Chris Vince . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . I think we all know that the current system be not only break , but unsustainable . I welcome her focus on support the long - term unemployed , and I would point to some good example of the work we be do in my constituency . however , would she agree that we need to support those constituent in Harlow , many with severe disability , who can not work , and end this merry - go - round of constant reassessment ? Madam Deputy Speaker , you be save the good till last , as always , with my hon . friend . we absolutely will protect those with severe disability who can never work . I do not want to see they have to go through deeply worrying reassessment , and we want to put that right . for people in Harlow who can work but have be deny such opportunity , we will fix the broken system , tackle the perverse incentive leave we by the Conservatives , and give people the hope and opportunity that there be well day ahead . just to let member know that about 100 member have ask question on the statement . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . when I ask a question during the statement , the Secretary of State say , " it do not mean that . " I have raise the list on the Government ' s website of the descriptor use to qualify somebody for a certain number of point in relation to the daily living component of PIP . each of the descriptor I mention have two or three point associate with it : " need supervision … or assistance to be able to manage therapy that take … 3 . 5 hour a week . 2 point … need assistance to be able to wash either their hair or body below the waist . 2 point … need assistance to be able to get in or out of a bath … 3 point … need supervision … to be able to manage toilet need . 2 point … need assistance to be able to dress or undress their low body " — need the physical help of another person — also " 2 point . " at the moment , someone with all of those need would qualify for this component of PIP , but under her new rule they will not . how can I give the Secretary of State the opportunity to correct the record ? that be not a point of order , but the hon . Lady have get her point on the record . Freight Crime Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the recording and investigation of freight crime ; and for connected purpose . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Selby ( Keir Mather ) for be present on the Front Bench today . shortly after be elect in July , I become the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on freight and logistic , because almost a fifth of my constituent work in this vital sector and I want to make sure they have a voice in Parliament . the freight and logistic sector have become the backbone of the local economy in North Warwickshire and Bedworth , with business locate across the constituency . since become an MP , I have have the pleasure of visit many of these business to see how they be provide varied opportunity for people in North Warwickshire and Bedworth . I want the logistic sector to be something young people in my constituency be excited to be part of , and that mean we must tackle freight crime so they can feel safe in their job . I be proud that North Warwickshire and Bedworth contribute so much to our national economy by get good and medical supply to the people up and down the country who need they . however , from speak to driver and business across the country , it be clear that one of the big issue face this industry be organise freight crime . with the Road Haulage Association , the National Vehicle Crime Intelligence Service and freight business , we recently launch our appg report on freight crime to provide a framework for how the Government can secure our supply chain . our report highlight a key misconception . too many people think theft from a van or lorry be low - level opportunistic crime ; this be not true . freight crime be commit by organise criminal gang . it be dangerous , and it have cost the UK economy £ 1 billion since 2020 . More action be urgently need . I thank the Home Office and the Department for Transport for their engagement with our campaign . I know they understand the need to tackle this critical issue , and statistic show that the investment they have make in safe parking have pay off , with a reduction in the number of crime at truck stop . I hope that demonstrate to the Government that target action to combat freight crime be produce result . I recently meet the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention , and I welcome her recognition that the challenge of freight crime must be tackle if we be to achieve our mission of economic growth . we need to see more action on freight crime . the situation be urgent . between 2023 and 2024 , the total value of good steal by freight criminal increase by 63 % to more than £ 120 million . I visit Corley service in my constituency to see how it be tackle freight crime . even though it have introduce measure to make driver and park vehicle safe , it be clear that more must be do . I speak to Dave Hands , the manage director of LTS Global Solutions , base in my constituency , about how freight crime have impact his business . the company experience six fuel theft incident last year , each of which significantly impact the business — LTS lose a day of delivery and must replace the steal fuel , pay a call - out fee to repair the vehicle and supply fuel to get it to the near garage . this have to stop . this type of crime can often be violent , with organise gang target driver sleep in lay - bys , as they know that be when they be most vulnerable to theft . in February 2024 , five man threaten a driver in an Essex lay - by with a handgun before steal his cargo , leave the driver terrify . despite an extensive area search , the police do not identify any suspect . similarly , in West Yorkshire , last summer , thief threaten a driver with a hammer and steal £ 250 , 000 - worth of product from the vehicle . once again , no one be catch . freight criminal be also become ever more sophisticated . they target warehouse where they know high - value good will be store and have steal trailer laden with laptop , household appliance and medical supply from transport hub right across the midland . organised freight criminal seize opportunity of good shortage to target cargo that be increase in value , such as baby formula and personal protective equipment during the pandemic . in a particularly cruel case , freight criminal steal more than £ 1 million - worth of government - fund laptop mean for deprived child . luckily , three man be catch and send to prison . as a House , we must understand that organise freight crime feed into other organise crime , where gang have a large underground network of handler who reintroduce large amount of steal cargo for the public to buy . steal cargo have even end up on our supermarket shelf . staggeringly , in the most extreme and dangerous example , freight criminal can even steal from move vehicle . last year , a heavy good vehicle be drive to Hinckley , when the driver realise that the lock have be cut while he be drive and that more than £ 3 million - worth of smartphone , watch and laptop have be steal . this type of operation , where criminal gang drive erratically to target and tailgate a move vehicle , be dangerous to everyone on the road . Police in Warwickshire know that freight crime be become increasingly organise , targeted and dangerous , yet they be struggle to track and tackle it effectively because an organise gang steal thousand of pound - worth of good from a lorry and someone steal a mobile phone from the passenger seat of a car be code in the same way . I be sure that that do not make sense to anyone in this House . that be why this Bill be need . the Bill would create a separate crime code for freight theft from a vehicle . with this specific code and classification , large - scale theft of freight good would be categorise differently , allow police to respond to they as organise and targeted freight theft , rather than they be lump together with domestic car break - in and other car crime . this change would help police to deal with incident more effectively in real time . call handler would be able to ask specific question and follow response and procedure specific to freight crime , allow police to respond to incident fast and more appropriately , stop incident and pattern slip through the crack . it would also mean we could collect meaningful datum . at the moment , the majority of datum on freight crime be put together by the National Vehicle Crime Intelligence Police Service , an organisation that receive no Government funding . police force currently do not have to report their freight crime incident , so there be county for which we have no datum at all on how much freight crime be take place . a separate crime code would mean all police force could track freight crime instance , target freight crime hotspot in their county and create a national strategy with other police force to chase down perpetrator across county . the Bill will improve police effectiveness when deal with organise freight criminal and help we to tackle the problem and come up with a national freight crime strategy . almost 20 % of worker in North Warwickshire and Bedworth work in the freight and logistic sector , and they should not have to feel scared and threaten while do their job . freight and logistic business , which quite literally keep our country run , should not have to shoulder regular loss because of cargo theft ; the police should not be hamstring in tackle serious organise crime because they can not retrieve the datum they need to co - ordinate a national freight strategy ; and ordinary consumer should not be leave to pick up the bill . organised freight crime gang have be leave to grow for too long , but this simple change should help to stop they in their track . it be time we take tough action on freight crime , introduce a new freight crime code and put these thief behind bar , where they belong . question put and agree to . order , that Rachel Taylor , Shaun Davies , Sarah Coombes , David Burton - Sampson , Kirith Entwistle , Catherine Fookes , Christine Jardine , Antonia Bance , Mrs Sureena Brackenridge , Alex Ballinger , Sarah Edwards and Josh Newbury present the Bill . Rachel Taylor accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 20 June , and to be print ( Bill 202 ) . child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill [ 2nd Allocated Day ] further consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : Second Report of the Education Committee , Scrutiny of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , hc732 ] New Clause 17 - Establishment of new school : datum protection " after section 30 of the Education and Inspections Act 2006 insert — " 30a Data protection ( 1 ) none of the provision in or make by virtue of this part ( include Schedule 2 ) be to be read as require or authorise the processing of information which would contravene the data protection legislation ( but in determine whether the processing would do so , take into account the duty impose or the power confer by the provision in question ) . ( 2 ) in this section , " the data protection legislation " and " processing " have the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 of that Act ) . " " — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) this amendment ensure that the provision in or make under Part 2 of the Education and Inspections Act 2006 ( include provision insert into that Part by clause 52 to 55 and Schedule 3 ) do not override the provision in the data protection legislation . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 1 — free school meal : automatic enrolment of eligible child — " in section 512ZB of the Education Act 1996 ( provision of free school lunch and milk ) , omit subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) . " this new clause would remove the requirement in the Education Act 1996 for eligible child to request free school meal of their local authority . new clause 6 — Establishment of national school food monitoring scheme — " ( 1 ) within 12 month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must institute a scheme for monitor school food standard in England ( ' the national school food monitoring scheme ' ) . ( 2 ) the purpose of the national school food monitoring scheme will be to determine whether applicable food standard duty be be meet in the provision of all food in school in England . ( 3 ) the national school food monitoring scheme may from time to time publish report contain such information as it see fit relate to school food standard in England . " this new clause would establish a national school food monitoring scheme , to ensure that the breakfast club provision include within this bill , along with all other school food , follow school food standard . new clause 7 — registration of child for free school meal — " after section 512ZA of the Education Act 1996 ( power to charge for meal etc . ) , insert — " 512zaa registration of child for free school meal the Secretary of State must ensure that free school meal be provide to — ( a ) all child in England who be eligible to receive free school meal ; and ( b ) all child whose household income be less than £ 20 , 000 per year . " " new clause 9 — duty of school governing body regard mental health provision — " ( 1 ) subject to subsection ( 3 ) , the govern body of a maintained or academy school in England have a duty to make arrangement for provision in the school of a dedicated mental health practitioner . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , " education mental health practitioner " mean a person with a graduate - level or postgraduate - level qualification of that name earn through a course commission by NHS England . ( 3 ) where a school have 100 or few pupil , the duty under subsection ( 1 ) may be satisfied through collaborative provision between several school . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must provide , or make arrangement for the provision of , appropriate financial and other support to school governing body for their purpose of facilitate the fulfilling of the duty in subsection ( 1 ) . " new clause 10 — establishment of a National Body for SEND — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , establish a National Body for SEND . ( 2 ) the function of the National Body for SEND will include , but not be limit to — ( a ) national coordination of SEND provision ; ( b ) support the delivery of SEND support for child with very high need ; and ( c ) advise on funding need by local authority for SEND provision . ( 3 ) any mechanism use by the National Body for SEND in advise on funding under subsection ( 2 ) ( c ) should be base on current need and may disregard historic spend . " new clause 11 — National Tutoring Guarantee — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , publish a report outline the step necessary to introduce a National Tutoring Guarantee . ( 2 ) a " National Tutoring Guarantee " mean a statutory requirement on the Secretary of State to ensure access to small group academic tutoring for all disadvantaged child who require academic support . ( 3 ) a report publish under this section must include an assessment of how good to deliver target academic support from qualified tutor to child — ( a ) from low - income background , ( b ) with low prior attainment , ( c ) with additional need , or ( d ) who be young carer . ( 4 ) in prepare a report under this section , the Secretary of State must consult with — ( a ) headteacher , ( b ) teacher , ( c ) school leader , ( d ) parent of child from low - income background , ( e ) child from low - income background , and ( f ) other individual or organisation as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 5 ) a report under this section must be lay before Parliament . ( 6 ) within three month of a report under this section be lay before Parliament , the Secretary of State must take step to implement the recommendation contain in the report . " new clause 12 — VAT zero - rating for certain item of school uniform — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 6 month of the passing of this Act , make provision for certain item of school uniform to be zero - rate for the purpose of vat . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , " certain item of school uniform " mean item of school uniform for pupil up to the age of 16 . " new clause 16 — spiritual , moral , social and cultural education in assembly — " ( 1 ) the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 70 ( requirement relate to collective worship ) — ( a ) for subsection ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) subject to section 71 , each pupil in attendance at — ( a ) a community , foundation or voluntary school in Wales , ( b ) a foundation or voluntary school in England which be designate with a religious character , or ( c ) an Academy in England which be designate with a religious character , must on each school day take part in an act of collective worship . " ( b ) in subsection ( 2 ) , for " community , foundation or voluntary school " , substitute " school to which subsection ( 1 ) apply " . ( 3 ) after section 70 , insert — " 70a Requirements relate to assembly ( 1 ) this section apply to school in England that be — ( a ) maintain school without a religious character ; ( b ) non - maintain special school ; ( c ) City Technology Colleges ; and ( d ) academy without a religious character . ( 2 ) each pupil in attendance at a school to which this section apply must , at least once during the school week , take part in an assembly which be principally direct towards further the spiritual , moral , social and cultural education of the pupil , regardless of religion or belief . ( 3 ) in relation to any school to which this section apply — ( a ) the local authority responsible for education ( in the case of maintain school ) and the govern body must exercise their function with a view to securing , and ( b ) the head teacher must secure , that subsection ( 2 ) be comply with . " " this new clause would remove the requirement for daily collective worship in England for maintain school and academy without a religious character , non - maintain special school , and city technology college , and introduce a requirement for a weekly assembly further spiritual , moral , social and cultural education . new clause 23 — provision of relationship and sex education and PSHE to person who have not attain the age of 18 at further education provider — " ( 1 ) the Children and Social Work Act 2017 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 34 ( education relate to relationship and sex ) — ( a ) at the end of subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) insert " and ( c ) relationship and sex education to be provide to person who have not attain the age of eighteen and who be receive education at post - 16 education institution in England " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) , after " school " insert " and further education provider " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) , after " school " insert " and further education provider " ; ( d ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) , after " school " insert " and further education provider " . ( 3 ) in section 35 ( other personal , social , health and economic education ) — ( a ) at the end of subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) insert " and ( c ) to person who have not attain the age of eighteen and who be receive education at post - 16 education institution in England " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) , after " school " insert " and further education provider " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) , after " school " insert " and further education provider " ; ( d ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) , after " school " insert " and further education provider " . " this new clause would extend the exist provision of relationship and sex education and PSHE under the Children and Social Work Act 2017 to people under the age of 18 who be receive education at post - 16 education institution in England . new clause 24 — Cap on new faith school ' admission — " ( 1 ) any school or academy establish more than two month after the passing of this Act which — ( a ) be of a religious character , and ( b ) be selective on the basis of faith , must adopt admission criterion which provide that , where the school be oversubscribed , at least 50 % of the place available each year be allocate without reference to faith - base criterion . ( 2 ) subsection ( 1 ) do not apply to an academy establish as a result of a maintain school be convert into an academy under section 4 of the Academies Act 2010 , except where the convert maintain school be — ( a ) of a religious character , and ( b ) selective on the basis of faith prior to conversion . " this new clause would require new school with faith - base admission ( other than those which be maintain school that have convert to be academy ) to apply a 50 % cap on faith - base admission place when oversubscribe , in line with the cap for new academy and free school . new clause 31 — Guidance on the admission of summer - bear child with EHC plan — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , publish guidance for local authority and school admission authority on the admission of summer - bear child with education , health and care plan . ( 2 ) Guidance publish under this section must — ( a ) detail the factor which must be take into account when consider a request for a summer bear child with an EHC plan to be place outside of their normal age group ; ( b ) include a presumption that request relate to the placement or admission of summer - bear child with EHC plan should be consider on no less favourable term than request relate to summer - bear child without EHC plan ; and ( c ) outline circumstance when it may , or may not , be appropriate for a child who have be place outside of their normal age group to be move to join their normal age group , with a presumption that such a placement should be no less favourable term than placement relate to summer - bear child without EHC plan ; ( d ) detail how parent may object to the placing of their child with their normal age group , and the process by which such objection will be consider . ( 3 ) in develop guidance under this section , the Secretary of State must consult with — ( a ) group represent the interest of parent ; ( b ) individual and organisation with expertise in support child with special educational need and the parent of such child ; ( c ) other such party as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section , " summer - bear child " mean child bear between 1 April and 31 August . " new clause 32 — collection and publication of datum relate to summer - bear child — " ( 1 ) a local authority must collect and publish datum on — ( a ) the number and proportion of summer - bear child who start school in the local authority ' s area outside of their normal age group — ( i ) with EHC plan , and ( ii ) without EHC plan ( b ) the number and proportion of summer - bear child — ( i ) with EHC plan , and ( ii ) without EHC plan who start school in the local authority ' s area outside of their normal age group and who have be require to join their normal age group ; ( c ) the number and proportion of summer - bear child with EHC plan who start school in the local authority ' s area outside of their normal age group and who have be require to join their normal age group in a — ( i ) special school ; ( ii ) mainstream school . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must annually — ( a ) conduct a statistical analysis of , and ( b ) publish a report on the datum collect by local authority under subsection ( 1 ) . " new clause 34 — provision of free school lunch to all primary school child — " ( 1 ) Section 512ZB of the Education Act 1996 ( provision of free school lunch and milk ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 4A ) ( b ) , after " year 2 , " insert " year 3 , year 4 , year 5 , year 6 " . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 4C ) , after " age of 7 ; " insert — " year 3 " mean a year group in which the majority of child will , in the school year , attain the age of 8 ; " year 4 " mean a year group in which the majority of child will , in the school year , attain the age of 9 ; " year 5 " mean a year group in which the majority of child will , in the school year , attain the age of 10 ; " year 6 " mean a year group in which the majority of child will , in the school year , attain the age of 11 ; " this new clause would extend free school lunch to all primary school age child in state fund school . new clause 38 — power to prescribe pay and condition for teacher — " the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passing of this Act — ( a ) make provision for the power of the govern body of maintain school to set the pay and working condition of school teacher to be make equivalent with the relevant power of academy ; ( b ) provide guidance to all applicable school that — ( i ) pay level give in the School Teachers ' Pay and Conditions Document be to be treat as the minimum pay of relevant teacher ; ( ii ) teacher may be pay above the pay level give in the School Teachers ' Pay and Conditions Document ; ( iii ) they must have regard to the School Teachers ' Pay and Conditions Document but may vary from it . " this new clause would make the pay set out in the School Teachers ' Pay and Conditions Document a floor , and extend freedom over pay and condition to local authority maintain school . new clause 39 — approve free school and university training college in pre - opening — " the Secretary of State must make provision for the opening of all free school and university training college whose application be approve prior to October 2024 . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to proceed with the opening of free school whose opening be pause in October 2024 . new clause 40 — duty for school to report act of violence against staff to the police — " ( 1 ) where an act list in subsection ( 2 ) take place which involve the use or threat of force against a member of a school ' s staff , the school must report the incident to the police . ( 2 ) an act must be report to the police where — ( a ) it be direct towards a member of school staff or their property ; and ( b ) it take place — ( i ) on school property ; or ( ii ) because of the victim ' s status as a member of a school ' s staff . ( 3 ) the provision of this section do not require or imply a duty on the police to take specific action in response to such report . " this new clause would create a duty for all school to report act or threat of violence against their staff to the police . it would not create a requirement for the police to charge the perpetrator . new clause 41 — right to review school curriculum material — " where request by the parent or carer of a child on the school ' s pupil roll , a school must allow such person to view all material use in the teaching of the school curriculum , include those provide by external , third - party , charitable or commercial provider . " this new clause would ensure that parent can view material use in the teaching of the school curriculum . new clause 48 — Review of Impact on Home Educators and Reduction of Unnecessary Reporting — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , conduct a review and report of the impact of clause 26 on home educator in England . ( 2 ) the review must include an assessment of ( a ) the administrative and reporting requirement place on home educator as a result of clause 26 ; ( b ) the administrative and reporting requirement place on local authority as a result of clause 26 ; ( c ) the extent to which such requirement be necessary for safeguard purpose ; and ( d ) any datum or report obligation that can be reduce or remove for home educator where they be not essential for safeguard . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay a report before Parliament set out the finding of the review , include — ( a ) an analysis of the impact of clause 26 on home educator ; ( b ) a clear outline of any datum or report obligation that will no long be require from home educator ; and ( c ) a timeline for the removal of unnecessary reporting obligation , which must not exceed 12 month from the publication of the report . ( 4 ) in conduct the review , the Secretary of State must consult with representative of home educator and relevant stakeholder . ( 5 ) the report must be make publicly available . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that any reporting obligation identify as unnecessary under subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) be remove within the timeframe specify in subsection ( 3 ) ( c ) . " new clause 49 — provision of free meal and activity during school holiday — " ( 1 ) a local authority must — ( a ) provide ; or ( b ) coordinate the provision of programme which provide , free meal and activity to relevant child during school holiday . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , " relevant child " mean child in receipt of free school meal . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation make by statutory instrument — ( a ) specify minimum standard for meal and activity during school holiday ; ( b ) specify criterion that organisation involve in the delivery of meal and activity during school holiday must meet . " this new clause would place a duty on local authority to provide or coordinate free meal and activity for child eligible for free school meal during school holiday . new clause 51 — flexibility to take into account local circumstance when follow the National Curriculum — " in section 87 of the Education Act 2002 ( establishment of the National Curriculum for England by order ) , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) in any revision to the National Curriculum for England , the Secretary of State must ensure that the National Curriculum shall consist of — ( a ) a core framework ; and ( b ) subject or area of learn outside the core framework that allow flexibility for each school to take account of their specific circumstance . " " this new clause would clarify that , when revise , the National Curriculum for England will provide a core framework as well as flexibility for school to take account of their own specific circumstance . new clause 52 — parliamentary approval of revision of the National Curriculum — " in section 87 of the Education Act 2002 ( establishment of the National Curriculum for England by order ) , after subsection ( 3 ) insert — " ( 3A ) an order make under this section revise the National Curriculum for England shall be subject to the affirmative procedure . " " this new clause would make revision to the National Curriculum subject to parliamentary approval by the affirmative procedure . new clause 53 — Arrangements for national examination for child not in school — " after section 436 g of the Education Act 1996 , as insert by section 25 of this Act , insert — " 436GA Arrangements for national examination for child not in school where a child be eligible to be register by the authority under section 436B , the authority must — ( a ) provide for the child to be able to sit any relevant national examination ; and ( b ) provide financial assistance to enable the child to sit any relevant national examination ; where request by the parent or carer of the child . " " new clause 54 — Review of Free School Meal eligibility and Pupil Premium registration — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , conduct a review of — ( a ) the number of child in England who be eligible for free school meal but be not claim they , ( b ) the number of child who be eligible for free school meal but be not register for the purpose of pupil premium funding , ( c ) the number of additional child who would be eligible for free school meal if the income threshold have be uprate in line with inflation since 2018 , and ( d ) the number of additional child who would be eligible for free school meal if the income threshold be set at £ 20 , 000 per annum after tax . ( 2 ) a review under subsection ( 1 ) must include an assessment of — ( a ) barrier prevent eligible child from claim free school meal ; ( b ) disparity in take - up rate across different region and demographic ; and ( c ) the financial and educational impact of under - registration on school and local authority . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay a report before Parliament set out the finding of the review , include any recommendation for improve registration for and take - up of free school meal and pupil premium funding . ( 4 ) the review and report require under this section must be repeat annually . " amendment 219 , in clause 22 , page 41 , line 23 , at end insert — " and for all pupil attend special school " . this amendment would require the delivery of school breakfast provision to all pupil in special school , regardless of their age . amendment 2 , page 41 , line 23 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the appropriate authority must , in secure breakfast club provision , make provision for the need of qualify child list on the school ' s Special Educational Needs and Disabilities Register . " this amendment would require the provider of breakfast club to make particular provision for the need of child on school ' Special Educational Needs and Disabilities Registers . amendment 220 , page 42 , line 23 , at end insert — " " special school " have the meaning set out in section 337 of the Education Act 1996 . " this amendment define special school and be consequential on amendment 219 . amendment 214 , page 43 , line 11 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) before make an application under subsection ( 1 ) , the appropriate authority of a relevant school must consider whether the duty might be meet by other form of breakfast provision include — ( a ) classroom - base provision , or ( b ) takeaway provision , either at school or at a proximate site . " this amendment would require school to consider other model of breakfast provision before seek an exemption from the duty to provide breakfast club . amendment 215 , page 43 , line 21 , at end insert — " and if the condition in subsection ( 4A ) be meet . ( 4A ) the condition in this subsection be that the Secretary of State be satisfied that the appropriate authority of a relevant school have fully consider other form of breakfast provision in accordance with subsection ( 2A ) . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to be satisfied that a school have consider other model of breakfast provision before grant an exemption from the duty to provide breakfast club . amendment 217 , page 43 , line 29 , at end insert — " 551CA Promotion of supplementary model of provision the Secretary of State must seek to promote and support the development of supplementary model of provision where appropriate , include ( a ) classroom base provision . ( b ) takeaway provision , and ( c ) nurture group service . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to promote supplementary model of provision . amendment 218 , page 43 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( d ) matter arise from the Secretary of State ' s duty under section 551CA . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to develop guidance in connection with the duty to promote supplementary model of provision . amendment 216 , page 43 , line 38 , leave out " have regard to " and insert " comply with " . this amendment would require school to comply with guidance under section 551D . amendment 212 , page 44 , line 5 , at end insert — " 551E Publication of datum the Secretary of State must acquire and regularly publish datum on breakfast club provision in school , include datum on — ( a ) the characteristic of those receive breakfast in school , include their eligibility for free school meal ; ( b ) uptake level ; ( c ) satisfaction level amongst pupil and parent ; and ( d ) any assessment of the impact of provision on attendance , behaviour , health and wellbeing . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to acquire and regularly publish datum on breakfast club provision in school . Amendment 213 , page 44 , line 5 , at end insert — " 551E advice and support ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must provide to any school to which the duty under section 551B apply advice and support service when request by the appropriate authority of the school . ( 2 ) service provide by the Secretary of State in accordance with subsection ( 1 ) should include advice and support from individual with specialist knowledge of the delivery of school breakfast provision . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to make available to school advice and support service deliver by people with specialist knowledge of the delivery of school breakfast provision . government amendment 132 and 133 . amendment 1 , in clause 24 , page 44 , leave out line 22 to 29 and insert — " ( 1 ) the appropriate authority of a relevant school may not require a pupil at the school to have to buy brand item of school uniform for use during a school year which cost more in total to purchase than a specified monetary amount , to be review annually . ( 1A ) the Secretary of State may by regulation specify the monetary amount that may apply to — ( a ) a primary pupil ; and ( b ) a secondary pupil . " Amendment 191 , page 45 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) where the appropriate authority of a relevant school provide second hand item which — ( a ) comply with the school ' s uniform requirement , ( b ) be in an acceptable condition , and ( c ) can be purchase for significantly less than the cost of buy the item , the appropriate authority may require a pupil to have more than three brand item of uniform . ( 2B ) where the appropriate authority provide new item which — ( a ) comply with the school ' s uniform requirement , ( b ) be new , and ( c ) can be purchase for significantly less than the cost of buy the item non - brand , the appropriate authority may require a pupil to have more than three brand item of uniform . " this amendment would allow school to require more than three brand item of uniform if they be make they available , whether new or second hand , at a low cost than buy non - brand item . amendment 190 , page 45 , line 15 , after " school " insert " except item of kit require when represent the school in sporting activity " . this amendment would exclude item of PE kit require when represent the school in sporting activity from the limit on brand item of school uniform . government amendment 134 and 135 . amendment 200 , page 47 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 8a ) where a local authority refuse consent in respect of a child who meet the criterion for Condition A , the local authority must provide the parent or carer of the relevant child with a statement of reason for the decision . ( 8b ) a statement of reason provide under subsection ( 8a ) must include an assessment of the cost and benefit to the child . " this amendment would require a local authority to submit a statement of reason when they do not agree for a child who meet Condition A to be home educate . government amendment 20 . amendment 202 , in clause 25 , page 46 , line 22 , leave out " condition a " . amendment 201 , page 46 , leave out line 23 to 28 . amendment 224 , page 46 , line 23 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . government amendment 21 to 24 . amendment 22 , in clause 25 , page 46 , line 25 , leave out " 337 ( 1 ) " and insert " 337 " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 173 , page 46 , line 32 , after " action " insert — " , or have previously take action " . this amendment would widen the definition of " relevant child " to include child in relation to whom a local authority have previously take action under section 47 of the Children Act 1989 to safeguard and promote their welfare . amendment 192 , page 46 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( c ) provide service to the child or their family under section 17 of the Children Act 1989 , or ( d ) a local authority which have ever provide service to the child or their family under section 47 of the Children Act 1989 . " this amendment would ensure local authority have to consent to withdraw child from school if there be a child protection plan in place or if a child be a ' child in need ' , or if there have ever be a child protection plan in place , in relation to the relevant child or their family . amendment 4 , page 47 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) for the purpose of subsection ( 6 ) , " suitable arrangement " in relation to the education of the child otherwise than at school mean arrangement appropriate to the age , ability and aptitude of the child and the existence of any special educational need . " this amendment would clarify the meaning of suitable arrangement for the education of a child outside of school , which the local authority must consider when decide whether to grant consent for withdrawal from school . government amendment 25 to 31 , 136 to 138 , 32 , 139 , 33 and 140 . amendment 5 , in clause 26 , page 49 , line 40 , leave out " each " and insert " the " . this amendment would remove the obligation on parent to provide information on the second parent . amendment 6 , page 49 , line 41 , leave out " each " and insert " any " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 5 . amendment 193 , page 50 , leave out line 1 and 2 . this amendment would remove a requirement for the register of child not in school to include detail of how much time a child spend be educate by parent . amendment 7 , page 50 , line 2 , leave out " each parent of the child " and insert " a parent " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 5 . amendment 194 , page 50 , line 4 , after " parent " insert — " , in respect of each individual or organisation which provide such education for more than six hour a week " . this amendment would ensure that information relate to short activity such as those operate by museum , library , company and charity , as well as individual private tutoring activity , would only need to be record on the register of child not in school if they be provide for more than six hour a week . amendment 175 , page 50 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the requirement to provide information under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) do not apply where a safeguard concern in respect of either parent have be identify . " Amendment 195 , page 50 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the requirement of subsection ( 1 ) ( e ) do not apply to provision provide on weekend or during school holiday . " government amendment 34 to 39 . amendment 196 , in clause 26 , page 51 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the Secretary of State may only require further information about child to be include on the register by introduce regulation subject to the affirmative procedure . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to introduce regulation , subject to agreement in Parliament , when seek to require additional information to be include in the register of child not in school . government amendment 40 to 45 . Amendment 197 , in clause 26 , page 53 , line 14 , after " 436B ) " insert — " but do not include any person or provider that be provide out - of - school education to home - educate child on weekend or during school holiday . " this amendment would mean that provider of out - of - school education would not be require to provide information to local authority in respect of education they provide on weekend or during school holiday to home - school child . amendment 198 , page 53 , line 21 , after " way " insert — " , but may not refer to an amount of time that be less than or equal to six hour a week . " this amendment would mean that provider of out - of - school education would not be require to provide information to local authority where they provide education for few than six hour a week . amendment 221 , page 53 , line 21 , at end insert — " , but may not refer to an amount of time that be less than or equal to six hour a week . " government amendment 46 to 59 . amendment 199 , in clause 26 , page 55 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 9 ) the Secretary of State shall publish annually the GCSE result of child list on the register . ( 10 ) the Secretary of State shall ensure that the GCSE result of child on the register be include for each set of outcome datum publish by the Government . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to record outcome datum for child on the register as a subsection of each set of performance datum publish by the Department for Education . government amendment 60 to 67 . amendment 8 , in clause 27 , page 58 , leave out line 22 to 24 . this amendment , along with Amendments 9 , 10 , 11 and 12 , would mean that preliminary notice would not be serve on a child ' s parent for not provide certain information . government amendment 68 . amendment 9 , in clause 27 , page 58 , line 27 , leave out " , C or D " . this amendment be relate to Amendment 8 . amendment 13 , page 58 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) for the purpose of subsection ( 4 ) , " suitable education " , in relation to a child , mean education appropriate to the age , ability and aptitude of the child and the existence of any special educational need . " this amendment would clarify the meaning of suitable education which the local authority must consider when serve a preliminary notice for a school attendance order . amendment 10 , page 59 , leave out line 9 to 22 . this amendment be relate to Amendment 8 . amendment 11 , page 59 , line 24 , leave out " to d " and insert " or B " . this amendment be relate to Amendment 8 . government amendment 69 . amendment 12 , page 59 , line 41 , leave out " , C or D " . this amendment be relate to Amendment 8 . government amendment 141 . amendment 14 , in clause 27 , page 60 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) ( i ) , " suitable education " , in relation to a child , mean education appropriate to the age , ability and aptitude of the child and the existence of any special educational need . " this amendment would clarify the meaning of suitable education which the local authority must consider when serve a school attendance order . amendment 15 , page 60 , line 8 , leave out from begin to end of line 9 and insert — " may consider — ( i ) any of the setting outside the home where the child be be educate , and ( ii ) where the child live " . this amendment would give local authority the discretion to consider setting where a child be educate when determine whether a school attendance order should be serve . amendment 16 , page 60 , line 10 , leave out from " consider " to " so " and insert — " whether the child be be educate in a way which be appropriate to their age , ability , aptitude and any special educational need they may have " . this amendment would require the authority to have regard to section 7 of the Education Act 1996 in respect of parent ' duty towards their child ' s education . amendment 17 , page 60 , line 15 , leave out from " visit " to end of line 16 and insert " meet the child " . this amendment would remove the requirement for the child to be see in the home . amendment 18 , page 60 , line 17 , after " refuse " insert " without reasonable ground " . this amendment , along with Amendment 19 , would , where a request to meet a child have be refuse by a parent without reasonable ground , enable an authority to consider that to be a relevant factor when consider whether to make a school attendance order . amendment 19 , page 60 , line 18 , leave out " must " and insert " may " . government amendment 70 to 78 , 142 to 144 , 79 to 81 , 145 to 148 , 82 , 149 , 83 to 89 , 150 , 90 , 151 to 153 , 91 and 92 , and 154 and 155 . amendment 203 , in clause 32 , page 72 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( 1b ) power under subsection ( 1 ) may not be exercise in relation to an academy . " this amendment specify that the Secretary of State should rely on the provision in Funding Agreements as regard to academy . government amendment 156 to 158 . amendment 204 , in clause 34 , page 87 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 2D ) the Secretary of State must issue guidance for relevant institution on how subsection ( 2 ) ( g ) be to be understand . " this amendment to allow independent school not to have to notify the Secretary of State about change of use for building . government amendment 159 to 167 . Amendment 205 , page 99 , line 33 , leave out clause 41 . amendment 222 , in clause 41 , page 99 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) in section 133 ( requirement to be qualified ) , after subsection ( 5 ) insert — " ( 5A ) regulation make by the Secretary of State under this section must have regard to — ( a ) the availability of qualified teacher in each school subject , and ( b ) the necessity or desirability of specific sectoral expertise for teacher in each school subject " " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to take account of the availability of qualified teacher in each subject , and the desirability of specific sectoral expertise when make regulation under clause 40 . amendment 206 , page 100 , line 6 , leave out clause 42 . Amendment 207 , page 103 , line 1 , leave out clause 44 . amendment 208 , in clause 44 , page 103 , line 9 , leave out from " direction " to the end of line 11 and insert — " as be necessary to secure compliance with statutory duty , the requirement of the Funding Agreement , or charity law . " this amendment would limit the Secretary of State ' s power of direction should an Academy breach , or act unreasonably in respect of , the performance of a relevant duty . government amendment 168 . amendment 209 , page 103 , line 36 , leave out clause 45 . amendment 225 , in clause 45 , page 104 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( c ) after subsection ( 1A ) insert — " ( 1b ) before decide whether to issue an Academy order in respect of a maintain school , the Secretary of State must issue an invitation for expression of interest for suitable sponsor . ( 1C ) the Secretary of State must make an assessment of whether or not to issue an Academy order base on the establish track record of party who respond to the invitation issue under subsection ( 1b ) with an expression of interest in raise school standard . " " Amendment 223 , page 104 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) before the amendment make by this section come into force , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report detail — ( a ) the mechanism , include Academy Orders , by which improvement of school standard can be achieve , and ( b ) guidance on the appropriate usage of these mechanism . " amendment 210 , page 107 , line 32 , leave out clause 51 . amendment 211 , page 109 , line 5 , leave out clause 52 . government amendment 169 , 170 and 93 . amendment 3 , in clause 60 , page 113 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) section [ Abolition of common law defence of reasonable punishment ] come into force at the end of the period of twelve month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . " this amendment be consequential on Abolition of common law defence of reasonable punishment . government amendment 94 to 110 . new clause 2 — Review of the Act — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must from time to time — ( a ) carry out a review of the impact of the provision of this Act ; and ( b ) publish a report set out the conclusion of the review . ( 2 ) a first report under subsection ( 1 ) must be publish within 12 month of the passing of this Act , with subsequent report publish at interval not exceed 5 year . ( 3 ) a report publish under this section must , in particular — ( a ) set out the objective intend to be achieve by the provision of this Act ; ( b ) assess the extent to which those objective be achieve ; and ( c ) assess whether those objective remain appropriate . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to conduct regular review of the impact of this Act and publish report . I start by thank hon . member in all part of the House for their valuable contribution to the debate so far . the Bill be for child — the clue be in the name . it be for their safety , their education and their future that we bring it forward . this government be on a mission to break down barrier to opportunity for each and every child , and the Bill be a significant step on that path . I welcome the debate that the Bill have spark . after a decade in which education be leave on the sideline , Labour be once again bring it to the fore , and to the centre of national life — the place it always occupy under a Labour Government . education be at the heart of how we ensure opportunity for the next generation . on the Minister ' s point about the last 10 , 12 or even 14 year , would she join I in acknowledge that the school in Walsall borough — a very diverse borough , with area of real deprivation — outperform national figure for the first time at the end of last year , with 91 % of Walsall school be grade good or well ? that figure have steadily increase under not just a Conservative Government , but a fantastic Conservative - lead council . I will always share in the celebration of school that be do well , and the right hon . Lady be absolutely right to celebrate the school in her area . I do question , however , the shameless pride we sometimes see in the record of her government ; when they leave office , England ' s school be get bad , standard in reading , math and science be down , roof be crumble , child be struggle , and a generation of child be absent from school . we be determined to tackle those challenge head - on . the education that we provide for our child be not just for their future , but for all of our future . it shape society today and the society that we want for tomorrow . it be good of the Minister , for whom I have a great deal of respect , to give way . as I know she to be an honest person , will she at least share with the House the fact that school in England be well today than they be in 2010 ? pick some tiny subset of time to make out that school be deprive be not a fair assessment . school be demonstrably well in England today than they be in 2010 . please , Minister , at least acknowledge that . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his kind word and his assumption of my honesty . the fact be that one in three child start school be not school ready . More than a third of child leave primary school without a firm foundation in reading , writing and math . the disadvantage gap be widen . I will come on to what we want to achieve as a Government , but we be not satisfied , as Conservative Members appear to be , with leave some of our child without the start in life that they deserve . we want the good for all our child , and that be what our change will achieve . will the Minister give way ? I have give way to the right hon . member . I will do so again later . it be essential that every child and family have certainty that they can access a good local school — a school that will set high expectation and standard for all our child , enable they to achieve and thrive . we be bring forward legislation to achieve our reform , but there be reform that we can make for which no legislation be require . we be design a school system that support and challenge all school to deliver for our child . we want a rich and broad curriculum , deliver by expertly train teacher , who have a good pay and condition offer that attract and retain the staff that our child need . in that spirit , will the Minister look at my new clause 30 , which call on the Government to review the effectiveness and value of outdoor education and learn for young people in both primary and secondary school ? we have a mental ill health pandemic in this country and be try to put that right . will she acknowledge that build young people ' s resilience through outdoor education be good not just for deal with that , but for build young people ' s ability to rely on other and themselves ? that help they in situation in which they be not comfortable , and when they go back to the classroom , they be more willing to learn . do she see this as a moment in which to invest in outdoor education , in every part of the country ? the hon . Gentleman be incredibly committed to that cause — understandably so , as he come from a part of the country that boast incredible outdoor scenery , and activity that many of we , I be sure , have take part in . he be right to want that for all our child . that form part of the change that we be introduce today , which will unlock opportunity for all child up and down the country . we want to create a floor , but no ceiling , for what school can offer , and to enable healthy competition and innovation beyond a core set of framework and standard , so that we can improve all school , and give they the freedom and ability to deliver the enrichment programme for which he so rightly advocate . we want high and rise standard for all child . do the Minister not understand that freedom and flexibility can come from allow a school flexibility over its curriculum ? try as the opposition might to make their straw man argument , this Labour Government will demand high and rise standard for all our child . recent poll of the profession show that , despite all the scaremongere , trust chief executive officer agree that there be nothing to fear from our sensible , pragmatic and common - sense measure , which will drive standard up in every school . academy have grow from a government - back insurgency in our school , and now make up well over 50 % of our school system . that be not about to change . the shadow Minister will be pleased to hear that conversion to academy status be progress fast under Labour Ministers than at any time since she join this House , but it be right to look forward and consider how we will build a system fit for the next 20 year . the Bill be a step on that path . it recognise , in the word of one multi - academy trust leader , that parent deserve clarity and confidence in the standard that their child ' s school uphold , and that be what this Government will secure . the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , lead yesterday ' s debate on part 1 of the Bill . I will use my opening remark to speak to the Government ' s amendment to part 2 and 3 . member comment yesterday on the number of amendment , but the number of substantive amendment be small , and I shall focus on they today . many member have a great interest in city technology college and city college for the technology of the art , and they have raise with I the excellent practice support by those institution . the Government amendment ensure that these school can be name on school admission order , and make it clear that family with child attend those school will benefit from other measure in the Bill , such as those tackle the cost of school uniform . just as we be commit to work with all our school , so too be this Government determine to work with the devolve government to deliver high standard of education and care in all part of the UK . the majority of today ' s amendment concern the extension of the " child not in school " provision to Wales . the Minister speak yesterday of our pride in work with the Welsh Government . labour government in both Cardiff and London will deliver our share ambition for a society where all child receive high - quality education , wherever they grow up . we will build a Britain where child come first . these 91 amendment will extend all the " child not in school " measure to Wales . there be a legislative consent motion on this change , on which we be work very closely with the Welsh Government . amendment 140 will include the scottish definition of school in the definition of " relevant school " for the " child not in school " register clause . this amendment ensure that only those child who be intend to be capture by " child not in school " register be eligible for registration . without the amendment , a child who live in England , but who attend school full time in Scotland , would be require to be register on their english local authority ' s " child not in school " register , despite be in school full time . the previous Government say that there be no space in their king ' s Speech to ensure our child ' s safety and education , but for this Labour Government , our child be a priority across the whole of the United Kingdom . amendment 189 and 170 will ensure that the amendment make on corporate parenting extend to the whole of the United Kingdom . education be an essential protective factor , which can shield our most vulnerable child from harm . the " child not in school " measure include the new requirement for parent of child subject to child protection plan or inquiry to seek local authority consent . however , not every child subject to these inquire will be at risk indefinitely , so it would not be appropriate or proportionate for those home - educate child who be not at risk and who be receive suitable education to be place in a school if it be not their parent ' preference . this government will respect parent ' right to opt for home education , while keep child safe from harm and secure their right to education . amendment 141 to 148 will ensure that this intention be reflect through the school attendance order measure in the Bill . will the Minister reassure home - educate parent that the requirement in the Bill will not be overly onerous ? for instance , there be a requirement to record the time that each parent spend educate their child . be that 24 hour a day , seven day a week , 365 day a year ? how exactly would that work ? can she give we some reassurance that this measure can be make manageable and sensible , and will not be disproportionate ? parent who be do the right thing — home - educate their child and provide a suitable education in a safe environment — have nothing to be concern about in relation to these measure . they be intend to ensure that no child fall through the crack , and that be what we be deliver . I be sure that the Minister intend to ensure that this do not happen , but would someone have to record all the hour and place in a week ? I do not know how much the Minister know about home education , but child be educate in all sort of place . she have an opportunity at the Dispatch Box to say that she will come forward with regulation to ensure that they do not have to write down every time that they stop at an ice cream shop for some education about the vanilla flavour . the amendment that I be address relate particularly to information sharing , which clearly the right hon . Gentleman have concern about . member on both side of the House will be all too aware of the succession of tragedy that we have see when child have fall between the crack in service that should be there to support they . the change in the Bill be a reflection of this Government ' s determination to bring that era of state failure to a close . new clause 17 relate to the measure on open new school . part 2 of the Education and Inspections Act 2006 , which the Bill be amend , include a number of relevant duty and power where personal datum might be process — for example , where a proposal for a new school include detail of the relevant experience of the individual proposer . it make clear that these power and duty to give or publish information do not give anyone the right to give or publish personal datum in a way that would breach data protection legislation . it apply a data protection override to the whole of part 2 and schedule 2 to the 2006 Act to cover all the information - relate power and duty in relation to opening , closing and altering school . amendment 166 and 167 will ensure that restriction on the sharing of datum , obligation of confidence and other restriction do not prevent the sharing of information where it be do to protect the welfare of child at register independent educational institution or in accommodation provide by school or college . they empower Ofsted to disclose information to other inspectorate of independent educational institution or of accommodation in school or college , to enable their inspection and ensure high - quality service for our child . we anticipate that information to be share for those purpose may include that which be give in confidence — for instance , concern share with Ofsted by whistleblower . however , it be essential that information sharing that would help to protect a child ' s wellbee be not hamper . this imperative should override concern about break confidence . amendment 90 and 151 be essential because of the Bill ' s new power for local authority to share datum from their " child not in school " register with the agency list in section 11 of the Children Act 2004 and with Ofsted , in line with well - establish practice , and to share information to protect and promote the wellbeing of child . the amendment will ensure that local authority can have confidence that they be act in the child ' s good interest when do so . there be well - establish process and exist expectation on these agency to share information to protect and promote the wellbeing of child . without these amendment , local authority and these agency may be concern that they will be restrict in the information that they can share or receive from the " not in school " register . this information be relevant to help local authority undertake safeguarding , welfare and education relate to child , so it be crucial that it can be share when appropriate . these amendment serve to strengthen the Bill and ensure that it work as intend to keep child safe , to secure their education and to ensure that each and every family can access a brilliant local school , which be the cornerstone of opportunity for every child . I thank right hon . and hon . member again for their scrutiny and challenge to the Bill so far . I look forward to listen to the debate , because there be no subject on which the House feel so passionately as the future of our child , and the step that we must take to ensure thatsb each and every one of they can achieve and thrive . I call the shadow Minister . the Bill do not set out any kind of clear plan or vision for our school . it do not address the big challenge that need address . it be silent on discipline and behaviour — one of the big issue . it come after the government scrap simple ofsted judgment and will be follow by move to dumb down the curriculum and low standard far . the Secretary of State have no positive vision . she have axe programme for advanced math , physics , Latin and computing because she think that they be elitist . she have axe behaviour hub with no replacement , even though school that go through the scheme be twice as likely to be good or outstanding . yet , somehow , she be able to find £ 90 million for advertising . the Bill be the bad of all . we have table numerous amendment to it . it take a wreck ball to 40 year of cross - party reform of England ' s school . those reform work . there be much more to do , but England have rise up the international league table even as Labour - run Wales have slump down . under successive government of all colour , England ' s school have be improve by the magic formula of freedom plus accountability . the Bill attack both part of that formula . on the one hand , it strip academy school of freedom over recruitment and curriculum and reimpose incredible level of micromanagement , take away academy freedom now enjoy by 82 % of secondary school . on the other hand , it strike at accountability and parental choice , end the automatic transfer of fail school to new management , reverse the reform of the late 1980 , which allow good school to expand without permission from their local authority — a reform that usher in parental choice . let I unpack this . first , the Bill take away academy school ' freedom over the curriculum . we have table amendment to that . as Sir Dan Moynihan , who lead the incredibly successful Harris school , explain : " we have take over fail school in very disadvantaged place in London , and we have find youngster in the low year of secondary school unable to read and write . we vary the curriculum in the short term and narrow the number of subject in key stage 3 in order to maximise the amount of time give for literacy and numeracy , because the child be not able to access the other subject … why take away the flexibility to do what be need locally ? " – – [ Official Report , Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Public Bill Committee , 21 January 2025 ; c . 71 , Q154 . ] likewise , Luke sparke from Dixons argue : " we … need the ability to enact the curriculum in a responsive and flexible way at a local level … there need to be a consistency without stifle innovation . " – – [ Official Report , Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Public Bill Committee , 21 January 2025 ; c . 79 , q167 . ] Katharine Birbalsingh , the head of Michaela school , which have be top in the country three year in a row , write to the Secretary of State : " do you have any idea of the work require from teacher and school leader to change their curriculum ? you will force head to divert precious resource from help struggle family to fulfil a bureaucratic whim come from Whitehall . why be you change thing ? what be the problem you be try to solve ? " like I , my hon . friend find these proposal tragic because of the removal of the curriculum freedom that have allow school such as Michaela and Petchey and other all over the country to tailor their curriculum specifically to reach disadvantaged pupil so that they can engage well with their learning and have an achievement that previously they do not have . that door be be close . I hope that Government Members reflect on this and seek a change of policy , if not in this House , then at least in the House of Lords . my right hon . friend be completely correct . some Government Members have reflect on this : the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) say that the proposal to make it compulsory for academy to teach the national curriculum be of particular concern to she , and she be right . minister have never explain what they be try to solve with this change , but the union like it , so into the Bill it go . we have table further amendment on qualified teacher status . the Government be get rid of academy freedom over recruitment and the freedom to employ non - QTS teacher . Sir Martyn Oliver from Ofsted give we a good example of how these freedom be use . he say : " in the past , I have bring in professional sportspeople to teach alongside PE teacher , and they have run session . because I be in Wakefield , it be rugby league : I have rugby league professional work with about a quarter of the school in Wakefield at one point . . " – – [ Official Report , Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Public Bill Committee , 21 January 2025 ; c . 49 , q108 . ] brilliant . the Government ' s own impact assessment to the Bill say of this change : " some school may struggle to find the teacher that they need . " Rebecca Leek from the Suffolk Association of Headteachers give a good example of how this freedom be currently use . she say that she urgently need an early year lead , and be able to take on someone who have run an outstanding nursery , even though they do not have QTS and nor do they plan to get it . but in future , she would not be able to do that . former headteacher David Thomas tell we in Committee that this freedom allow they to recruit people who may be at the end of their career , who have a huge amount of experience that they want to give back to the community . they do not want to go through the bureaucracy , and if we put up barrier , they will not end up in the state sector . minister have not produce a single shred of evidence that teacher without QTS be of low quality , or for why they can not be a good supplement to QTS teacher . minister have never explain why they , sit in Whitehall , think that they be in a well position to judge who to employ than headteacher on the frontline . minister claim that be vital , but a footnote at the bottom of page 24 of the impact assessment reveal it would , in fact , not be apply to lot of different type of school , include 14 to 19 academy , 16 to 19 academy , university technical college , studio school , further education college and non - maintain school early year setting . it be supposedly vital but be not be apply to load of different type of school . yet Ministers be impose it on load of other school . as the former head of Ofsted point out this week , take that flexibility out of the system feel like a retrograde step , and she be right . under the Bill , Whitehall micromanagement be back , too . clause 44 allow the Secretary of State to direct academy school to do pretty much anything . the Confederation of School Trusts be really worried about that and have suggest a way to bring such unlimited power under some limit . they say : " we do have concern about the power to direct … it be too broad and it be too wide . we would like to work with Government to restrict it to create some great limit . those limit should be around statutory duty … statutory guidance , the provision in the funding agreement " . – – [ Official Report , Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Public Bill Committee , 21 January 2025 ; c . 81 , Q169 . ] yet Ministers vote down our amendment to put that suggestion from school into effect . likewise , as we discover in Committee , clause 34 ( 5 ) ( 2 ) will require academy school to get permission from the Secretary of State to make any change to the building they occupy . that include any change to " ( ii ) either part of the building , or ( iii ) permanent outdoor structure " . literally , if an academy school want to build a bike shed , it will have to go to the Secretary of State . it be clear in Committee that Ministers have not even realise that that would apply to academy school . those be just two of the many , many centralise measure in the Bill . while freedom be be take away on the one hand , accountability on the other side of the ledger be be water down too . the Government already get rid of single - word Ofsted judgment and replace they with something much more complicated that do not seem to have leave anybody very happy . then , clause 45 end the automatic conversion of fail school into academy . the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden have say , " the current system , in which fail school automatically become academy , provide clarity and de - politicisation , and ensure a rapid transition . I fear that make that process discretionary would result in a large increase in judicial review , pressure on council and prolonged uncertainty , which be in nobody ' s interest . " — [ Official Report , 8 January 2025 ; Vol . 759 , c . 902 . ] she also say , " the DfE will find itself mire in the high court in judicial review . when we try to transfer our first fail school to a Harris academy we spend two year in court , and child … don ' t have that time to waste . " she be so right . Rob Tarn , the chief executive of the Northern Education Trust , have make the same point : " if there ' s no long a know , blanket reality … there be a risk that , where it ' s be determine a school need to join a strong trust , it will take much long and we will go back to the early day of academisation when people go to court . " the Children ' s Commissioner make that point too . she say that she be " deeply concerned that we be legislate against the thing we know work in school , and that we risk child spend long in fail school by slow down the pace of school improvement . " she be right . the Confederation of School Trusts have say that the current system offer struggle school " clarity " as they " will join a trust , and that process can begin immediately " . in contrast , they warn , " we be not clear on how commission part - time support through the rise arrangement make that any easy . " the former national school commissioner , Sir David Carter , have warn that the " argument and legal action that will arise if a school in Cumbria be tell to join a trust while a school in Cornwall just get arm ' s length support will only add delay to deliver a fair and well offer to child . " worse still be clause 51 , which attack school choice and the freedom to go to good school . it be in 1987 that Mrs Thatcher announce that " we will allow popular school to take in as many child as space will permit . and this will stop local authority from put artificially low limit on entry to good school . " that agenda become know as local management of school and of it the former Labour Minister Lord Adonis write , " Local Management of Schools be an unalloyed and almost immediate success … school budget under LMS be base largely on pupil number , so parental choice come to matter as never before . " in contrast , the Government ' s impact assessment of the Bill say : " we want the local authority to have more influence over the pan for school in their area " . it go on to say : " it could also limit the ability of popular school to grow … if a school be require to lower their PAN , some pupil who would have otherwise be admit will be unable to attend the school . this will negatively impact on parental preference " . Michael Johnson , the leader of the very successful Chulmleigh trust , warn that that " could be disastrous for successful school … the Government be not well place than parent to decide which school a child attend . " do my hon . friend , like I , reflect on the irony that the success from 2010 to 2024 , which we on the conservative Benches would naturally celebrate , be only possible because of the Labour visionary who drive the academy programme forward , make change , develop the argument , roll the pitch and allow we to lift our school to much high level of performance and our child from deprive background to much well result . Labour Members be the creator of that , and now this Government be disown it . it be tragic . it be not we criticise the Bill ; it be the professional — the people who have give their life to education . I will give another example . Gareth Stevens , leader of Inspiration Trust , another high - perform trust , give the example of his local council want to halve place at an outstanding school to prop up other school . he say that " the idea that we could have the rug pull out from under we and the number of place in our high perform school cut be the most worrying thing … it will mean few place at high perform good or outstanding school " . the Bill allow a local authority to object to the current admission number of any school anywhere in the country ; that become apparent in Committee . there will therefore be border dispute with local authority try to push down number in neighbouring authority . I suspect that faith and selective school will be particularly in the crosshair of some of the more ideological left - wing authority . there be nothing in the Bill to prevent the school adjudicator from set a publish admission number to zero , to shut a school or to stop one from opening . we try to amend the Bill to require school performance to be take into account when decision be make on pupil number , but amazingly , the Government vote even that down . when there be dramatic fall in pupil number , it be true that school will shut or shrink , whatever the rule be . under parental choice , however , the place that shrink will be determine by parent vote with their foot . in contrast , under this school Bill , it will depend on the ideological and political view of local councillor . the Bill be move power from parent to politician . even this week , we have see further criticism of the Bill from people who have devote their whole life to improve education . the former head of Ofsted have say that this Bill be level down , and call on the Secretary of State to " think again before the damage be do . " the chief executive of Advantage Schools say : " I think it would be a show of strength to pass the wellbee part of the school bill and consider the rest for a * much * long period . " that be a good idea . Lord Harris , who back Labour at the last election , say : " we want well school for everybody and the Schools Bill will do the opposite of this , harm the most disadvantaged family . I hope that Labour will think again . " we also hope that they will think again . we will fight on to stop this misguided , destructive and , ultimately , just very , very depressing Bill . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I rise to speak in support of new clause 1 , new clause 2 and amendment 2 , all in my name . the amount of time afford to the Education Select Committee to undertake detailed scrutiny of the Bill be very limited . we be able to undertake just one evidence session on part 2 , and we deliberately seek not to duplicate the evidence take by the Public Bill Committee . we therefore take limited evidence on the change to the role of local authority in school place planning and admission . I speak , however , as an MP whose constituent have suffer the consequence of the fragmentation of admission policy and place plan over the past 14 year . that have result in school place sometimes be deliver in area where they be not need , undermine other local school ; our council struggle to ensure the delivery of school place that be need , particularly for child with special educational need and disability ; and local place at a very popular local school be allocate not to local family but to child across a wide area of south - east London . I therefore wholeheartedly support the attempt in the Bill to restore coherence to admission and place plan through the role of local authority . I also support the measure to reduce the cost of school uniform for family by limit the number of brand item , which be a really significant cost of live pressure for family . however , I encourage the Government to keep a careful watch on how this requirement be be comply with , particularly in relation to the cost of blazer , have hear of one appalling example in my constituency of a very vulnerable child who have be allocate a place at a good school but be tell she could not attend until she be wear a blazer , the cost of which be over £ 100 — way beyond the mean of her family . I know the Minister will agree that no child should be shut out of the classroom because their family can not afford the right clothe for they to wear , and that that be the intention of the Bill , but the monitoring of the detail will be important . I also welcome the measure in the Bill to introduce a register of home - educate child . while home education be the right option for some child who be well support to receive education at home , the number of child go miss from the education radar , out of sight and without any regulation of the quality of the education they be receive , and sometimes come to harm , as in the horrific recent case of Sara Sharif , be deeply concern . the measure in the Bill will help to address this . the Education Committee welcome the introduction of breakfast club in the Bill , which will help to ensure that no child have to start the school day hungry , but we also hear compelling evidence of the importance of school lunch for the poor child . around one in 10 child who be eligible for free school meal do not claim they because their parent or carer do not complete the administrative process . this can be because of difficulty with the administrative process itself , lack of awareness about the entitlement , or language barrier . child from non - white background be more likely to be unregistered . this under - registration have impact on school too , since the ability of school to draw down pupil premium funding be link directly to the registration of eligible child for free school meal . I be talk about the exist entitlement , not a new spending commitment . the benefit of free school meal for child ' s health and wellbeing and their ability to learn be clear , and be be see in local authority that be already auto - enrol eligible child , include Middlesbrough , Redcar and Cleveland and some London borough . in London , the benefit be pupil premium receipt for school because the Mayor of London be already fund universal free school meal . research from the Food Foundation find that , while local authority be successful in their mission to reduce the number of eligible child miss out on free school meal , it be a difficult and resource - intensive task , and the datum sharing between relevant authority necessary to register child automatically be not straightforward . the local authority pilot auto - enrolment have call for central Government to step in and help . the Committee have recommend that the Government introduce auto - enrolment for child already eligible for free school meal . this recommendation would ensure that between 200 , 000 and 250 , 000 additional family with the poor child in our country , who be already eligible , will receive the meal to which they be entitle . that recommendation be reflect in new clause 1 , and I hope the Government will choose to support it today . I turn to amendment 2 . the Committee take evidence on breakfast club . we hear about the benefit of they both in ensure that child do not start the school day hungry , and in relation to the opportunity afford a child to settle gently into the school day and play with their friend . we also hear about the need for breakfast to be provide on a flexible basis , so that child whose family be unable to get they to school early . who may be among the most vulnerable child , do not miss out on this vital meal . the Committee have hear extensive evidence in our inquiry on special educational need and disability about the difficulty that family of disabled child have in find childcare and access extracurricular activity . to that end , it be vital that child with SEND can access breakfast club on an equal footing with their peer . this may involve additional cost , particularly in relation to home - to - school transport and the need to have specialist staff on site at the time of the breakfast club . I welcome the fact that the early adopter programme include about 50 specialist school , but the inclusion of child with SEND in breakfast club in mainstream school be also essential , and I hope the Government be look closely at the early adopter and at any additional support that may be need to ensure that . amendment 2 would ensure that child with SEND be able to access breakfast club , and I hope the Government will support it . finally , I turn to new clause 2 . this be a very large Bill cover many area of policy , and it be be take through this House very quickly and be not subject to any pre - legislative scrutiny . there have be a large number of Government amendment at a late stage , and a number of measure in the Bill will be contingent on Government policy that be not in the Bill for their success , include the curriculum and assessment review , the reform to the ofsted assessment framework and the work of the child poverty taskforce . new clause 2 would require the Secretary of State to conduct regular review of the impact of this Act and to publish report . I would anticipate that such review would show a positive impact of this legislation . have a clear monitoring and reporting mechanism be good practice , particularly for a Bill of this size that have be deliver so quickly . I welcome the intention behind this Bill and the measure it contain . I look forward to support it this evening , and my Committee look forward to play a constructive role in scrutinise its impact in the month and year to come . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . a number of measure in part 2 of this Bill be to be welcome . however , after a decade of neglect by the Conservatives , I want to ask Ministers this : when our school be crumble , when we can not find specialist teacher , when special need provision be in crisis and when we have a huge persistent absence problem , why have the Government choose to tinker with academy and governance arrangement as their priority education policy ? the one strong message come through from education leader , include those who have no ideological axe to grind , be that the way that the Government have go about part 2 of the Bill show a lack of coherent vision for the school system , with no White Paper and no consultation with those on the frontline or in leadership position across the sector . I turn to some of the new clause table in my name . with all the pressure on family finance , new clause 7 would ensure that free school meal be available to child from household earn less than £ 20 , 000 per year and automatically enrol eligible child into this provision . liberal Democrats have long believe that this be an effective , target intervention that would help child in poverty at both primary and secondary school to concentrate , to learn and to thrive . new clause 54 would require the Secretary of State to find out exactly how many child be eligible for , but not claim , free school meal or be not register for pupil premium funding . it beggar belief that , as spell out in recent answer to parliamentary question that I have submit , the Government be fly blind on this issue , with the last proper study of uptake date back to 2013 . new clause 54 would require regular review of free school meal uptake . as we discuss at length this morning in Westminster Hall , and as the Chair of the Education Committee point out , an estimate 230 , 000 eligible child be miss out on a free school meal . where local authority auto - enrol child into free school meal , it make a real difference . in Liberal Democrat - lead Durham , 2 , 500 additional child now benefit from a hot lunch , and their school benefit from an additional £ 3 million in pupil premium funding . in Committee , the Minister confirm the Government ' s intention to improve uptake by look at auto - enrolment and datum sharing between Departments . however , his suggestion that locally lead effort be more likely to meet the need of local community risk patchy action across the country . we believe that this require a national response , and we therefore strongly urge the Government to look at auto - enrolment as well as increase the eligibility threshold , to ensure that we be feed some of our poor pupil , whether they be at primary or secondary school . stay on the theme of the cost of living pressure on family , we on the liberal Democrat Benches strongly support the objective of bring down the cost of school uniform for hard - press family up and down the country . however , we remain concerned that the Bill as draft , in set a maximum number of brand uniform item , be highly prescriptive for school and will not actually rein in the cost of those item . as the Chair of the Select Committee have just point out , there be nothing to prevent item cost £ 100 or more each . furthermore , an answer to a parliamentary question that I table state that , on average , girl ' uniform cost £ 25 to £ 30 more than boy ’ uniform . if we want to tackle these inequality , the good thing to do be to support our amendment 1 . I want to put on record my thank to the Clerks , because we pick up a drafting error in our amendment 1 . the online version be correct , but the print version be incorrect . our amendment 1 actually amend clause 24 and propose a monetary cap , rather than a cap on the number of item . that would be review and update in line with inflation through secondary legislation every year . it would also drive down cost as supplier would have to compete for school contract . the hon . member mention answer to write parliamentary question . would she have be as surprised as I be to see the answer to a write pq of mine say that if a school specify that a badge be sew on to an otherwise generic blazer , that badge would count as an item of brand uniform ? I be shocked , because I be about to come to that as a possible solution to stay within the price cap . apparently that will not be allow either — order . if the statement that the hon . Lady have make about a potential drafting error be indeed the case , have she make arrangement to ensure that the correct version of the amendment have be publish ? yes , we have be in touch with the Clerks , who have correct the amendment online . the print version be incorrect , but in the online version amendment 1 amend clause 24 instead of clause 23 . we will ensure that that process have indeed take place . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . in Committee , the Minister say that a cost cap , rather than an item cap , would be too complex and risk reduce choice for parent by increase school ' reliance on specific supplier . she also suggest that there would be regional variation in uniform pricing . again , have table a pq , it be clear that there have be no analysis by the Government to show regional variation in uniform price . I be go to suggest that school that want more brand on item under a cost cap could sew or stick logo on plain jumper and other item buy cheaply in supermarket . I believe the Government want parent to have choice . my suggestion would give parent the choice of go to a well - know supermarket brand and then apply the school logo . I be shocked to hear about the answer to the pq table by the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , and I will have a look at it afterwards . our amendment 1 would put pound and penny back into parent ' pocket and avoid top - down meddling from Whitehall on school uniform policy . also on school uniform , new clause 12 concern a simple matter of fairness . the zero rate of vat apply only on clothing for child up to the age of 14 , and parent have to pay vat on school uniform for child who be large or over the age of 14 . in Committee , the Minister cite the cost to the Exchequer of make the change , but if the Government ' s state aim be to bring down uniform price , I humbly suggest that she press the Chancellor to look at this amendment , because it be a simple change to make . turn to special need , as I say at the outset , this be probably the big burning priority for the school leader I speak to up and down the country . it certainly be across this House , give the number of member involve in SEND debate . new clause 10 in my name would establish a new dedicated national body for SEND , which would fund high - need provision and ensure that child with particularly complex need receive tailor support . with high - need spending have triple since 2015 and , as the Minister herself point out , educational outcome for SEND pupil remain stagnant , we need to reform the system . I know she be busy work on this , but a national body would help reduce the postcode lottery for those with the high need . indeed , a grow body of expert in the sector be start to suggest that a national body could gather evidence on the efficacy of various SEND intervention . yesterday I say it be surprising that a Bill so entitled have little content on wellbee . give the huge and grow mental health crisis among our child and young people , new clause 9 in my name would place a duty on school governing body to ensure that every school in England , whether primary or secondary , have a dedicated mental health practitioner on site . the Government have repeatedly say they be commit to provide mental health support in every school , but it be clear when I press the Minister in the Chamber during a debate last Thursday that the support the Government be commit to provide will certainly not be the equivalent of a full - time person in every school . mental health support team , which the Government be look to expand , do great work but be spread far too thinly . our child and our school be cry out for more dedicated mental health professional time . let I turn to the issue of academy school . I fear that the Government be mostly try to fix a problem that do not really exist , rather than focus on the real challenge in education . my big concern here be that minister be put the cart before the horse by write into legislation that all school must follow a curriculum of which we do not yet know the content because it be under review . new clause 51 in my name would ensure that we have a core common curriculum with local flexibility build in . new clause 52 would ensure parliamentary oversight , give that we do not know the result of the ongoing review . although we Liberal Democrats have always maintain that the automatic academy order be not a silver bullet for turn around fail school , until such a time as Ofsted and Government have settle on a swift and robust new accountability and inspection regime to ensure high standard in all our school , remove the automatic academy order for school that be cause concern be certainly very risky . amendment 223 and 225 in my name would ensure parliamentary oversight and attempt to mitigate some of those risk . let I turn to home education . on Second Reading , I state that we Liberal Democrats strongly support a register of child not in school to ensure that vulnerable child do not disappear from the system . we also strongly support the right of parent to choose to home educate where that be the good option for their child . however , in evidence to the Bill Committee , even the Association of Directors of Children ' s Services be circumspect about the amount of information that parent will be expect to supply , as set out in clause 26 . that level of detail risk become intrusive and unnecessary . minister must think again . new clause 48 call for , at the very least , a review of the register ' s impact on home educator to be carry out within six month , to ensure that only report requirement that be strictly necessary for safeguard purpose be retain . amendment 224 would remove the requirement for carer of child in special school to secure local authority consent to be home educate . new clause 53 would ensure that home - educate child be not exclude from national examination because of financial or capacity constraint . on home education , do the hon . Lady agree that not only be it a case of get the balance right between privacy and the right to educate at home , but it be important that home educator do not feel stigmatise by the ability of the state to enter private property under less - than - forthcoming mean that enable it subsequently to make an assessment of home education that be completely contrary to the reality experience by the child in their own home ? the hon . Gentleman express concern that those of we on the Bill Committee find in the write evidence we receive from family who home educate . my inbox certainly have such correspondence from home educator in my constituency . there be a real fear that this legislation , which be seek to safeguard child who go miss from education , will over - police home educator , most of whom be do a great job . in fact , a lot of they home educate their child not because they want to but because they feel force to . that come back to what I be say about the crisis in our special need system , and the fact that so much special need provision just do not meet the need of child , so parent give up work to be able to home educate their child . by virtue of their child ' s need , parent tend to be much more flexible in how they home educate . the very onerous reporting mechanism will interfere with the flexibility that parent need to provide to their child . in conclusion , I say respectfully to Ministers that part 2 of the Bill be a bit of a muddle , because the second half of it be bolt on to some well - trail measure that largely have cross - party support . I hope minister have hear the strength of concern from school leader about the unintended consequence of some of their measure . if they be serious about help family with the cost pressure they face , I trust they will listen to cross - party call on free school meal , whether that be introduce auto - enrolment or raise the eligibility threshold , as well as to the more effective approach to manage the cost of school uniform that I have set out . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , I refer back to the point make by Munira Wilson about the correct online version of her amendment 1 , for the benefit of Members who be in the Chamber . in case there be any confusion , the correct version should begin : " clause 24 , page 44 , leave out line 34 to line 4 on page 45 and insert " . it be a pleasure to speak in this important debate and express my support for the Bill . for far too long , school child have bear the brunt of academisation . fortunately , the Labour Government in Wales reject this model , but , have be a teacher on the border for most of my work life and a national executive member of the NASUWT , I have see at first hand the negative impact of academy become the default model , while local authority have be sideline . since the introduction of the Academies Act 2010 , the freedom for academy and free school to set their own pay , term and condition have lead to the exploitation of teacher . for example , teacher at Ark school be expect to work 1 , 657 hour — more annually than a maintain school teacher , while earn £ 7 less per hour . the lack of national consistency not only allow these school to undervalue and overwork staff but undermine basic right such as pension scheme , maternity and sick pay . our Bill will tackle those disparity by extend the statutory pay and condition framework to all teacher in academy , ensure great consistency and fairness between academy and maintain school . there be also the issue of admission policy . too many school misuse their control over admission to break with inclusive local authority policy , select what they consider to be a more favourable intake of student . the Bill ' s extension of the power to direct admission to academy will ensure that local authority can secure place for hard - to - place and vulnerable student , rather than allow academy to exercise shameful selective admission . furthermore , by end academy presumption , the Bill take a significant step towards increase academy accountability , empower local authority to well serve the need of their community , particularly help SEND student and reduce reliance on unaffordable independent provider . I hope to see the severe disparity between teacher ' pay and the high salary of academy ceo review and address in future education legislation . we must ensure that funding be direct where it be most need : to teach and learn . this Bill mark an historic first step towards create an accountable and fair education system that will benefit all our child . it be a pleasure to take part in this debate and to follow the hon . member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) , who have do we and the nation a great service with the clarity of his speech . the Labour party be often accuse of work to serve the producer interest rather than the consumer interest , look after the need of the trade union and not those of the ordinary citizen or , in this case , the child . but rarely do any Labour Member make it quite so explicit as the hon . Gentleman just do , with a total betrayal of the child and a total focus on the need of the professional , their interest , their pay , their disparity and their condition . there be nothing about the child , nothing about the standard of education . never have I see a Labour Member speak up so honestly about what this Bill be really about . we should be enormously grateful to he for do that , and for do it so clearly — and in not many word . this Bill contain 38 policy proposal all link by a troubling theme : the misguided notion that the bureaucrat know well . in advocate for new school to be open and control by local authority , the Government choose to ignore the evidence that competition and innovation be what drive up standard , and instead they consolidate power in the hand of bureaucrat . this Bill also undermine the right of parent to determine what be good for their child ' s education , whether it be attend school or be home educate . far from empower school , which until the hon . member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r come along Ministers have try to pretend this Bill do , the Bill impose a centralised , outdated version of education that stifle choice and which will reverse 14 year of progress . actually , it be more than that . it be 25 year of progress because , as I refer to early in an intervention , it be 2000 when the then Labour Prime Minister announce the academy programme , and I think it be in 2002 that the first city academy open . that be a quarter of a century of progress in which time demonstrably , by every know measure of performance , school in Wales have fall behind school in England practise these supposedly appalling academy policy which have lead to such an improvement for the child . the hon . Gentleman ' s speech be quite remarkable . but I would hope there be member opposite who be not so tie up in their trade union engagement — their producer - interest capture — that they can instead focus on the interest of young people . when my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) and I and member opposite serve on the Education Committee which I chair , we be horribly aware that the policy that we be help to scrutinise and influence would have an impact on life for decade to come . education policy be in many way more fundamental than the economic policy pursue by a Government at any time , which be at least more easily alter . but if we close down the opportunity for disadvantaged child , that will be have a negative impact on they , on their family , on their community and indeed on this country for decade to come . that be why this be such a bad idea . under the current system , a third of our child leave school without the basic qualification to succeed in life , so do the right hon . Gentleman not agree that that show that the current system be fail and need change ? furthermore , in the community with the most disadvantaged — I mean those outside of London — the academisation approach have not make an impact and have not turn around the life chance of child grow up in the most deprived ward . I have work in those community and with those school and see the impact of trust after trust fail those child . I will not accept that . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that that be unacceptable and that we have to move forward from this day to make great improvement to make sure that the most disadvantaged student genuinely get the opportunity they deserve ? I thank the hon . Lady for her speech , if not intervention , and I certainly applaud her passion for the interest of child , disadvantaged child in particular , and her rage at failing in the system and her desire to see improvement , which might need to be radical , but we have not hear how the mechanic of the change propose in this Bill will raise standard . they will in fact dismantle they . the hon . Lady ' s intervention come in the context of my follow the hon . member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r talk about Wales , and it be clear that the system be create by this Bill be much more akin to that in Wales , exactly as the hon . Gentleman so honestly say . do the hon . Lady suggest that deprive child in Wales have well outcome than they do in England ? [ interruption . ] she move to stand up but then think well of it , which be wise because she know that the situation in Wales — which , as the hon . Gentleman say , be exactly what this Bill be try to create — be infinitely bad than it be in England . whatever the failing of the system in England , it be demonstrably well than it be 15 or indeed 25 year ago , and it be demonstrably well than it be in Wales . rise — I happily give way to the hon . Lady again . order . I remind hon . member that intervention should be short . I thank the right hon . gentleman for give way once again . in my most recent conversation with a group of my headteacher , not one of they raise concern about this section of the Bill and the reform . for they , the question of academisation and how the amendment have be make will not limit they in their capability to do the good for their child . they be concern about issue that will come forward as a result of the Bill around SEND , which have be mention by hon . member from across the House , and other thing that be restrict they from make progress . I thank the hon . Lady , but she again could not explain anything about the Bill . her passion for improvement be great — we would all applaud that — but her linkage to anything in the Bill that will improve matter be distinctly missing . many people , include Sir Jon Coles of United Learning , have criticise the proposal in the Bill ; he say they will effectively destroy the academy system . I could not tell where the hon . Lady be on that , but the hon . member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r speak with great clarity . where once Labour promise we " education , education , education , " it now promise we bureaucracy , bureaucracy , bureaucracy . tragically , it be our child who will bear the consequence . the outcome of the last Labour Government serve as a stark warning of where the Bill will lead . in 2010 , notwithstanding the nascent academy movement , we inherit a country where our child rank 27th globally in read . we spend more on education than Germany , yet achieve result that lag behind nation like Poland . by the time we leave office , England ' s student be rank as the good reader in the western world . in 2010 , just 68 % of school be rate good or outstanding , but today that figure be 90 % . these dramatic improvement do not happen by accident ; they be the result of a system that put freedom , competition and accountability at the centre of education , and equally importantly leave mediocrity with nowhere to hide . if the conservative education reform be great , it be only because we be stand on the shoulder of giant . " Academies be introduce in the area of great challenge , harness the drive of external sponsor and strong school leadership to bring new hope to our most disadvantaged area . " not my word , but those of the long serve Labour Prime Minister , Sir Tony Blair , in 2005 . to his credit , he recognise the failing of our country ' s overly centralised education system and start the reform that pave the way to make our school great again . from tiny acorn do mighty oak grow , and that be what the Conservatives deliver . in 14 year , the number of child attend academy skyrocket from 192 , 000 to 4 . 9 million . that be transformative for pupil across England , particularly those live in deprive community . one example be Harris Academy Battersea . formerly know as Battersea Park school , it be consider inadequate before join the Harris Federation in 2014 . at that time , 68 % of student achieve five or more gcse at grade a * to C . by 2017 , that figure have rise to 83 % , and in 2018 Ofsted rate the academy as outstanding , note that teacher be proud to work there , morale be high , and pupil of all ability make very strong progress . by put a strong emphasis on cultural enrichment and academic excellence , the life chance of the working - class pupil that academy predominantly teach and who labour claim to represent be transform . I be pleased that the Government have see sense on one issue — I congratulate the Minister on that — and have amend the Bill to stop the extension of national pay rule to academy , and only require academy to have due regard to the school teacher ' pay and condition document , rather than impose a ceiling on pay . that would have undermine the remarkable progress make by these institution in raise standard , particularly for disadvantaged pupil . new clause 38 go one step far , make the pay set out in the school teacher ' pay and condition document a floor and extend freedom over pay and condition to maintain school . one of the strength of academy be their ability to respond flexibly to local need , include offer competitive salary to attract and retain the good teacher in challenge area . limit that flexibility would ignore the reality of teacher recruitment and retention , especially in community where the need for high - quality education be great , because people respond to incentive . if academy can not pay the good math or physics teacher more , the child who would benefit from their skill the most will be leave behind . build on the need for great freedom and flexibility to raise standard , we introduce free school , an initiative that help to spark a renaissance in english education . walk hand in hand with its union paymaster , who decry those school as unaccountable and underfunded , as we hear set out in the previous speech , Labour want these engine of social mobility to be destroy . its proposal to allow local authority to open new school , along with its plan review of the free school programme , would shift control of our child ' s education away from community and teacher and back into the hand of bureaucrat . unfortunately , the process have already start . in October , Ministers pause plan to open 44 new state school in England , put parent who plan to send their child there in limbo , so I be pleased to support new clause 39 , which would reverse that pause and allow those school to open as plan . let we be clear : in 2024 , 21 % of GCSE entry from free school achieve a grade 7 or above compare with 19 % in comprehensive school . labour may not want to face the fact , but the reality be that sometimes the bureaucrat and the trade union shop steward do not know well . the Secretary of State be labour ' s Miss Trunchbull , put our teacher in the chokey to satisfy her union paymaster . this Government be so certain in their belief that they know good that they will not even allow parent the freedom to educate their own child without state interference . bury within this Bill be a new legal requirement for local authority to maintain a register of child not in school — a policy that I recognise be in the conservative party ' s manifesto , but which have the potential to be not just unhelpful , but actively harmful to child . our country have long uphold the primacy of parent , not the state , in determine the good education for their child , and this proposal seek to undermine that fundamental covenant . that be why I support amendment 200 , which would require a local authority to submit a statement of reason when it do not agree for a child to be take out of school to be home educate . it should at least have to account for itself . compulsory enrolment could have serious consequence , as family may simply refuse to comply and potentially disengage from state involvement altogether because of this overreach , lead to negative unintended consequence that could impact on the child ' s wellbee . the state think that it have a divine right to infringe on every aspect of the child ' s life — or , at least , this Government do . they want to know what home - educate child do at the weekend and during the holiday . if that information be not require for child who attend mainstream school , what be the justification for demand it for child who be home - school ? why , in response to my repeat intervention , could the Minister not provide any reassurance that some sensible and proportionate rule would be put in place ? I therefore support amendment 197 , which would remove that requirement . it be John Maynard Keynes who say : " when the fact change , I change my mind " . in the same spirit , I ask colleague across the Chamber what they do . the evidence be clear : freedom and flexibility in education drive up standard and deliver well outcome for child . in government , we follow the evidence and build on the previous Labour Government ' s body of work , and the result speak for themselves . England now have the good reader in the western world , a record number of school rate " good " or " outstanding " and great opportunity for working - class child , albeit never at the level we would like , which be why that need to be build on , not knock to the ground . as proud as I be of our record , this debate be not about party politic . at its heart , it be about ensure that every child , regardless of their background , have access to the high - quality education that we can provide . I urge the Secretary of State to follow the evidence , not ideology . I will vote against this Bill , but give the Government ' s majority , we accept that however misguide these policy be , they will probably pass . all I can do be finish by appeal to colleague across the Chamber to show courage , stand up for the poor in society , stop the wrecker and support our amendment this evening when we come to vote . I commend the Minister on all the excellent work that have take place so far on the Bill . my representation will be on home education . I recognise the importance of safeguard and make sure that vulnerable child do not fall through the net ; however , the home - educate community be grow , diverse and caring , and those involve be fiercely passionate about their child ' s education and learning . amendment 4 , 13 and 14 , which stand in my name , would add to the Bill the definition of " suitable education " that already appear in section 7 of the Education Act 1996 . without these amendment , it would be leave to individual local authority officer to decide what they think be suitable education . amendment 5 and 7 , also in my name , be about registration and the content of the register . they would make it no long compulsory to provide the second parent ' s name if it be not relevant to the child ' s education . if the second parent ' s name be not mandatory , the lone parent can not be sanction for fail to supply it . the requirement to provide two parent ' name disproportionately impact single parent , who may have to make an impossible choice between provoke their ex - partner and see their child force back into school . failure to comply may result in the lone parent have to choose between send their child to school , which may not be the good place for they , and fine and imprisonment . amendment 8 to 12 , which I table , deal with the school attendance order process . they would remove condition C and D , which , if meet , allow a notice to be serve for a school attendance order . Conditions C and D be condition in which a parent be unable or unwilling to provide information for the register . amendment 15 to 19 , in my name , relate to home visit . home visit be part of the school attendance order process , and my amendment would put it in the Bill that there must be reasonable ground for refusal . a child may be extremely anxious about have stranger in their safe space — their home — who be there to scrutinise how much the child be learn , and who have the power to send the child back to school if they deem what they be learn to be insufficient . a parent may therefore feel compel to refuse a home visit . that should not be a reason to fail their home education , so it should be put in the Bill that there may be reasonable ground for a refusal . that can not be leave to guidance at a later date . furthermore , it would be use a sledgehammer to crack a nut if the local authority have a statutory duty to consider all the setting in which a child be be educate , since those venue and activity will constantly be evolve . instead , the Bill should say that the local authority may consider some of those setting . amendment 15 to 19 allow home visit to be refuse on reasonable ground . that would also mitigate the use of school attendance order to deal with discrepancy in registration . condition C and D in subsection ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) of propose new section 436H of the Education Act 1996 would otherwise have a disproportionate impact on lone - parent household , which be mostly head by mother . under propose new section 436C , detail of both parent would be require for the register , while propose new section 436d impose a legal duty on parent to supply that information . without my amendment , propose new section 436I could create a situation in which a lone parent who be scared to supply information about an absent parent or former partner be put at risk of reprisal from the non - resident parent , whose address will also be visit , as one of the home in which the child live . finally , I would like to give the House a message from many of my constituent who be home educator . there be some who say , " home educator do a good job , but " . a whole community be dismiss in seven word . just for once , can we acknowledge the thousand of family who be take responsibility for their child ' s education , often as a result of shortcoming in the school system , as be rightly say by the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) ? their work , and that of their child , should be appreciate and value . we should not stigmatise home education ; if child protection law and system fail , it be they that should require scrutiny . the debate on this Bill have be comprehensive . I rise to support a number of amendment to this Bill that hon . friend have table , but I open on a point that have already be much debate , not only yesterday but during the Bill ' s early stage . the Minister have say from the Dispatch Box that she regard the safety of child as be the Government ' s high priority , but the Government ' s absolute refusal to countenance the amendment and proposal on equal protection demonstrate a lack of will to follow most other country in implement law that provide that level of protection to child . that remain enormously disappointing , and will be an outstanding issue , in term of child protection , for the foreseeable future . the measure before the House be primarily concerned with school . I would like to back up a number of colleague who have set out the long - stand cross - party nature of the measure that underpin the success of the education system in England . I be a governor at one of the first school to ever become an academy . it be sponsor by a significant Labour party donor , who come forward to support a conservative local authority that engage with that programme . I also pay tribute to the work do by the Liberal Democrat Minister David Laws . he attend Cabinet as the Minister for school standard when the Academies Act 2010 , which underpin everything structural that have drive forward academy standard , be implement under the coalition Government . I be surprised to hear the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) disown the contribution that the Liberal Democrats make , on a cross - party basis , to drive up school standard in England over the year . I choose my word carefully . I talk about the past decade , during which the Liberal Democrats be not in government . the Conservatives have seven or eight Education Secretaries in that period . that carousel of constant change demonstrate how little those Education Secretaries value education . the state of our school building , and of our special educational need and disability system , tell we all we need to know about how much the Tories value education . it be important that we pay tribute to the work that David Laws do . as a key part of that coalition , he shape the legislation that underpin all the action that follow , by the coalition and by Conservative Education Secretaries in majority conservative government . we all need to recognise not only that education be a share priority , but that all party contribute to drive thing forward and create these structure over the year . I have a degree of sympathy with the Government on an issue that they be try to address . it have always be a legal conundrum that successive education act have place detailed , specific legal obligation on local authority regard the provision of school place in general , and the provision of education to individual child to whom they owe a duty , but there be time when that be in conflict with the fact that academy school be their own admission authority . that be not new ; it have be true of faith school for many year . Most of we in this House will have have casework arise from parent be frustrate about the difficulty in their relationship with their child ' s school . however , a number of my hon . friend have make the point that most of the measure in this Bill be not about relieve those issue that can be burdensome for family and child , but be about impose much more centralised control over what go on in the education system in England , where school standard have power ahead of those that we see in other part of the United Kingdom , particularly in labour - run Wales . the outset of my journey on this issue be in the die day of the last Labour Government , when I be a member of , and then chair of , the National Employers ' Organisation for School Teachers . that body , as an employer , provide evidence to determine pay and condition for school teacher . we might generally conjecture , as member of the public or as member of the political establishment , that that would be a fairly light - touch responsibility — that we would take a strategic interest in the workforce , and occasionally give advice and guidance . I be surprised to discover that we be to attend , with 17 union , a weekly meeting with the then Secretary of State , Ed Balls , and his deputy Jim Knight , at the then Department for Children , Schools and Families , in which those union would provide Ministers with a detailed list of their expectation for how every aspect of education policy would be micromanage . those regular weekly meeting come to an end with the election of the coalition Government , but I be aware that they have resume since the election last year . we have hear admission from Ministers about how rarely they have engage with school leader , and have note a great reluctance to say how often they engage with those who represent the union interest . intervene and tell we ! I invite the Minister to say how often she have be meet those school leader . we have also see a move to re - establish the school support staff negotiate body . I have the privilege of chair the employer ' side of that body . its purpose be not only to give the teaching union a voice on every aspect of education , but to support staff . one of the big challenge for the last Labour Government be the fact that the teaching union hate the idea that school support staff would have that voice when it come to what go on in the classroom . it be , again , a cause for concern that the priority for the new Government be not to ask themselves , " how can we build on the progress that we have make with policy that we establish and principle that we introduce ? " , but to ask themselves , " how can we revert to give control to those with a vested interest in how much money be spend , rather than those with a vested interest in the attainment of the child in all our school ? " that be why it be so important for we to support new clause 38 . in government , we should have take the opportunity to " extend freedom over pay and condition to … maintain school " , but the present Government , who say that they regard education as a priority , now have that opportunity . they have the opportunity to create a genuinely level playing field , so that , appropriately , the maintain school that have be some of the main driver of the progress in reading and mathematic among the young child , which be one of the proud achievement of the past decade , can also secure teacher of the high quality . I would be grateful if the Minister confirm that the union ' demand that no one should teach in a classroom without qualified teacher status will not apply to university technical college . we know that UTCs have sometimes struggle in the current educational landscape . utc Heathrow in my constituency , for instance , introduce an educational offer for a group of young people who might otherwise find it difficult to gain access to the type of education that would give they the start in life that they need . that be an example of success and an opportunity on which we could build , but instead it be be overlook and potentially undermine by measure on the national curriculum . it be hard to understand how an aviation - focus utc closely connect with Heathrow airport , provide employment opportunity and a chance to access apprenticeship , gain technical skill and learn about catering and retail , would be well serve by our prohibit the people who know about those matter from do their work unless they have qualified teacher status . we must ensure that we retain that element of diversity and opportunity in our education system — that diversity of provision and style that be always intend to underpin academisation , but which be now at serious risk of be lose . there be clearly a need to reconcile the legal imposition on local authority — for example , the need to balance the local education budget , which be legally part of the council tax , though we be yet to see a solution that would not have an unacceptable impact on local resident , and the legal obligation on local authority to provide place — with the lack of any legal obligation on the Government to ensure that those element be properly fund . however , on the substance of the Bill , even with the very sound amendment that we be seek to pass , it be , essentially , a shopping list of union demand . what the Minister describe as a mission be a mission without a purpose . there be no sense in the Bill of how we be to take forward the progress we have make , what we want to achieve for our disadvantaged child , what target we might set and how we might go about meet they , and how we might unleash the sense of aspiration that exist in so many of our community . People ask what development we could be proud of when we leave office . when we leave office , youth unemployment be half what it have be under the last Labour Government , and there be 4 million more people in work than there be when they leave office . much of that be down to the brilliant progress that be make by so many of our school in transform education standard . this government should hang their head in shame , because all they can do be come forward with a shopping list of union demand and not for a moment put forward the need of the child of this country . I rise to support this Bill in its entirety , and I will speak about part 2 in particular . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , who speak about people hang their head in shame . it be not in scope of the Bill , but I could talk about the fact that more child be come to school not ready to learn . I could talk about the SEND crisis , the rise in child poverty or the number of young people who be not in education , employment or training . we could talk about the Conservatives ' legacy and hang our head in shame , but I do not think he would want to hear that . I be a member of the Public Bill Committee . there be a large amount of agreement about much of the Bill , but there be also some significant division ; they be rightly be debate in a lively fashion today , and I be sure that will continue . the child protection measure debate yesterday , which be broadly support , be clearly significant , but I believe that the measure in part 2 will also make a real difference to the life of many child and their family . as many colleague in the House know , I be a primary school teacher and a council leader before enter Parliament . in both those role , I take the wellbeing of child extremely seriously . I can assure Opposition Members , who might be concern about my motive for speak , that my interest lie in what be good for child and their family . give my experience , and as a dad of two young child , I can not welcome this Bill enough , and the conversation that I have have with family , governor and school staff in St Helens North suggest that I be not alone . the Bill introduce a floor , not a ceiling , in standard . ensure that every classroom have a qualified teacher at the front of it , and make sure that all school teach the same core curriculum , be common sense to most parent and carer . despite a bit of scaremongere , it be report last month that a Schools Week survey find that the majority of academy leader envisage little to no negative impact from the Bill . from speak to school leader in maintain and academy school in St Helens North , I know that be the general consensus . one of the measure in the Bill that have gain the most attention be the introduction of free breakfast club at every primary school . I sympathise with amendment 2 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , which would require school to make particular provision for child on the SEND register , and I hope that this will be monitor throughout the pilot process and go forward . we have recently have the announcement of the first 750 school to pilot the scheme , and I have previously welcome the news that PACE , Garswood primary and Ashurst primary in St Helens North be among the first cohort . I visit Ashurst last week and speak to the headteacher , Lisa Houghton , and the chair of governor , Chris Forrest . their ambition for their school , and their excitement about this opportunity , be clear . it be a fantastic school , and I have no doubt that they and many other be ready to make a success of the free breakfast club programme . we just have to give they the funding and the tool to make it work . when I be a teacher and a council leader , I often watch previous government talk about education , state school in general and child from community like mine as if they be foreign — that is , if they talk about we at all — so I be thrilled to hear the Secretary of State refer to Carr Mill primary school in my constituency when she announce the first 750 breakfast club . Carr Mill provide a model for other to follow , and have speak to headteacher Andrew Maley at an event in my constituency on Friday , I know that he be determined to take it far and will do so with our support . every single parent or carer be ambitious for their child . the vast majority be currently work every hour that God send , just to make end meet , and they will welcome the breakfast club and help with the cost of uniform , not to mention the Employment Rights Bill and other thing that opposition party continue to vote against . this Bill do a lot , and I will vote for it with enthusiasm , but there be still a lot more to do . I have a huge amount of sympathy with some of the table amendment , particularly those that would increase the take - up and availability of free school meal . for example , the use of auto - enrolment be a no - brainer , and I hope the Government will look at that . more generally , if we be to improve child ' s wellbee , we will have to end child poverty . that will need a whole - of - Government and national effort that be much big than this single Bill or any other , so I look forward to the report of the child poverty taskforce in due course — hopefully , soon rather than later . I be determined to use my time in this place to do all I can to help give every child the good possible start in life . no child should be leave behind , and if we be go to achieve that , vote for this Bill be a good place to start . there be good element in this Bill . in line with Professor Jay ' s recommendation , I agree that the House must urgently make it a duty to report abuse . as new clause 50 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) set out , we also want a new authority establish to deliver national and local inquiry into rape gang culture and the like . I fully support breakfast club , especially follow the invention of free school meal — a few year ago — by a Liberal Government . these be good measure because they put the interest of the child at the centre of everything , and the Bill go wrong where it put ideology ahead of the interest of the child and lose sight of those interest . I do not support add taxis to education , which be outside the scope of the Bill , and I be concern about the effect on academy as well . any conflation of child be educate other than at a traditional school with safeguard concern be not bear out by the evidence . it be also an ideological position that be an insult to the parent and family of the 110 , 000 child — our constituent up and down the country — who be do a great job in ensure that their child be educate , whether they be home tutored or educate otherwise . in fact , accord to local authority datum publish in academic research that have be submit to the Education Committee , only 11 % of section 47 child protection inquiry into home - educate child result in a child protection plan . that rise to 26 % — more than double — for the average of all predominantly school - educate child . child for child , those educate at home be the safe and least in need of protection , so the overwhelming weight of new bureaucracy and legislation tackle home education as a sector be not justified . my hon . friend ' s new clause 48 be therefore quite right , because we should remove the burdensome and highly intrusive sanction on such family . unless amendment 221 table by my hon . friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) be agree to , the Bill will enable grandparent read to their grandchild at weekend or in the evening on a regular basis to be serve with a notice , demand a response on pain of a monetary penalty , by a council officer who choose to issue one . these power be really extreme and extraordinary . instead , we should be support the interest of the child . we should be support home - educate child and allow they to sit exam without charge they hundred and hundred of pound for the privilege . new clause 53 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham , would do exactly that . without such a provision , can minister conceive of anything in the Bill that support home - educate child ? there be plenty to regulate they , control they and expose they to rigorous inspection , but there be not a single clause in the whole Bill that support child be educate at home . why the parsimonious Treasury can not be persuade to simply allow they to sit exam without pay hundred of pound be beyond I . forgive I , but I can not fathom why a government would not want to provide for child to sit examination . in Somerset , our council have much a much well and proportionate approach , and it have develop a protocol in partnership with home - educate family . I be worried that that constructive approach will be sweep away by the more confrontational approach that this Bill usher in . at worst , there be the prospect of a disabled child be force back to school by a local authority officer when they have good reason to be frightened of go back to that school , which really can not be right . turn to my Taunton and Wellington constituency , I pay tribute to state school such as those my child attend , and the independent one in Somerset , where , as I have say , the local authority have a more constructive and positive approach to work with school and family . I particularly pay tribute to the pupil at West Monkton primary school , who have write to I about their amazing plastic pollution campaign . I completely support their bid to ban single - use plastic , which they have write to I about . for those school and the 5 , 254 child with an education , health and care plan who can not get a school place , such as the family who come to my surgery on Friday , may I urge the Government to do more to help family with child with special educational need ? it be crazy that the system be prevent they from attend school when they want to . we need more project like the great special educational need centre be develop at Hatch Beauchamp school , which I visit recently . we need to be drive by the interest of the child , not ideology . finally , until the Government address the fact that £ 2 out of every £ 3 of council tax in place like Somerset be go on care — a national responsibility , in my opinion — then local service , school and community will see less and less investment . social care funding must be tackle . it affect the whole of local government finance , include school . that be not good for our environment , not good for job and not good for the growth of our economy . it be a privilege to stand again in support of the Bill . if we be to improve our school system for the benefit of all child , regardless of their background or educational need , their welfare and interest need to be at the heart of any reform . opposition Members ' suggestion that that can not be do without sacrifice standard in education could not be further from the truth . it be because the Government be ambitious for all child that the commitment to excellence in education be the drive force behind the measure in the Bill . labour know that when standard in school drop , it be working - class child and those whose attainment level may already be low on paper but who be no less impressive due to overcome additional learning challenge , who will suffer . the Bill represent a cultural shift in how Government approach educational reform through deliver change in the sector through partnership and child - centre policy . the prioritisation of a child ' s wellbee and a focus on inclusion be not woolly concept , but the bedrock of stability that will enable all child to thrive educationally . it be not contentious to say that we currently have a fragmented school system that be let down far too many child . that need to change . child need to feel like they belong in their school . every setting , regardless of type , must be give the freedom to drive up standard in a way that meet the need of its pupil and community . the Bill go back to the original purpose of academy , which be to share good practice and encourage collaboration in the good interest of our child . allow council to open new school will ensure not just that more school place be available , but that the place be the good one for local family and where they be need . this be a very positive step forward . a focus on school structure alone will not help family , child or teacher . I support the roll - out of breakfast club , which will lead to every child have access to a healthy meal to start the day . as the impact assessment state , club will help to boost child ' s attendance , attainment , behaviour , wellbee and their readiness to learn . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) for highlight , through amendment 2 , the need for any provision to take into consideration the need of all child , particularly those with special educational and disability need . inclusion be at the heart of this policy , so adjustment will need to be make to provide the food , transport and staffing for pupil in both mainstream and specialist provision . I also support new clause 1 and the auto - enrolment of child for free school meal . the two amendment support the Government ' s mission to tackle child poverty . unfortunately , special school fall behind mainstream one in the offer to parent and pupil outside the conventional school day . recently , a school close to Hyndburn and Haslingden that serve many of my parent and family have shorten the school day by a whole hour against the wish of parent . in all honesty , I find the reasoning quite unconvincing . it will cause chaos for family and it would not have be tolerate in a mainstream school . we must do well with SEND school to ensure that their child get the same school standard and excellent provision that the Government be work to achieve . one point that headteacher in my constituency report be that , sadly , too many child with SEND be be offer access rather than inclusion in mainstream setting . do my hon . friend agree that we need to get to grip with the SEND crisis that , sadly , we inherit from those on the Opposition Benches ? I absolutely agree . we look forward to what be go to happen on that , and particularly to what we will do to tackle those challenge and ensure that we offer truly inclusive setting and that the need of every child be at the centre of all the decision that we take . I look forward to work with colleague and discuss with Ministers how we can continue to drive high and rise standard in all our school . the Secretary of State recently speak about a subject I be really passionate about : the sense of belong in the classroom , so that a child know they have the potential to achieve great thing because they be value , and that their learning — however it be facilitate to accommodate their need — be see as important . as Ministers deeply understand , nowhere be the need for that approach great than for child live with special educational need and disability . I thank the Under - Secretary of State for Education , the hon . member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , who be currently on the Front Bench , for his encouraging word in Committee on the value of understanding wellbee . how we chart national wellbee in the future could help to embed this key datum into policy making and commission go forward , both locally and nationally , to ensure that school can drive further improvement for young people and help to reverse the low level of life satisfaction that , sadly , far too many of our child report experience . brilliant work be be undertake on this subject by the BeeWell project with Manchester University , and I urge the Minister to engage with the project , if he be not already , on what be be learn and how that datum can inform and improve provision for child and young people . as the labour champion for the Government ' s mission to break down barrier to opportunity , I have have the privilege of visit many school across Hyndburn and Haslingden to reflect on this priority area and see the amazing work of our teacher . I be proud on their behalf to support a Bill that put education back at the heart of national life . if we be to break the link between a young person ' s background and their future success , we must deliver a core guarantee of high standard with space for innovation in every child ' s education , so that they can thrive and achieve beyond any expectation that may have be place on they . today , I will concentrate on the important argument for new clause 34 and amendment 173 . new clause 34 would extend the provision of free school lunch to all primary school child . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) , who table this important new clause for consideration in Committee , with the backing of 42 hon . member , and to my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) , who move it . to set the context for new clause 34 , the child ' s charity Barnardo ' s be clear that we be see epidemic level of poverty among child in the UK . across the country , family be face a desperate struggle to put food on the table , keep the light on and heat their home . nationally , 4 . 3 million child be in poverty ; in my constituency , 3 , 920 child be grow up in poverty — that be 21 % of child . this shocking state of affair be a political choice make by the previous Government and those who back austerity , and we should not repeat it . the no child leave behind campaign , which underpin new clause 34 , be back by more than 250 civil society leader , from union to charity , medical body to faith leader and mayor to council . this widespread backing be unsurprising because the case for universal free school meal be overwhelming . the need for free school meal be acute . we all remember Marcus Rashford ignite the campaign during the pandemic , point out that we could fill 27 Wembley stadium with the 2 . 5 million child who do not know where their next meal might come from . the shameful legacy of child poverty continue . poverty be embed , with research from the University of Bristol show that one in five school run a food bank — a figure that is , I be tell , even high than the number of community food bank operate outside school by the Trussell Trust and the Independent Food Aid Network combine . the National Education Union have explain that its member see the struggle of child in poverty every day , with 80 % of teacher ask say that they have provide food for hungry child out of their own pocket . one NEU member say : " so many of our child arrive tired and hungry . I find the issue with food so awful . I stock my school kitchen every week with fruit , cereal , milk , biscuit … . the number of child who pop in to see I and then ask for food have grow over the last 2 year . it be heart break . " a universal approach be the good policy for three key reason . first , it be good for child . universal provision help child learn , grow and thrive in school . for example , research publish in November 2024 evaluate London ' s roll - out of free school meal provision to all child attend primary state school find that the policy help child ' s readiness to learn and ability to concentrate . the Department for Education ' s evaluation of the pilot undertake by the last Labour Government find that pupil in school where all child receive free school meal be find to have make four to eight week ' more progress in math and English over two year . in that pilot , the poor child make the most progress , reduce the attainment gap . in area with means - test provision , the effect on the attainment gap be negligible . on the health benefit , research publish by the British Medical Journal find that less than 2 % of pack lunch meet school food standard , so this policy be a major opportunity to increase healthy eating . it would also reduce stigma and shame , give pupil a well sense of belong in school . Means - test provision lead to child feel single out and label as poor , impact on their enjoyment of and engagement with school . secondly , provide free school meal for all be an effective investment . the evidence show that universal system reduce inequality and deliver economic prosperity beyond the classroom . a cost - benefit analysis of expand free school meal by PricewaterhouseCoopers show that for every £ 1 invest in universal free school meal , £ 1 . 71 be generate in core benefit , such as increase saving for the NHS and school and increase lifetime earning and contribution for young people . other expert research show that the provision of universal free school meal increase pupil ' lifetime earning , with the big increase be for the most disadvantaged child , thereby reduce inequality for a generation beyond school . work by the Food for Life partnership demonstrate that when food be source sustainably , more than £ 3 in social , economic and environmental value can be create for every £ 1 spend , mostly in the form of new job in the local economy . thirdly , universal provision be more efficient . we know that provide free school meal help end a situation where child fall through the gap . Means - testing will always miss some child and family . in England , the draconian eligibility criterion mean that one in three child live in poverty be consider too well off to access free school meal . restrictive eligibility , complicated registration process and stigma also block countless family from access support . universal system be also more efficient , because they massively reduce administration . by put an end to means - test child for food , school get back administration time , as all child ' s meal will be fund together via one mechanism . free school meal for all also eradicate problem of school lunch debt . universal policy be also easy to defend and protect from erosion by future government who may seek to freeze threshold or restrict eligibility . in the UK , Wales and London be lead the way in provide free , universal , healthy meal at lunchtime for every child in primary school as a means of reduce inequality — not just in school but for entire lifetime . England need to catch up . I sincerely hope that the Minister will consider build on the excellent progress on breakfast club contain in the Bill . new clause 34 make the case for free school meal for all primary school child , but I want to be clear that I and my party support the extension of this policy to all child in school , because hunger do not stop at the age of 11 . I hope to divide the House on this vital new clause , which build on the excellent breakfast club provision . I urge all hon . member to vote for the new clause , because we know that child can not learn when they be hungry and that free school dinner for all be a win policy for the economy , for family and for child . I turn briefly to amendment 173 , on local authority consent for the withdrawal of certain child from school . home education be an option that work extremely well for some family , and indeed many child thrive in this environment . nevertheless , for vulnerable child , there can be real danger in drop out of sight of public agency . the Bill already rightly mandate that if a local authority have live child protection concern about a child , because they be suffer or be likely to suffer significant harm , then their parent must obtain the consent of the local authority to withdraw the child from school . our amendment would extend that mandate to child for whom the local authority have previously have concern and take action under section 47 of the Children Act 1989 in order to safeguard and promote their welfare . the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children , support by the Children ' s Charities Coalition , have call for this strengthening of the Bill ' s protection to safeguard the most vulnerable child , for whom withdraw from school pose a risk to their safety and welfare . last year , the child safeguard practice review panel publish its analysis of serious case review involve child who have die or suffer serious harm because of abuse and neglect . those child be not in school at the time , under the proviso of receive an education at home . of the 41 serious case review , 23 of the child — over half — be previously know to child ' s social care , include be subject to a child protection plan prior to the incident . under clause 25 as it stand , such child would not be safeguard , which I be sure be not the Government ' s intention . I therefore urge the Minister to seriously consider amendment 173 as a proportionate and necessary safeguarding measure . as a member of the Bill Committee , I have have detailed oversight of the measure in the Bill . they be vital for safeguard child across the country , as well as support child and family with measure such as free breakfast club , reduce school uniform cost and extra support for kinship carer . I be thrilled that three school in my constituency have be choose to pilot free school breakfast club . they will put more money back in parent ' pocket and ensure that all child start the day right with a healthy meal . the Bill have be subject to healthy debate , both in this place and in Committee . it be a strong piece of legislation and one that have be strengthen through the parliamentary process . look through the amendment paper , I be interested to read new clause 1 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , on auto - enrolment for free school meal . parent have contact I who be eligible for free school meal but be find the application process difficult and be be pass between the school and the council . auto - enrolment would help those child and family get the support that they be entitle to from day one . it be important that child from all background have the same opportunity in life . I welcome measure aim at tackle inequality . I have speak about the inequality that arise from faith - base admission to school , where child be allocate school place base on the profess faith of their parent . I be pleased that the Government have confirm the 50 % cap on faith - base selection criterion for new academy and free school . faith - base school be show to be less diverse than their peer on a range of measure , include deprivation level — measure by free school meal — the number of child with special educational need and disability , and diversity of race and ethnicity compare with their local area . the evidence show clearly that faith selection be social selection by proxy . in my opinion , selection by faith have no place in taxpayer - fund school at all . the 50 % cap on faith selection be bring in the previous Labour Government to address inequality , and at least ensure some regulation of that . however , I be still concerned that new school open by local authority be not subject to the same cap . in case of oversubscription , they could allow 100 % faith - base admission . I have raise concern about this directly with the Minister , and I thank she for take the time to discuss it with I . I be pleased that the Bill take long - overdue action to tackle illegal school . at least 7 , 000 child attend illegal setting — for obvious reason , that be an estimate . Ofsted have be raise this problem for many year , because it do not have sufficient power of entry and investigation into illegal school . the Bill fix that , grant Ofsted increase power of entry and provide more power to bring criminal case against those school and the people who run they . member may not be aware of illegal school . they tend to be concentrate in specific local authority area . usually , they be run by religious group , which tend to be fundamentalist , extreme , highly controlling or isolationist in their outlook . we know from former pupil of these school that in many case they only study religious text and receive no other form of education . instead of have a broad and balanced education , child be subject to indoctrination . child attend illegal school have also be subject to abuse , both physical and sexual . that be unacceptable and such setting must be regulate . if they be unwilling to be regulate and offer a proper education , they must be shut down . I refer member to the contribution make by my hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) in last week ' s Crime and Policing Bill debate for a flavour of the attitude of high - control religious group towards report abuse within their own community . I also lie on record my thank to Humanists UK for its work expose the dreadful practice in illegal school over the past decade . I welcome this Labour Government ' s recognition of the severity of those problem and the swift action take to safeguard those vulnerable child . I also welcome future discussion on how to manage the problem of part - time setting . another key safeguarding measure in the Bill be the advancement of the regulation of home education . I have be contact by some constituent who be concerned about the new regulation regard home education . the vast majority be parent who have choose to home - educate their child due to failing within the school system , particularly for child with special educational need . I sympathise with those parent , and I have speak before about how delay in get education , health and care plan , alongside failure to implement those ehcp , mean that our child with SEND be suffer . I completely understand why some parent have take the decision to withdraw their child from a school where their need be not be meet . unfortunately , though , not all parent who remove their child from school be motivate in the same way or be provide a decent education . sadly , there be too many case where child who be class as home - educate be actually attend the illegal setting that I set out early , or be simply not receive any education at all . in the bad case , like that of Sara Sharif , we have see child remove from school in order to prevent detection of abuse . it be only with this Bill that that can be tackle . the introduction of register for child not in school be crucial in ensure that child do not fall through the net . do the hon . Lady accept that , in the tragic case of Sara Sharif , which my hon . friend the Member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) have be pursue , the murder happen in the school holiday and Sara be already know to social service ? there be not much evidence that the parent say they be go to home - educate in the first place . give all those fact , do the hon . Lady accept that there be actually no correlation in the datum between home - educate child and child who be ultimately judge to need a care plan ? I acknowledge the complexity of that case and that the absolutely unacceptable failing before Sara ' s death be abject across many organisation . however , she be remove from school partly so that her parent could prevent the detection of the abuse . I have recognise , and will continue to recognise , that that obviously do not speak to the vast majority of people who home - educate their child . however , as parliamentarian , we have a duty to protect the most vulnerable , and sometimes that include regulate the majority , who be decent , honest people . I want to reassure parent that the new regulation , such as register for child not in school and the capacity to compel school attendance in certain case , be not aim at limit home education as a whole or about police how people choose to educate . the intention be not the thing ; it be the actual impact that count . let we take the example of someone who have take their child out of school for the reason that the hon . Lady have mention . perhaps they have an autistic child who be miserable every day , and after letter to the headteacher and the local authority and failure after failure , they be force to go into home education . can she understand why parent be fearful of a representative of — as far as the parent be concern — that fail local authority have the right to enter their home and sit in judgment over the child that they have be force to home - educate ? can she understand why they would be fearful of the imposition a hard , top - down register , especially after so many year of successive government fail to provide any proper support for home educator ? I accept wholeheartedly the amount of parent of child , particularly with SEND , who have be absolutely fail by our system and by 14 year of Conservative Government . what I do not accept be that the proposal be somehow a major imposition . I do not believe that check that child be receive a decent education and be safe and well care for be a major imposition on parent , and I think all good parent would welcome that . these measure be be put in place to protect and safeguard vulnerable child . have no oversight of child not in school be an unacceptable risk to child ' s welfare . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill be crucial , and can not come too soon to protect our most vulnerable child and to support family up and down the country with rise cost . it have the welfare of child at its heart , and I be proud to have serve on the Bill Committee and to have play a role in shape this vital legislation . like vat on independent school and put up cost through national insurance contribution , this Bill be yet another example of Labour turn child ' s education into an ideological battleground . I have say it before , but I will say it again : Labour clearly hate any form of education that be not state - control , local authority - run schooling , and this Bill be another example of that . under the Conservatives , pupil soar up international league table , ensure that every child , regardless of postcode — except if they live in Wales — receive the good start in life . labour be intent on reverse that progress , attack academic freedom and dismantle a system that have deliver demonstrable result for young people . indeed , it be a system that Labour use to champion , but now it have come back to power and be look to dismantle it . Most of this Bill be try to solve a problem that do not exist . like the Employment Rights Bill last week , it be bodged and be rush through without proper scrutiny , and behind it all be the cold , dead hand of the union paymaster that fund Labour . I comment on it during debate on the Employment Rights Bill , and we have hear again today — I be afraid the hon . member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) have just leave his place — that the " Jurassic Park " of the union be back . like last week , it be not Jeff Goldblum — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will finish my analogy . it be not Jeff Goldblum who be go to be savage by the dinosaur ; it be our child . do the hon . Gentleman accept that my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r , to whom he refer and who have actually work in school as a teacher , might have a really good grasp of what happen in school ? it would be totally wrong of I to cast any aspersion on the hon . Gentleman ' s teaching ability . I have not sit through one of his class , but if it be anything like his speech an hour ago , I would perhaps be look to find some other educational outlet for myself or my child . while I acknowledge that some of the child protection aspect of this Bill be important , much of it represent a dangerous and unnecessary centralisation of power that will harm school , teacher and , most importantly , pupil . in recent meeting I have have with the last Wednesday SEND group , as well as with home education group across Surrey and Hampshire , there have be overwhelming concern about the propose legislation . many of those I have speak to feel vilify for choose to remove their child from mainstream education in favour of alternative specialised provision tailor to the individual need of their child . I will take this opportunity to highlight five key amendment that I think be particularly important ; I urge member to give they their full consideration . the first be amendment 206 , which would remove the requirement for all academy to follow the national curriculum . clearly , a national curriculum can provide a broad and balanced education , but education be not a one - size - fit - all issue . the Bill seek to stifle innovation , which be a dangerous and regressive move . it be particularly concern for faith school and alternative provision setting such as Pathways school , a SEND provision school in my constituency . pathway school play an invaluable role in educate vulnerable child and provide trauma - inform strategy alongside a high - quality , project - base curriculum . excellent space such as those would struggle to continue under state - impose education stricture . as a parent , I draw attention to new clause 41 , which would give parent the right to review school curriculum material to ensure their child be fairly expose to material appropriate for their age group . it be not controversial to say that parent have a unique and intimate understanding of their child ' s need , and it be only right that they have an active role in ensure the quality and suitability of their child ' s education . move on to amendment 200 and 202 regard home education , a key group in my constituency that have ardently oppose state - control education be the home educator . home education be a provision use by many parent across Farnham , Bordon , Haslemere and Liphook , because it provide a more personalised approach to learning , which in some case benefit certain child . amendment 200 would mandate local authority to submit a statement of reason when they do not agree that a child can be home - educate . family be deeply concerned that the Government ' s proposal impose excessive state control over home education , fail to recognise the dedication and care that home - educate parent provide . the hon . member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) say — I think I be quote she correctly — that " all good parent would welcome " this imposition on education . that be deeply unfair to all the good home - educate parent who have contact I . they do not feel that this be a proportionate measure ; they think it be a deep imposition , and they be good home - educator . amendment 200 be a more proportionate way to address concern while ensure the accountability that the hon . Lady want . that be especially important for family with SEND child await education , health and care plan — a process that can take up to two year . in my local area , 17 % of independent school pupil receive SEND support , yet only 6 % have a formal ehcp . therefore , home education , especially in that interim gap between realise a child need SEND support and receive an ehcp , be often the good option for they . amendment 202 would remove the requirement for local authority to approve and consent to the home education of child with special educational need . remove those bureaucratic hurdle would empower parent to make the good decision for their child and would ensure inclusivity and equity in education . I want to touch on amendment 192 on neglect and abuse of child that be relate to home education . although I strongly support home education as a valid choice , safeguarding must remain a priority . however , home - educate parent feel vilify by this Government , who treat they as if they be inherently suspect , as the hon . Lady do , rather than recognise their commitment to their child ' s education . amendment 192 would ensure that local authority may withhold consent for withdrawal from school where there be concern about neglect or abuse . the entire House be horrify by the tragic case of Sara Sharif , and the amendment be a necessary , balanced and proportionate response — far more so than the Government ' s broad proposal , which unfairly target responsible home - educate parent . instead of a sweeping punitive approach , the amendment focus directly on child who be genuinely at risk , ensure that they remain in a monitored environment where safeguard concern can be identify and address . the Bill be an ideological attack on academic freedom which will hurt the very child who labour claim to support . it impose unnecessary constraint on school , weaken parental choice and undermine educational innovation . the poor pupil will suffer the most . academic freedom have drive up standard , allow school to tailor their curriculum to meet the need of pupil . labour ' s insistence on enforce a rigid national curriculum will stifle progress and limit opportunity . its move to weaken the academy system will leave struggle school in limbo , harm the very child who need urgent intervention . the Bill tear down 25 year of progress — progress that have have a demonstrable impact on child , improve their educational outcome , life chance and business and employment opportunity , and benefit the country as a whole . I urge the House to reject this damage Bill and to stand up for the good interest of our child . let we protect parental right , uphold educational freedom and ensure that every child have access to safe , high - quality and inspirational education . I rise in support of new clause 23 , table in my name , which seek to extend mandatory relationship , sex and health education to all young people age 16 to 18 in further education , sixth form and apprenticeship setting . RSHE be currently compulsory only to the end of key stage 4 , when student be 16 year old , but young people remain in education or training until the age of 18 . that create a dangerous gap , in which thousand of young people be leave without the vital education they need to stay safe and informed during a crucial and vulnerable period of their life . government datum paint a stark picture . figure from the Office for National Statistics show that 16 to 19 - year - old experience the high rate of domestic abuse of any age group , with 8 % report incident in the past year . that be precisely the age when young people be begin to explore intimate relationship — a time when they need guidance on recognise coercive control , domestic abuse and harmful behaviour . we all know the tragic consequence of ignore that gap . the recent case of Kyle Clifford , who murder Carol , Louise and Hannah Hunt after reportedly be influence by the misogynistic view of Andrew Tate , remind we that toxic narrative can take root when young people be unable to access to reliable and positive education about healthy relationship and respect . that topic have also be powerfully explore in the new Netflix series " Adolescence " by Stephen Graham , which address the impact of misogynistic and harmful ideology , particularly among vulnerable young people . the series , which I recommend to everyone , highlight how a lack of proper education in relationship and self - worth can leave young people susceptible to dangerous and control behaviour . put simply , we can not allow harmful voice to fill the vacuum that education should occupy . education be not just important ; it be lifesave . provide young people with clear lesson on consent , coercive control and domestic abuse would give they the tool to identify harmful behaviour and seek help when they need it . without that , we leave young people across the country vulnerable to manipulation , abuse and harm . survivor have bravely share their story , illustrate the tragic cost of inaction . Faustine Petron , a survivor who found the " make it mandatory " campaign , have speak powerfully about how education could have change her life . have experience domestic abuse at just 16 , she say : " if I have receive mandatory education on healthy relationship and coercive control in sixth form , I truly believe I would have recognise the sign of abuse early and seek support — before it escalate into four year of serious violence . those be year I can never get back . year when I should have just be a child . " another parent who support the 100 , 000 - strong online petition share their heartbreak : " my daughter end her life in January 2022 , age 21 , because she be in a coercive and control relationship and be abuse on every level . the perpetrator be the boy she meet at school and have know since she be 12 year old . " and another signatory say : " I wish I ' d know about coercive control at 16 when I enter an abusive relationship and stay in it for 9 year . I think that because there be no physical violence , it couldn ' t be abuse . teenager need educate about this . " those story be not isolate . report from the " everyone ' s Invited " platform highlight that 142 further education and sixth - form college in England be name in testimony of sexual violence . those shocking account demand urgent action . new clause 23 have broad support . the Women and Equalities Committee recommend such a change in 2023 . the chief medical officer , the Children ' s Commissioner and organisation such as Brook , the end violence against Women Coalition and the Sex Education Forum have all call for RSHE to be extend to 16 - to - 18 education provider . ultimately , the new clause be a matter of prevention and protection . it be about give young people the tool to identify unhealthy relationship , to know where to turn for help , and to foster respect and understanding in their personal life . by extend RSHE to all young people in education until the age of 18 , we can save life , prevent harm and build a safe society for everyone . that be not just the right thing to do ; it be the necessary thing to do . I urge member from across the House to support my new clause , as well as new clause 34 in the name of the hon . member for Waveney Valley ( Adrian Ramsay ) , which would extend free school meal to all primary school pupil — a campaign that I , alongside other Labour Members , have proudly support for a long time . it be up to we to ensure that no young person be leave behind without the necessary education and food that they need to stay safe , healthy and empower . I must confess I be worried about the Education Secretary and her future employment prospect . she may share the confusion of the public and wonder whether the Prime Minister be a socialist or a pragmatist , a tax - and - spend lefty or a quango cutter , a human right lawyer or a war leader , but Education Ministers seem to have miss the late McSweeney memo . while the reformer in the Department for Work and Pensions say she want to get people off welfare and into work , and the reformer in the Department of Health and Social Care hold up school reform and academy as the model for his change to the NHS , the luddite in the Education Department be take a hammer to the machinery that have make english school the good in the west . this Bill — along with the curriculum review , a weakened Ofsted , the threat to SATs in primary school , the end of free school and weak discipline policy — undo decade of hard - win reform and high standard . it should be obvious that the objective for our school system be high standard . of course , Ministers pay lip service to that idea , but their action belie their word , not just with this Bill but with the appointment of an academic to run the curriculum review who have criticise past government ' " obsession with academic achievement . " standard improve through the year of school reform because government put their trust in head and teacher , parent , and the philanthropist and public servant who sponsor free school and academy . we follow what we understand from neurological science and research about how child learn , from work on cultural literacy to the knowledge that high - level skill be dependent on the automatic mastery of low - level activity . we turn to synthetic phonic , math mastery , a knowledge - rich curriculum , teacher - lead instruction and traditional academic subject , and watch pupil fly . when I compare my own education with what my child be teach today , the difference be truly staggering , and yet this Government want to go back to the fail policy of the past and the fail policy that continue to this day in Scotland and Wales , where standard be sadly far low than in England . we know why : this disastrous journey back be what the union demand , and it be what those on the left , in their heart , really want . we hear Labour mps on Second Reading explicitly reject the very concept of academy and demand state - run school . some 80 % of secondary school be now academy . Ofsted say that 87 % of they be good or outstanding , even though many be previously fail school that be make academy to turn they around under new leadership . this intervention have be prove to work . academy freedom have give head the space to make bad school good . accord to the fairer school index , which take both academic achievement and socioeconomic background into account , the top five state school in England be all academy : Steiner academy Hereford , Michaela community school , Mercia school , Eden boy ' school , and Eden girl ' leadership academy . Multi - academy trust have achieve Progress 8 score far above the national average , with trust such as the Harris Federation , United Learning , Star Academies , Delta Academies Trust and Ark all perform strongly . the Government ' s disregard for evidence with the Bill have provoke massive anger among school leader . the Children ' s Commissioner have say that the Government be " legislate against the thing we know work in school " . Katharine Birbalsingh , the headteacher at Michaela , have call the Bill " catastrophic " . Sir Dan Moynihan , ceo of the Harris Federation , simply ask : " why be we do this ? " – – [ Official Report , child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Public Bill Committee , 21 January 2025 ; c . 75 , q160 . ] [ interruption ] if the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) would like to intervene , he may . I want to say something about the Bill ' s most damaging measure , start with clause 42 , which make the national curriculum compulsory for all academy . today , the interim report of the curriculum and assessment review have be publish . just as predict , the review endorse the Education Secretary ' s demand for a curriculum that prioritise non - academic subject over traditional subject such as the science and geography . indeed the review throw into doubt the future of the EBacc , which ensure a proper focus on core academic subject . while there be value to non - academic discipline , of course , there be only so much time in the school day . teacher will lose the ability to prioritise what they teach , as well as how , and child risk get less time in which to learn reading , writing and numeracy skill to an advanced level . evidence show that academy , such as the Laurus Trust , have already find a good balance between academic rigour and extracurricular activity . the Education Policy Institute find that the Laurus Trust ' s extracurricular programme lead to an attainment 8 score be 6 . 2 point high among current pupil than for pupil who attend before the programme begin . the point be the trust have the freedom to decide the focus of its extracurricular work . centralised control over the curriculum will also undermine school ethos and character . for example , Marine Academy Plymouth have tailor its curriculum around the city ' s maritime history and relationship with the sea , and we should be encourage innovation , not conformity — or " consistency " as I hear Ministers euphemistically call it . clause 41 , 46 and 47 remove flexibility over teacher qualification , pay , and condition , but give academy freedom over how they recruit , train , and develop staff have lead to impressive result . Michaela hire teacher with little or no experience but then give they training base on its own ethos . Dixons Trinity Academy and King ' s Leadership Academy have do similar . and the Government be not extend the requirement in clause 41 to recruit QTS — qualified teacher status — teacher to further education , university technical college , studio school , non - maintain school , and early year provision , so why impose it on academy ? I share the concern express early by my hon . friend the Member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) regard clause 50 . this new amendment will give local authority the power to overrule headteacher and block school expansion and even mandate the number of pupil attend an academy . this would give local politician the power to starve academy of pupil and promote their prefer locally control school . this would cut some school budget and could even lead to closure . instead of let parent decide which school thrive , this be a return to fail command - and - control statism . as roll number fall , clause 50 will put huge power into the hand of often very ideological politician , and for those who doubt this danger , those of we who work with free school founder know the game council have play with land hurriedly sell and planning application refuse to stop new school opening . a couple of month ago in this House the Prime Minister call academy a Labour achievement . he say : " academy be here to stay , and will continue to drive up standard . that be what the Bill be about . " — [ Official Report , 22 January 2025 ; Vol . 760 , c . 998 . ] but if he really mean that , I honestly wonder whether he have read , or understand , the Bill at all . I be afraid the Education Secretary and her team , however , know exactly what they be do . their ideology blind they to evidence and leave they deaf to advice from those who know what they be talk about . this be why Ministers can not admit the success of english school in the PISA and TIMSS international ranking . indicate dissent . the Minister give I a frown but she can intervene and admit the success of english school in those ranking if she wish . it be why , when Michaela be once again select — [ interruption . ] would the Minister like to intervene ? no , apparently not . it be why , when Michaela be once again the well - rank school in the country for progress , the Secretary of State could not bring herself even to congratulate Katherine Birbalsingh when I invite she to do so from these Benches . it be why the Education Secretary ' s special adviser brief the newspaper that Ms Birbalsingh be a liar , and why he brief the newspaper against Amanda Spielman , former head of Ofsted , attack she very personally as a " failure " and a Conservative . as Margaret Thatcher , not just a former Prime Minister but a former Education Secretary , once say : " if they attack you personally , it mean they have not a single political argument leave . " and this be the truth : the Education Secretary do not have a single political argument for this disgraceful act of policy vandalism , but she be determined to ignore those who know well than she and push on . and the people who lose out , I be afraid , will be the child , from ordinary working family the length and breadth of the country , deny the good we can give they , unaware that a well and bright future have be steal from they thank to nothing more than vindictive left - wing dogma . it be an absolute pleasure to speak in support of the Bill , which deliver on the Government ' s mission to break down barrier to opportunity . the Bill will drive high and rise standard in school , cut the cost of send child to school for my constituent and make life easy for family in my area . its landmark reform to safeguarding and child ' s social care will stop child from fall through the crack . I speak in favour of the Bill on Second Reading in January , and I be pleased that the element of the Bill that I speak about then have not be substantially amend . first , the Bill , as amend , still provide for a profit cap , enable the Secretary of State to cap the profit of non - local - authority , Ofsted - register provider of child ' s home , foster agency and support accommodation . secondly , I particularly welcome the introduction of free breakfast club in every primary school . I note that in Committee , the Government propose amendment 6 , but that amendment be technical in nature , and the Bill will effectively make the same provision as the original draft do . the clause relate to breakfast club in the Bill , as amend , have be and will be warmly welcome by my constituent in Mansfield for many reason — not just because it will save family up to £ 450 a year , but because evidence show that provide a healthy breakfast at the start of the school day can contribute to improved readiness to learn , increase concentration and improve wellbeing and behaviour . I be pleased that we be waste no time in roll out free breakfast club in primary school . two school in Mansfield have be choose to be among the first school to trial the free breakfast club programme : St Peter ' s Church of England primary academy in Mansfield and Holly primary school in Forest Town . I welcome that announcement , and I be pleased that Mansfield school be part of the trial that will allow the Government to monitor what work and what need correct , before wide roll - out across England . the Government have make it clear that one of our top priority be invest the in next generation to break down the cycle of poverty that hold our nation ' s progress back . the Bill clearly drive home Labour ' s mission to break down barrier to opportunity , and I will vote for it proudly , on behalf of all those child and family in Mansfield and across the country who will benefit from its measure . I be grateful to be call to speak in the debate . it have be an honour to be a member of the Bill Committee . over many day , we consider the Bill in detail , provide line - by - line scrutiny . today , there be many amendment before we , many of which I support , and there be important issue to discuss , include elective home education . my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) make some excellent point , and the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) also make important point . it be important that we discuss the breakfast club provision . in principle , school provide breakfast to child be a good thing — why not ? — but as we get close to implementation , colleague on the Labour Benches may find themselves get more mail from headteacher in their constituency , note that the Government say that the pilot scheme will save parent £ 450 per child , but the amount of money that the Government be give to school go down as low as £ 114 per child . that be clearly quite a gap for school to make up , and we will see how they intend to do that . we have some good debate on uniform in Committee . I gently say to Labour colleague that if they think the change in uniform will automatically result in the cost of send child to school go down — because everybody will go to Asda and get unbranded clothing , so there will be no pester power or fashion competition when it come to sportswear , for example — next time they do a school visit , they should go to a PE lesson and look down at the child ' s foot . if they can not make it to a PE lesson , just wait for the end of the school day , stay at the school gate and look at the child ' s bag . it be not automatically the case that not have uniform item for sport , for example , make thing cheap . I also hope that at some point during the passage of this legislation , the Government will get rid of the bizarre anomaly by which they say it be all right to have a school tie as an additional logoed or brand item in a secondary school , but not in a primary school , for some reason . there be also important new clause for we to consider — on free school meal auto - enrolment , for example . we have that discussion this morning in Westminster Hall with the Minister for early education , the hon . member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) . historically , there have be barrier to auto - enrolment for free school meal to do with IT system and the legal basis for such a measure . the IT system issue be melt away as technology improve , and I hope that the Government will look at that seriously . if I be to comment on every clause with which I have an issue , or every amendment on which I have an opinion , I would stretch even your famed patience , Madam Deputy Speaker . instead , I propose take a step back . what we be debate be more than just the 84 page of part 2 and 3 of the Bill , or the 62 page of amendment . this be really about the soul and direction of education in England . as other colleague have mention , this new Government have a very solid base on which to build when it come to attainment in England ; we have the good primary school reader in the western world — yes , that bear repeat . under the last government , at secondary school , we go from 27th to 11th in mathematic , and from 25th to 13th in read . child on free school meal become 50 % more likely to go to university . that be the record of the last 14 year . it be not the record of the 13 year before that , when we go down the international comparison table . there be stand - out reformer in new Labour , and I pay tribute to they , start with Sir Tony Blair and his famous epizeuxis , " education , education , education . " there be also the noble Lord Blunkett , Lord Adonis and other , but they be always swim against the tide from the left of politic and the Labour party to push through reform . we should not exaggerate how much be achieve by the end of the last Labour Government . there be a couple of hundred academy , as oppose to many thousand today . what happen between 2010 and 2024 be not all about academy — far from it . it be really about brilliant teacher — that be always where it start and finish in education — in an ecosystem that value high standard and high quality . crucially , it be about the combination of autonomy and accountability for school , a knowledge - rich curriculum , and prove method , such as synthetic phonic and math mastery . it be about school learn from each other , both in the hub - and - speak network across the country and in academy trust , which become the primary vehicle for school improvement . that improvement also need diversity and parental choice , as my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness , who be on my left — spatially — point out . that start with clear information and know how child be do at school . there be a time , for many decade in this country — go back way before the new labour reform , by the way — when nobody know how many child be just be let down by school . we take that provision of clear information far , of course — as do the Blair reform — with clear Ofsted judgment that anybody could access readily , but also much long judgment that could be read by anybody who could read . we do not talk nearly enough about Progress 8 — it be so much well than the measure that we use to have — either on raw GCSE attainment or the contextual value - add measure of the labour year . we also know that if we be to have choice , there need to be spare capacity in the system . remarkably , in spite of the fact that there be a known demographic need , in the year up to 2010 , the previous Labour Government cut school place by a six - figure number ; we add 1 . 2 million more . we also make the diversity of academy and free school happen , and welcome it . my right hon . friend have refer not only to the previous Government , but to the new Labour Government before that . do he share my concern , and perhaps my confusion ? I think there be consensus on the huge benefit of academy , which be bring in by new Labour and advanced by the previous Conservative Government , but this Government seem to be rip up that consensus through this Bill . my hon . friend be certainly right that over the year , there have be many brilliant , far - sight people in the Labour party who have overlook their political tradition and say , " we must just do what be good for the child . " I do not think there have ever be a universally accept consensus on academy ; until very recently , there have be group actively organise against school become academy , with lead member of the Labour party involve in those movement . there have always be a strand , which turn out to be wide than we realise , of the Labour party that believe that unless there be control from the top , through council , and unless school be tell what to do , the system be inconsistent . some consistency in education be very important , but that be not the same as uniformity , and certainly not the same as top - down control . it turn out that Government Ministers do not want transparency and choice . they do not want diversity . in particular , they seem to want to curtail the improvement in school performance that have be make possible through academy trust . the Government have already stop new free school . this Bill can not only stop academy grow in size , but can stop they stay the same size , even if they be popular with parent . we all know that the Bill erode freedom , start with the qualified teacher status requirement . it be not as if school be go around willy - nilly , recruit people without qualification off the street . they be not put card up in Tesco say , " apply now to teach , no prior experience or qualification require " — of course they be not . equally , though , a headteacher who be try to do the good for his or her school and its child might have a reason to bring in somebody from a profession . they might want to bring in somebody with a sport background , somebody from the private sector , or somebody from another country to help with their school ' s language programme , but no , we do not trust headteacher to make those decision . we have to write something into legislation to stop they do that . turn to the national curriculum , again , it be not as if school be go around willy - nilly say , " we ' re not go to teach child English , math , geography and history . we ' re just go to make it all up . " in fact , Ofsted - inspect school — which all state school be — can not do that , because they be judge on have a broad and balanced curriculum . the quick way to achieve that be to follow the national curriculum , but there be school that want to innovate and to deviate somewhat from the national curriculum . we see no harm in that , so long as those school maintain that breadth and balance . it have be say by a few colleague that it seem to put the cart before the horse to say that all school must follow the national curriculum rigidly before we have the outcome of the review . just a few hour ago , we have a publication connect to the review , but not the final report . it be beside the point , however , because whatever the review come up with — on which we must wait and see — the Government be not oblige to adopt it and could adopt something else . even if they do adopt it , this Government or any subsequent Government could decide to do something different . have the ability for school to deviate somewhat give we a safety valve against the over - politicisation of school and what be teach in the curriculum . it also give some reassurance to faith school and parent . have my right hon . friend see Tim Leunig ' s article in Schools Week talk about Ofsted ' s new report card system follow the labour manifesto commitment ? one danger be that , if my right hon . friend be right and we see a reduction in standard , the Bill could switch off the light that allow we to see that , because " reliability and validity be in tension " , as Tim Leunig put it . do my right hon . friend share my concern that Ofsted must ensure that it continue to put a bright and reliable light on the education system , so that we can see whether the policy in this Bill work ? I do , and my right hon . friend give I two valuable opportunity . the first be to pay tribute to the great Tim Leunig . we do not often talk about he in this House . he have friend here , and he be a perceptive thinker . I will look up his article . the other opportunity that my right hon . friend give I be to highlight the discrepancy we can get when thing appear to be get well , when in fact they be not . that be what happen under the last Labour Government when , in spite of we fall down the international comparison , they manage to find 11 different way in the system to make it look like our GCSE result be improve year after year . we do not want that to happen again . there be those champion in the new labour year who make these great reform happen and would want to continue they now , so I say to those on the government Benches : where be the champion today ? where be those in the modern Labour party who will say , " no , we will not be bind by ideology . we be go to do what be in the good interest of the child " ? I hope there will be some of those champion in the other place . to be fair , I be mildly encourage this morning to hear the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , when question on the radio about the fate of this Bill , appear to be somewhat open - minded , shall we say , about what might happen . to be fair , I have even be slightly encourage listen to the Secretary of State for Education in recent day and week . she have sound like she might be a little bit open to row back from some of the bad excess of this legislation . there be still time . there will be week of this legislation be consider in the other place , so I just ask the Government to please take that time to think carefully about the legacy they will be leave and to turn those word into deed . I thank the Ministers for their contribution . it be an honour to have an opportunity to speak on behalf of my constituent and my former colleague in the teaching profession on the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . quality of teaching be the single big driver of standard in school . the Bill will ensure that all teacher have or be work towards qualified teacher status . as a former teacher , I welcome that . it be fair to say from the chuntering I have be do from this Bench that I feel passionately about education . I find it difficult , listen to Opposition Members — I recognise that they generally care passionately about education , but sadly my experience of teaching under their government be different from how they describe it . I once again ask the Minister to recognise that she be inherit a workforce in the education system that be absolutely at rock bottom . let I stress , however — I want to make this clear to conservative Members — that I put the wellbeing and education of child above any politic . when I talk about the education of young people , I talk not just about examination but what be describe in the teaching profession as the hidden curriculum : important life skill . indeed , I become quite animate when a month ago , on this very spot , I speak in a debate about the importance of financial education . as I have say , for I a well - qualified teacher be one who still take a joy in education that have not be suck out of he by the endless barrage of comment in the press , and , I must add , a revolving door of Conservative Education Secretaries , although I should offer an olive branch to the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) — [ interruption . ] I be about to say something nice about the right hon . Gentleman . carry on , then ! I be go to say that he be probably one of the well one . I should also recognise , as should we all , that the young people who be go through the education system now have be impact negatively by something even bad than a Conservative Government , namely the terrible pandemic . we know that they be less resilient . we also know that more and more young people be have to be carer for their parent and other family member and love one . member will be aware that I be very passionate about this subject , and I thank the Minister and other member for attend and contribute to my Westminster Hall debate on it last Thursday . on average , young carer be likely to miss more school than their peer , and I welcome the proposal in the Bill to record absence to ensure that no young people fall through the gap , include those who be home educate . I say early that I do not want to be too political about this . I go through the education process and become a teacher because of Sir Tony Blair ' s remark about " education , education , education " . when he say that teaching be a valuable and noble profession , I think , " he ' s right : it be . " the former Member of Parliament for Surrey Heath do not put it in quite the same way when he say that most teacher be let young people down . I want to say something about reform , and to move away from the ideological politic of reform . sometimes reform be good , sometimes it be bad , and sometimes good reform be bad because of the way in which it be implement . as a former teacher , I can assure the House that tell a student that they be not do a very good job do not make they do a well job . when we be consider reform in education , it be hugely important that we take educationist , teacher and support staff along with we , and that , I be afraid , be something that I do not think the last Government do . I believe that the Bill return we to the original purpose of academy : to share good practice and encourage collaboration in the good interest of child . I be tell that I must talk about the amendment and new clause , so let I briefly speak in support of Government amendment 156 , which focus on the importance of ensure that every school be run by a " fit and proper person " , which I think we would all agree be a no - brainer . I also want to refer to — I can not find the right page in my speech — will my hon . friend accept an intervention ? I will ! at several point today , we have be transport by Conservative Members to the educational nirvana that supposedly exist under the Tory Government . that be not the memory I have , or the memory that many parent and child have . they , I think , remember the real - term funding cut that happen for much of the last 14 year , increase class size , the million of day lose to industrial action by union who be feed up with the hector nature of previous conservative Governments , and the 11 % of child who be go hungry compare with the 8 % OECD average . PISA ranking be all very well and good , but PISA score be go down ; they be just not go down as fast as those in other country . I thank my hon . friend for paint a well picture than the one paint by Conservative Members . shortly after the election , in August , I meet a couple of former teacher colleague who be still in the profession , and they just look broken . it be really difficult to see , because they have be math teacher for a long period of time . when I first become a teacher , they inspire I to persevere , to reflect on the bad day and to have well lesson . to see they so feed up and so disenchanted with be a teacher be really difficult , and we have to change that . I emphasise again to the Minister that it be really important that we ensure that we support teacher ' mental health . I be go to intervene on the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) to ask he whether he recognise that happy and support teacher lead to happy and support young people , which be really important . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not . I will briefly mention Government amendment 166 and 167 , which talk about data protection never get in the way of safeguarding . one of my most difficult day as a teacher — the House will be pleased to know that it have nothing to do with the Conservative Government — be when a young person in my class come to I at the end of a lesson and say those terrible word that every teacher dread : " I need to tell you something . " despite my explaining to she that it could not be confidential , she make a disclosure — I will not go into it , obviously — and then beg I not to tell anyone , which be not an option for teacher or anyone in a similar position . it be heartbreaking to see how upset she be , but I report it in the correct and proper way . clearly , safeguarding be really important , and all professional — not just those in education — who work with young people take it very seriously . general data protection regulation , or myth about GDPR and data sharing , should not get in the way of ensure that our young people be safe in education and outside it . I will finish on a light note , because I appreciate that I have get a little bit deep . the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) discuss the educational merit of have an ice cream . I say to he that 1 / 3 π r2h be the volume of a cone . I thank the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) for school I in math — I be not very good at that . I begin by express my strong support for the Bill , particularly its effort to enhance child protection and ensure well collaboration between professional involve in child ' s care . I welcome the measure in part 2 that seek to harmonise admission and provide cost of live support for family , especially those from deprive background . parent whose child be in state - fund education deserve transparency . they should have access to clear information about their child ' s education and be assure that school and trust be operate fairly , and I look forward to measure come forward that be not in the Bill but which will really make a difference for child , such as the child poverty strategy , the SEND review and the curriculum review . however , there be one part of this Bill that I believe need to be amend : the level of unnecessary scrutiny that be be impose on parent who choose to home - educate their child . rather than protect they , element of the propose register risk put such family in danger . let I be clear : I support the principle of the register . as corporate parent , local authority need to know where child be if they be not attend school . collect some information and the reason for elective home education be important , not only for child protection but so that authority can plan for the future . we know that some child who be home - educate later return to school , and many parent make this choice because local education provision do not meet their child ' s need , either temporarily or permanently . that present an opportunity for local authority and multi - academy trust to work collaboratively with family to ensure that curricula and school offering be inclusive of their need . however , propose new section 436C of the Education Act 1996 , which govern the content and maintenance of the home education register , contain provision that could have serious unintended safeguarding consequence , as suggest by the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) . under propose new section 434A , in clause 25 , the local authority must serve notice to both parent " unless exceptional circumstance apply " — for instance , in case of domestic abuse or family estrangement . yet propose new section 436C , in clause 26 , require the register to include the name and home address of the child , both parent ' name and address , and the address of all place where education take place . crucially , there be no provision for exception in case where share this information could put child at risk . one of my constituent , whose name I will protect for obvious reason , tell I : " since 2018 , I have manage to keep my home address private from my ex partner . throughout the case " — a court case — " I be support in keep my address private and it be not include in any document he be give access to . . . this register would hand he our home address . it would hand he detail of my new relationship . the name and address of my new partner ' s parent who will be support I . . . it would hand he the address of every activity she " — her child — " attend . this proposed register essentially hand he motivation , evidence , licence and opportunity to continue his coercive control behaviour " . she go on : " currently we be safe . she ' s know in our home ed community . she be not hide or miss education . this Bill will put she in danger . it will put I in danger . it will put my baby with my new partner in danger . the current provision of this bill will not increase our safety and I have no doubt that there be hundred of other mother in the same position across the country . " that be chilling , indeed . to address it , amendment 175 in my name would provide the same safeguarding expectation as be already present in propose new section 434A , remove the requirement to provide sensitive information where there be a known risk to a child . I be also concerned about the excessive reporting requirement for the register — other than the reference to ice cream . while basic information be useful for future planning , propose new section 463C ( 1 ) ( e ) go much far , require the detail of all individual involve and a full list of all activity . that not only place an unrealistic burden on family , but be impractical for local authority to manage . if we break down what be be ask for , it would mean that parent must report a neighbour who teach their child to cook or sew and a local farmer who introduce their child to the environment through hand - on experience , as well as swimming lesson , museum visit and even regular nature outing with other home - educate family . in that vein , do my hon . friend accept that , as I mention , grandparent read to their grandchild could be consider as provide home education and should be inspect and report on , and vital home education group provide service free of charge could be drive out of business by the scale and weight of report they will have to provide ? I think a lot of people who do not know anything about home education miss the fact that there be a whole community of home educator , and home - educate child spend plenty of time with their peer , but they be just different peer — other who prefer to have their education outside a school environment — and there be a risk of such organisation be drive underground or lose altogether . under section 7 of the Education Act 1996 , parent already have a duty to ensure that their child receive a suitable education , whether through school or otherwise , and local authority can already conduct informal inquire and issue school attendance order if they believe a child be not receive an appropriate education , so this be simply overkill . a formal register would help to ensure accountability , but this be overreach . my amendment 221 propose a more practical solution of require only those who provide more than six hour per week of education or activity to be include in the register . that strike a reasonable balance by ensure that key educator be identify without overwhelming family or local authority . while there be genuine safeguard concern , local authority already have the power to intervene under section 47 of the Children Act 1989 . the Victoria Climbi é Foundation state that the provision propose in the Bill would have do nothing to help Sara Sharif because the local authority have already decide that the child be not at risk . I hope colleague in the other place will follow up on the hon . Lady ' s excellent speech . to focus in on that point , if a register do go ahead — the hon . Lady support that ; I do not — it should start with the minimum requirement , and then it could be expand if that be need , rather than be spread out in this way . to reinforce the point she make , local authority already have the power to intervene if it appear to they that someone be not have a suitable education , and they have all the power require if there be concern about welfare . conflate welfare and education in the way this Bill do particularly irritate and upset home educator . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . in fact , Kathryn from my constituency write I a very long email talk about welfare versus education — two totally separate issue . People be really upset and would have be devastate and distraught to hear the hon . member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) effectively make they feel like they be some sort of pariah . I be really upset to hear that , especially as I ask home educator in my constituency to listen to the debate and give I their feedback . I support amendment 195 and 197 , table by the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , which seek clarity that educational activity outside regular school term should not be subject to this overreach . my child be not subject to they , and child in home education should not be subject to anything more than the rest of we . child receive education out of school should have the same right to take their public examination as their peer . it should not be base on a parent ' s ability to fund that . after all , the Treasury already save many thousand of pound for every home - educate child . new clause 53 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , would provide support for parent by provide for home - educate child to sit any relevant examination and to be fully fund where request . I thank the Minister for confirmation on one point : as I sit here this afternoon , I receive a letter to say that the challenge face by summer - bear child will now be consider . I would like to pass on the thank — [ interruption . ] well , I ' ll save the rest of it for you . I be not go to speak about academy , but as I sit here over several hour I receive two more email relate , in particular , to concern about their governance . I hear the challenge from those on the Conservative Benches about the comment by the hon . member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) on teacher , but I can not tell the House how many time I hear complaint about the way staff and whistleblower be be treat in multi - academy trust . while I have sit here today , I have hear of another who have be suspend by a multi - academy trust . this be not about they get well treatment ; it be about they get bad treatment . if teacher be treat badly and leave the sector , that have an impact on our child . it be about the child , not just the teacher . in summary , I support the principle of the Bill , but I urge the Government to consider the amendment on excessive and potentially harmful requirement impose on home - educate child . they be common sense amendment that would allow child to be protect without place undue burden on family . I rise in support of the Bill and in support of the amendment that seek to increase access to free school meal , a policy that would make a world of difference to the one in two child live in poverty in my constituency , the most deprive in the country . I also want to pay tribute to the amazing teacher in all the school in Liverpool Riverside who go above and beyond every single day , not only for the child but for their parent . research last summer show that nearly one in five household with child be suffer from food insecurity . that be make bad by cruel and punitive policy , such as the two - child cap on benefit . universal free school meal would go a huge way towards immediately alleviate the pressure that these family be face . in the sixth rich country in the world , no child should go to school hungry and all child should be support to achieve their full potential . some 47 % of child in my constituency now live in poverty . if those child live in London , Scotland or Wales , they would have access to universal free school meal at primary school . however , because they live in Liverpool , many be force to learn on an empty stomach . that be indefensible and unfair . the Government should take the opportunity present by the Bill to put an end to that postcode lottery and extend free school meal for all so that no child go hungry and no child be leave behind . the evidence be clear : the impact of universal free school meal be life change . research have find that they ease the financial burden on family , help child to focus in class , reduce stigma and foster strong school community . they far outstrip other policy in all those area , include breakfast club and mean - test free school meal scheme . teacher in my constituency have tell I about the devastating reality that they see every single day , with child come to school unable to buy lunch and unable to concentrate or learn properly . no matter how bright a child be or how amazing a teacher be , hungry child can not learn . the problem be not just who qualify for free school meal , but how many eligible child be miss out . up to 250 , 000 child who should be receive free school meal be not , due to a system that be inefficient , overly complex and burdensome for parent and school alike . family struggle with complicated registration form , language barrier and a lack of awareness , with some parent avoid apply due to stigma or embarrassment . the income threshold of £ 7 , 500 be incredibly low and have not rise for many year , and too many family live below the breadline be ineligible to access the support they need . this desperately need to change . provide free school meal would not only guarantee at least one hot meal per day , but ease the financial burden on struggle family by save they approximately £ 500 per child per year . study show that few than 2 % of pack lunch meet school food standard , whereas a hot school meal ensure that child receive the nutrition they need to grow , concentrate and succeed . research have show that well - feed child perform well academically . early finding suggest that child from non - white community or single - parent household be disproportionately unregistered for free school meal , despite be entitle to they . we should also see this policy as an investment in our future . universal free school meal be prove to tackle health and educational inequality , provide a long - term boost for our economic productivity and alleviate pressure on our healthcare system . if we choose today to spend the money and roll out universal free school meal to all child at primary school , for every £ 1 we spend , we will generate £ 1 . 71 in core benefit return — it be a no - brainer . we must put an end to the economically illiterate model of arbitrary fiscal rule and recognise what the evidence show : invest in our child ' s future be a sensible financial choice , as well as a just one . after 14 year of Tory austerity , skyrocket inequality and the last effect of the pandemic , now be the time for bold action . if this government be truly committed to raise the healthy generation of child ever , we must start by fund universal and nutritious free school meal for all . we have an opportunity to end the scandal of child hunger in our school and give every child the foundation they need to learn and thrive . I call on the Government to get behind these new clause and amendment today so that no child in this country be leave hungry , and no child be leave behind . I rise today in support of amendment 27 and 43 and new clause 1 , as propose by the Chair of the Education Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) . I agree with she , because the truth of my experience in education over the past 20 year be far different from the experience and view that we hear from those on the Opposition Benches . at this point , I must refer to my entry on the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and to my partner ' s interest . in a previous life , I raise a motion at North Warwickshire borough council to convene a multi - agency meeting to tackle knife crime in our school . in one school , 17 sharp have be find in a school bag in a search that I be tell see school " bouncer " — large man in black suit and tie — strip through student ' bag and remove sanitary product from girl ' bag in public corridor . I appreciate that we need strong measure on knife in school , but what really baffle I , and the reason why we move a motion at the council , be that there be no police involvement , no oversight and no accountability from school authority . at that time , the school also have one of the high rate for exclusion and persistent absenteeism in the country . it be not hard to understand the link . a friend of mine — I will call she Rosie — go to the school and be thrive . she attend regularly and be get on well . she be then threaten by a classmate with one of these sharp . the culprit be exclude for three day and then put back in the same class as Rosie . unsurprisingly , she be quite uncomfortable with the school ' s decision . there be no accountability and no change be make by the school . how on earth can a child be expect to focus on their learning when they be scared for their own safety ? we teach child from two year of age to listen to their instinct , and that if thing feel wrong or unsafe , they probably be . when Rosie become too anxious to attend school , thing escalate . follow an attempt to take her own life , a supportive plan be put in place by the school , but the mother be threaten with fine and penalty if Rosie do not engage with the school ' s plan . rosie ' s mum be force into make an impossible choice between potentially put her daughter in harm or pay a fine that she could ill afford . one day , we manage to get Rosie into school . we have reassure , coax , support , bribe and perhaps even coerce she to go to school that day . an hour later , she be send home in a taxi for a minor uniform violation . she do not go back to that setting . as a teacher with 20 year at the chalkface , I welcome many of the move to improve attendance at our school , but there be well way than fine and penalty . in a case where a 14 - year - old girl would rather die than attend her school , there be clearly other issue that need to be address . the positive impact of good attendance in our school have drastic lifelong implication , but our school must be make safe . they need to be the solution , not part of the problem . they should provide support for child face challenge . I welcome the phrase , " when it be in their good interest " , but I hope that , in decide what that be , the voice of the family will be hear . there be a number of family whose child be not in education and remain at home — like Rosie . a considerable number be home - educate and they tell I that that be because the school can not meet their need . I wish to speak to new clause 1 on auto - enrolment for school meal . this be not just about food , although healthy food be incredibly important , especially in area such as Camphill in Nuneaton where 40 % of child live in poverty . access to free school meal be a gateway to other support such as uniform grant and holiday hunger programme , but crucially , it give additional funding to school to provide pupil premium activity for child from low - income family . a disadvantaged child in Nuneaton be twice as likely not to achieve national average in English and math by the age of 11 . Pupil premium funding be design to be use not only to provide specific intervention , but to give child access to cultural capital that they can not afford at home . I have school in my constituency that have not be rate by Ofsted as " good " or well in more than a decade . I do not judge school by ofsted judgment alone , but a 50 % or low pass rate in English and math at GCSE be a damn indictment . that mean that another 50 % do not achieve the basic requirement that they need to enter into further education . that be a generation of child deliver to the world of work under - skilled and underprepared . this Bill be the start of our journey to protect and uplift education for the child in my constituency . the Bill will strengthen the role of family and educator in child protection team , improve information sharing between partner , provide cheap , more accessible school uniform and require academy to make provision for improve behavioural standard , so that situation such as the one I have explain will never happen again . it should provide safe learning space with the ability to step in early when situation be fail to meet our high expectation . the Bill have the potential to transform the educational offer in Nuneaton and truly to give our child their future back . I rise to speak to new clause 6 table by child ' s food champion , my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) , and to amendment 212 to 220 in my name . I also put on record my support for new clause 1 table by my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , new clause 7 table by the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) and new clause 49 table by my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) . it will come as no surprise that I be also a fan of new clause 34 because , thank to the last government , over 4 million child be in poverty , and I will always support anything that make their little life and that of their family more bearable . new clause 6 would introduce a much - need national monitoring system for school food . of course , school food standard already exist , but not all school be meet they . there be far too much variance . there be some brilliant example of heart - healthy , nutritious meal that fuel child for the rest of the school day . then , there be example where unhealthy fizzy drink and fried food be the norm . some 60 % of secondary school have be find not to follow the school standard at all . a study from Impact on Urban Health show significant difference between what be mandate by the school standard and what be on menu and what end up on plate . there be far too much free rein . there be no mechanism for school food standard to be check against what pupil be be serve . the new clause would end the postcode lottery of school food so that standard no long just exist on paper but be on our child ' s plate . the amendment in my name all relate to strengthen school breakfast club provision . after year of push my school Breakfast Bill , no one be happy than I when the Labour Government legislate for school breakfast . it be great to see that three of the pilot be in school in my constituency . some 2 . 7 million child live in food - insecure household . the previous Government ' s national school breakfast programme be miss 86 % of those child . Most of they will have arrive at school ready to learn , but with a gnawing hunger in their stomach . their day be mark with that persistent worry that come with hunger — a worry that will permeate their entire school day . hunger have a significant impact on child ' s learning , because hungry child do not learn , no matter how bright and determine they be and no matter how amazing or dedicate their teacher be . numerous study have show the link between nutrition and cognitive development . hungry child suffer developmental impairment , language delay and delay motor skill , not to mention the psychological and emotional impact , which can range from withdraw and depressive behaviour to irritable and aggressive one . I have always believe in the transformational power of education . it be certainly not standard for child from my background to end up in this place , so the power of a good education can never be overestimate . the food that fuel that ability to learn and develop should never be underestimate . these club will ensure that socioeconomic status be less of a decide factor in good educational outcome . my amendment would help realise the full potential of our breakfast club . there be no provision in the Bill to monitor or measure the success of school breakfast provision . it be difficult to scrutinise the efficacy of any policy if there be never any analysis of it . the pupil premium , free school meal eligibility and the income deprivation affect child index be good indicator of the very child who will need these club the most . any policy should be measure by its impact on these group , so that we know that those who be most in need be benefit . more worryingly , without proper datum to prove the success of the policy , a future Government may decide to scrap it altogether . that be why amendment 212 be so important . not all staff be nutritional expert , and some will have never deliver school breakfast provision before , so it be right that they have the right advice on hand and why a more mixed model and flexible approach be need from the Government . amendment 213 and 216 to 218 would achieve that . the flexibility show in the model adopt by Magic Breakfast have result in a take - up that be 375 % high than in non - Magic Breakfast school . yet the Bill require only one model be deliver : the traditional breakfast club , hold in a canteen for 30 minute before the start of the school day . many school already use different model of breakfast club , include one that suit particular school , such as classroom breakfast , grab - and - go takeaway model , nurture group and late provision . a rigid model of delivery will have less success and school that can not fit that model will feel that they have to be exempt from delivery . amendment 214 and 215 would ensure that if a school be to seek exemption from the Government ' s school club , other model have be consider . I know that the Minister know that SEND school often cater for primary and secondary pupil on the same site . that mean that in those school some child will be exclude from school breakfast club . I know from discussion with dedicated teacher and school staff in my constituency that they will not allow their pupil to be disadvantage in that way , so it be likely they will use their already tight budget to make sure old pupil also get that nutritious , healthy start to their school day . amendment 219 would apply only to approximately 100 , 000 pupil in England . that would be a modest 2 . 22 % increase in the policy if all those child take up the offer — and we know that that be unlikely , because the child with complex need do not always require the same food provision access by other pupil . for those who do require it , however , it be right that they should have the same nutritious start to their day as other child with whom they share a school site . I be , of course , please that at long last there be legislation for school breakfast . however , it be essential that we get that right . my amendment will do just that , and I know that the Minister will have carefully consider they . I look forward to her comment at the close of the debate . with the leave of the House , we have have an excellent debate this afternoon , as we do in Committee . I will pick out only a few of the contribution . we have important word from the Chair of the Education Committee , the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , who point out how quickly the Bill have be prepare and push through . that be why we have so many amendment on Report and , to be honest , one reason that the Bill have run into such trouble . my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) give a great speech , draw on his experience as the Chair of the Select Committee , and the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) give an excellent speech , lay out why the provision on home schooling be an excessive burden and go too far . we all agree that it be about make sure that child be not just " not in school " ; however , the provision really be overly burdensome . the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) and for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) and lot of conservative colleague point out the same thing . I have to say that my jaw hit the floor when I first read the Bill and see the provision that treat the parent of child in special school the same as people who be be investigate by social service . those people be not criminal , they be not do the wrong thing and sometimes they need to move to look after their vulnerable child . I hope the Government will think again in the other place . I agree with the shadow Minister on the point about special school . additionally , in Committee in January , he raise the point about local authority consent for some child to be withdraw from school , and how that should be extend from child who be subject to a child protection plan to child who be regard as a child in need . why be the opposition not push that to a vote today ? we have a limited number of thing that we can press to a vote , but I hope , as we go to the debate in the other place , that we be in complete agreement on the excessive nature of some of the requirement be make of home schooler , who we must not treat as illegitimate just because they choose to educate their child in a certain way . my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) use his huge experience to take we on a rather bleak journey from the reform agenda of the early Blair year to the regress that we be see now . my hon . friend the Member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) explain why this be such a mistake and take we through the Bill in bleak detail . I do not always agree with the hon . member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) , but I do agree with she on Andrew Tate , whom I regard as totally abhorrent . I be glad that my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , the shadow Justice Secretary , be lead the charge to get the Tates deport to this country so that they can face justice here . I find their work utterly , utterly abhorrent . my brilliant hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) contrast the reform rhetoric that we at least see in other Departments with the rather retro agenda in the Department for Education . my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , who do so much work in Committee , give we another brilliant and witty speech . he talk about how Labour reformer have always be swim against the tide , and I think that be right . he also talk about the free school breakfast number that the Government have use and the claim that they be go to save parent £ 450 . this be a mysterious figure , because if we want to give £ 450 to every primary school child , that will cost north of £ 2 billion , but the Government be spend £ 33 million , so they be two order of magnitude apart . why will the Government not publish the working behind this figure ? I think the truth be that the source be the back of a spad ' s fag packet , to be completely honest . the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) give a good speech , and the thing I absolutely agree with he about be the importance of teaching . it be one of the good and most noble thing anyone can do with their life . all of we as mp do school visit , and we might do an hour of highly energetic chat with people in year 6 . we then realise the energy require to be a teacher and to keep that up all day , so I absolutely pay tribute to those who be do this noble work . one of the most interesting speech this afternoon be the one from the hon . member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) . various Labour Members say that thing under the last Government be not nirvana , and that be right . various people say that there be more thing to fix , and that be right too . we absolutely agree with that . but the hon . Member say that thing be so much well in Wales because they have avoid the Blair - era reform agenda , they have avoid academy , they have get rid of league table for a time , they be still use other method such as cue rather than phonic , and so on and so forth . but let we just have a look at the number to see what that have do . the PISA table show that , under the last government , England go from 11th to ninth on science , 19th to ninth on reading and 21st to seventh on math . that be a huge increase . in Wales , the good bit be on math , where they go from 29th to 27th . they be flat at 28th on read and collapse from 21st to 29th on science . a pretty dismal record , really . I would encourage those who say that thing be brilliant in Wales to read the sear report by the Institute for Fiscal Studies , which be know for its mild - mannered work and cautious judgment . the report state : " PISA score decline by more in Wales than in most other country in 2022 , with score decline by about 20 point ( equivalent to about 20 % of a standard deviation , which be a big decline ) . this bring score in Wales to their low ever level , significantly below the average across OECD country and significantly below those see across the rest of the UK … Lower score in Wales can not be explain by high level of poverty . in PISA , disadvantaged child in England score about 30 point high , on average , than disadvantaged child in Wales . this be a large gap … even more remarkably , the performance of disadvantaged child in England be either above or similar to the average for all child in Wales . " disadvantaged child in England be do well than all child in Wales , and the IFS also point out that the disadvantage gap be big in Wales . it conclude that the explanation for low educational performance be not ethnicity or deprivation , and that it " be much more likely to reflect longstanding difference in policy and approach , such as low level of external accountability and less use of datum . " that be the damn indictment of the IFS . as Adams say , " fact be stubborn thing " . we have see what this agenda do in Wales . it be a disaster , and those who be the most deprived be the one who lose out the most . that be why this afternoon we be go to be push our amendment to protect academy freedom , to protect the ability of good school to grow and to protect parental choice . this Bill shift power from parent to politician , and we will always resist that . we will be move to a vote now to stop this destructive agenda , which have fail in Wales and will fail in England too . I call the Minister . I thank all hon . member for their contribution , some of which have be well consider and deliver powerfully — other less so . this government ' s mission be to break down barrier to opportunity by drive high and rise standard . that have to be the right of every child , deliver through excellent teaching and leadership , a high - quality curriculum , and a system that remove the barrier to learn that hold too many child back , all underpin by strong and clear accountability . this Bill deliver the legislative element of the broad vision that we be determined to deliver . as part of that , from next term free breakfast club will start be roll out in early adopter school across the country , include special school and alternative provision setting . member who table amendment 2 , 219 and 220 be right that it be critical that the new breakfast club be accessible for child with special educational need and disability . all pupil , include those with SEND and those in special school , be already in the exist drafting of the clause . the need to get this right be why we be test , and learn through , the early adopter programme . on amendment 214 , 215 , 217 and 218 , it be important to be clear on the distinction between food - only option be " alongside " or " instead of " the breakfast club . the club be as important as the breakfast . it give child a settled start to the day and will secure improvement in attendance and behaviour , so the right approach be to legislate to give school certainty of the minimum they need to provide and to work with early adopter to see how school can maximise attendance at these club . to promote food - only offer may risk undermine the club element . let we be clear : we inherit a shameful legacy from the previous Government . compare with when Labour last left office , 700 , 000 more child be grow up with their life and life chance scar by poverty . child can not achieve or thrive if the stressor and strain of grow up in poverty — of see their parent worried about put food on the table , of be concerned about their young sibling or whether their friend will judge they for not have the basic — be put on their shoulder . I know my hon . friend share the Government ' s concern for those child and their future . we have set up the child poverty taskforce chair by my right hon . friend the Education Secretary and the Work and Pensions Secretary to look at how we can work across Government to tackle the cause and impact of poverty on child ' s life . the support the Government provide through their school food programme to enable family to access healthy , nutritious food be be consider as part of that work . it be right that these considerable reform , such as extend universal infant free school meal to all primary pupil , be consider through this route in a holistic way . alongside the work of the taskforce , we be make progress to make it easy for family to access their entitlement , and I recognise the concern that right hon . and hon . member have for child miss out . the Government be press ahead with make it quick and easy for family and local authority to get child sign up for free school meal with our new eligibility check system , which allow parent to check their eligibility and support the local effort we have see to ensure that child receive that support . far , I can confirm that our official be work with the Government Digital Service in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology to explore option on further datum sharing to get more family sign up for their entitlement . we expect to have those provision in place from next year , well ahead of the academic year begin in September 2026 . our official be work with the Department for Work and Pensions to explore option on support enrolment through universal credit . my Department will monitor the impact of those policy and engage with local authority to assess the impact of the change on the uptake of free school meal . I would be happy to update the House on that work and write to the Chair of the Education Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , by way of do so . the Minister have set out the Government ' s commitment to increase the take - up of free school meal for child who be already eligible , as well as a number of practical measure the Government be take to make registration easy . on the basis of what she have say today , I be content not to push my new clause 1 to a vote . however , the Select Committee will continue to closely monitor the take - up of free school meal . should the progress that the Minister expect to see be lack , we will come back and press the issue of auto - enrolment again with she and expect that she look at it again . I thank my hon . friend for her diligence both in her role as Chair of the Select Committee and on this issue in particular . we want child to receive the entitlement that will transform their life chance . indeed , we will work closely with her Committee to ensure that we communicate well with the House on those important issue . our determination to deliver well life chance for our child do not stop there . as well as free breakfast club , we be deliver the holiday activity and food programme , enable disadvantaged child and child identify by their local authority to access healthy food and enriching activity in the school holiday . we will go far by support every child to achieve and thrive , include those with special educational need and disability , and by put money back in their parent ' pocket . another part of that picture be the sad increase in childhood obesity , which , unfortunately , the conservative party do very little to address . we must ensure that , alongside club and activity , the food that child have at school be healthy and balanced , and embed healthy eating habit . we must ensure compliance with school food standard . with reference to new clause 6 , we be work with the Food Standards Agency to take forward the finding of the 2022 - 23 compliance pilot on how good to tackle the barrier identify . on new clause 54 , I can confirm that the Government will continue to publish comprehensive datum on free school meal , and on the holiday activity and food programme , to ensure that our approach be inform by the well available evidence . tackle child poverty be imperative for the Government and for our society . it go beyond the provision of food to put money back in family ' pocket , give they choice and agency in ensure that their child be set up for the future . our action to cut the cost of school uniform be just another part of that picture . we be take step to cut the cost for family and put money back in their pocket . I know that hon . member share the desire to reduce the cost of send child to school , but a monetary cap , as propose in amendment 1 , would increase burden and could create new financial penalty for school . for school , that would mean have to review uniform policy annually to ensure that brand item be still within the cost cap , and , as a result , it could mean that they change their uniform more frequently to remain within the cap . they would also have to review and possibly renegotiate contract with supplier more frequently . for parent , more frequent change in uniform could increase the overall number of brand item that they have to buy while their child be at school . it could affect their ability to pass uniform down as second - hand , and could increase their reliance on specific supplier . our proposal provide clarity and certainty for school and will enable parent to have great choice in where they buy uniform . amendment 191 risk undermine that parental choice . nothing prevent school from provide brand item at a low cost than generic alternative and offer they as optional item . under current vat rule , all child ' s clothing and footwear design for child under 14 , include school uniform , already attract a zero rate of vat , which cover the intention of new clause 12 . on the point raise by the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , we encourage school to use sew - on badge , with a school name or logo , as a cost - effective way to brand uniform item . we want to give parent absolute clarity on what the limit mean for they . that be why we have include those item , plus a tie , in the three - item limit for secondary education . let I turn to amendment 4 , 13 and 14 , and 16 . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) for her intention to provide clarity on the interpretation of " suitable education " and " suitable arrangement " . it be important that there be consistency across local authority in how they approach that . however , the amendment be not need . section 7 of the Education Act 1996 be already clear that education must be suitable to a child ' s age , ability , aptitude and any special educational need they have . I want to reassure member that we will make clear in statutory guidance for local authority everything that they have to consider under section 7 when they be make decision about the suitability of education . I turn to amendment 8 and 12 . local authority will be able to require parent of eligible child to provide information for register . this will give they sight of this cohort of child , include those who be home educated , so that they can ensure that they receive a suitable education and be safe . remove this sanction from local authority would make the provision less effective . member will understand that it be consider poor practice for this Government or our predecessor to impose a legal duty on individual without ensure any sanction or consequence for fail to comply . amendment 203 concern the application of independent school standard to academy . academy be independent school in law and be regulate by the independent school standard , unless expressly exempt . if we take the standard away , we could not hold academy properly to account in critical area such as safeguarding . opposition Members should be familiar with this dual regime , as they operate it for 14 year . successive government have operate the regulatory regime on that basis , and this Government will do the same . it be more than 20 year since the last Labour Government begin convert into academy school that be fail child and show no sign of turn around . our party be the proud parent of academy , and of turn around the life chance of child in community up and down our country . that Labour Government be drive by a simple principle that drive this Labour Government , too : our child — all of they , in every school — deserve the very good education we can provide , and anything that stand in the way of that must be tackle . parent deserve to know that , wherever they live , their child will be able to attend a good local school , where there be a qualified teacher in front of the class , attract and retain through strong term and condition , teach a cutting - edge curriculum . every child deserve a school that give they the good education our country can offer . academy be , be and will continue to be at the heart of that endeavour . in the nearly nine month since the election , more than 420 school have be turn into academy . we be work with they to drive outcome for our child . we want to harness and spread throughout our school system the good academy ' innovation in teaching and practice , underpin by a core of standard that no one can slip below . we be committed to ensure that new teacher be set up for a successful teaching career through high - quality teacher training and induction . amendment 222 be unnecessary because existing exemption allow school the flexibility to recruit an unqualified subject expert and then support they in gain QTS through an employment - base route , or ensure that they be under qualified supervision . amendment 209 , 223 and 225 — [ interruption . ] do the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) honestly just say , " it cost a load of money to train teacher ? " that be what I understand she to say . as set out in Committee , we propose repeal the duty to issue academy order , in order to broaden the Secretary of State ' s flexibility to take the good course of action for any school in a category of concern . we have set out our plan for exercise this flexibility , and the Government will update the House on the progress of the consultation . academisation should remain the default position for school in special measure , and we propose continue to academise school as we build the capacity of the new rise — regional improvement for standard and excellence — service . we be not content to leave school struggle , as the previous Government do . from September 2026 , school require significant improvement will be support by rise team , which will work with responsible body to drive forward school improvement . academisation will remain as a backstop if improvement be not secure . I turn to amendment 210 . together with change to regulation , clause 51 provide a route for independent consideration where agreement on the publish admission number , or PAN , of a school can not be reach locally . that will ensure that decision on a school ' s PAN meet the need of the local community , so that parent have the opportunity to send their child to a school where they can achieve and thrive . there have be a long - stand expectation that school and local authority will work together on place planning . however , where authority have unilaterally set a PAN that do not work in the interest of child in the area , do not meet local need , and damage the quality of education that child receive , the Bill will change that . [ interruption . ] I can reassure the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) that it will not prevent good school from be able to grow , where that be right for local child . indeed , we expect that it will encourage good school to offer more place , where there be demand , and where they have the capacity to do so . our proposal give local authority power to set school ' pan , and school will only be able to object to the independent and impartial adjudicator when the adjudicator conclude that a PAN be unlawful , have regard to admission law . school performance and parental choice will continue to be a key consideration throughout the regulation , and we need to ensure that all publish admission number be right for school and local child . finally , on the monitoring and evaluation of the Bill , we have already set out our intention to conduct and publish a post - implementation review / impact assessment , and we will consider other post - implementation review as necessary , as we do for all measure that regulate business activity . this Bill represent just the first legislative step towards what this Government want to achieve in drive up outcome for all child — and we mean every child . the security of a safe and love home , the security that come from family know that send their child to school will not cost the earth , and the security of a good local school with qualified teacher support every child to achieve and thrive — after 14 long year , that be not too much to ask , and it be what this Bill will deliver . question put and agree to . new clause 17 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 7 - registration of child for free school meal " after section 512ZA of the Education Act 1996 ( power to charge for meal etc . ) , insert — " 512zaa registration of child for free school meal the Secretary of State must ensure that free school meal be provide to — ( a ) all child in England who be eligible to receive free school meal ; and ( b ) all child whose household income be less than £ 20 , 000 per year . " " — ( Munira Wilson . ) bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Paul Kohler Carla Lockhart Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Calum Miller John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Tessa Munt Susan Murray Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Bridget Phillipson Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 77 , Noes 313 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 34 - Provision of free school lunch to all primary school child " ( 1 ) Section 512ZB of the Education Act 1996 ( provision of free school lunch and milk ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 4A ) ( b ) , after ' year 2 , ' insert ' year 3 , year 4 , year 5 , year 6 ' . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 4C ) , after ' age of 7 ; ' insert — ' " year 3 " mean a year group in which the majority of child will , in the school year , attain the age of 8 ; " year 4 " mean a year group in which the majority of child will , in the school year , attain the age of 9 ; " year 5 " mean a year group in which the majority of child will , in the school year , attain the age of 10 ; " year 6 " mean a year group in which the majority of child will , in the school year , attain the age of 11 ; ' " . — ( Adrian Ramsay . ) this new clause would extend free school lunch to all primary school age child in state fund school . bring up and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Alex Brewer Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Paul Kohler Brian Leishman Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Mike Martin Charlie Maynard John Martin McDonnell Calum Miller John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Si â n Berry Carla Denyer Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Nigel Farage Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon James McMurdock Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Bridget Phillipson Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Richard Tice Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 77 , Noes 315 . question accordingly negative . clause 23 - food and drink provide at Academies Amendments make : 132 , page 44 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 1 ) in section 512B of the Education Act 1996 ( provision of school lunch : Academies ) , after subsection ( 3 ) insert — " ( 4 ) subsection ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) apply to an agreement under section 482 in relation to a city technology college or a city college for the technology of the art as they apply to Academy arrangement in relation to an Academy school or an alternative provision Academy . " " this amendment ensure that section 512B of the Education Act 1996 ( which impose requirement relate to the provision of school lunch at Academy school and alternative provision Academies ) also apply to city technology college and city college for the technology of the art . amendment 133 , page 44 , line 28 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) subsection ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) apply to an agreement under section 482 in relation to a city technology college or a city college for the technology of the art as they apply to Academy arrangement in relation to an Academy school or an alternative provision Academy . " . — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) this amendment ensure that the provision make by insert section 512C of the Education Act 1996 ( which apply the school food standard to Academy school and alternative provision Academies ) also apply to city technology college and city college for the technology of the art . clause 24 - school uniform Amendments make : 134 , page 45 , line 24 , leave out — " or a non - maintain special school " and insert — " , a non - maintain special school , a city technology college or a city college for the technology of the art , " this amendment be consequential on amendment 135 . amendment 135 , page 45 , line 33 , at end insert — " , or ( f ) a city technology college or a city college for the technology of the art , " . — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) this amendment ensure that the definition of " relevant school " in section 551ZA ( insert into the Education Act 1996 by clause 24 ) include a city technology college and a city college for the technology of the art . clause 25 - local authority consent for withdrawal of certain child from school Amendments make : 20 , page 46 , line 21 , leave out " in England " . this amendment and the amendment in the name of Secretary Bridget Phillipson to clause 25 to 29 and schedule 1 ensure that the provision in the Bill that relate to child not in school , that previously apply only in England , will also apply in Wales . amendment 21 , page 46 , line 24 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 22 , page 46 , line 25 , leave out " 337 ( 1 ) " and insert " 337 " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 23 , page 46 , leave out line 26 to 28 and insert — " ( b ) an independent school within the meaning of section 463 which — ( i ) in the case of a school in England , be specially organise to make special educational provision for pupil with special educational need ; ( ii ) in the case of a school in Wales , be wholly or mainly concerned with provide full - time education to person for whom an individual development plan be maintain . " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 24 page 46 , line 29 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . Amendment 25 , page 47 , line 44 , leave out " the Secretary of State , and " and insert " — ( i ) the Secretary of State , in relation to a local authority in England , and ( ii ) the Welsh Ministers , in relation to a local authority in Wales , and " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 26 , page 48 , line 1 , after " State " insert " or the Welsh Ministers ( as the case may be ) " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . Amendment 27 , page 48 , line 7 , leave out " the Secretary of State , and " and insert — " ( i ) the Secretary of State , in relation to a local authority in England , and ( ii ) the Welsh Ministers , in relation to a local authority in Wales , and " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 28 , page 48 , line 8 , after " State " insert — " or the Welsh Ministers ( as the case may be ) " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 29 , page 48 , line 10 , after " consider " insert — " , or the Welsh Ministers consider , " . — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . clause 26 - registration Amendments make : 30 , page 48 , line 35 , leave out " : England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 31 , page 48 , line 37 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 136 , page 49 , line 6 , after " pupil " insert " or a student register " . this amendment be a minor drafting change to ensure that the correct label be use in relation to institution where the child be refer to as student rather than pupil . amendment 137 , page 49 , line 15 , after " pupil " insert " or a student register " . this amendment be a minor drafting change to ensure that the correct label be use in relation to institution where the child be refer to as student rather than pupil . Amendment 138 , page 49 , leave out line 28 to 30 . this amendment and amendment 139 ensure that unregistered independent educational institution do not fall within the definition of " relevant school " for the purpose of determine whether there be a duty to register a child under section 436B of the Education Act 1996 , as insert by clause 26 . amendment 32 , page 49 , line 31 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 139 , page 49 , line 35 , after " 2008 " insert — " , that be register under section 95 of that Act ( register of independent educational institution ) " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 138 . Amendment 33 , page 49 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( f ) a school that be include in the register of independent school in Wales ( keep under section 158 of the Education Act 2002 ) , or " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 140 , page 49 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( g ) a school within the meaning of section 135 ( 1 ) of the Education ( Scotland ) Act 1980 . " this ensure that section 436B , insert into the Education Act 1996 by clause 26 , do not require a local authority to register a child who attend a school in Scotland . Amendment 34 , page 50 , line 24 , at begin insert — " in the case of a child who be in the area of a local authority in England , " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 35 , page 50 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( ba ) in the case of a child who be in the area of a local authority in Wales , whether the child have any additional learning need , include whether an individual development plan be maintain for the child ; " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 36 , page 50 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( da ) whether the child have ever be assess as have need for care and support for the purpose of Part 4 of the Social Services and well - be ( Wales ) Act 2014 ( anaw 4 ) ( see section 32 ( 1 ) of that Act ) and , if so , any action that a local authority be take or have take in relation to the child under that Part ( or Part 4 or 5 of the Children Act 1989 ) and any service that a local authority be provide or have provide to the child in the exercise of function confer on the authority by or under that Part ( or Part 4 or 5 of the Children Act 1989 ) ; " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 37 , page 50 , line 41 , after " authority " insert " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 38 , page 50 , line 42 , after " 1989 ) " insert — " or in Wales ( within the meaning of section 74 of the Social Services and well - be ( Wales ) Act 2014 ) " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 39 , page 51 , line 16 , after " consider " insert — " , or the Welsh Ministers consider ( as the case may be ) , " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 40 , page 52 , line 3 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 41 , page 52 , line 8 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 42 , page 52 , line 35 , after " 19 " insert — " ( in England ) or section 19a ( in Wales ) " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 43 , page 52 , line 38 , at begin insert — " where the local authority be a local authority in England , " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 44 , page 52 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( ca ) where the local authority be a local authority in Wales , arrangement make by the local authority under section 53 of the Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal ( Wales ) Act 2018 ( anaw 2 ) ( additional learning provision otherwise than in school ) ; " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 45 , page 53 , line 2 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 46 , in clause 26 , page 54 , line 5 , leave out " in England " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 47 , page 54 , line 17 , leave out " in England " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 48 , page 54 , line 17 , after " direct " insert — " in relation to a local authority in England , or the Welsh Ministers so direct in relation to a local authority in Wales , " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 49 , page 54 , line 18 , after " State " insert — " or the Welsh Ministers ( as the case may be ) " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . Amendment 50 , page 54 , line 21 , after " State " insert " or the Welsh Ministers " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 51 , page 54 , line 22 , after " consider " insert — " or the Welsh Ministers consider ( as the case may be ) " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 52 , page 54 , line 27 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 53 , page 54 , line 35 , after " 11 ( 1 ) " insert " or 28 ( 1 ) " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 54 , page 54 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( c ) his Majesty ' s Chief Inspector of Education and Training in Wales ; ( d ) the Welsh Ministers . " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . Amendment 55 , page 55 , line 1 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 56 , page 55 , line 3 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 57 , page 55 , line 10 , leave out " Wales , " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 58 , page 55 , line 12 , after first " England " insert " or Wales " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 59 , page 55 , line 12 , leave out second " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 60 , page 55 , line 24 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 61 , page 55 , line 38 , after " 19 " insert " or 19a " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 62 , page 55 , line 41 , at end insert " , or ( d ) the local authority be require to secure additional learning provision or other provision for the child under section 14 ( 10 ) or 19 ( 7 ) of the Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal ( Wales ) Act 2018 . " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 63 , page 56 , line 3 , after " regulation " insert " to be make by the Secretary of State " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . Amendment 64 , page 56 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) in section 569 ( 2B ) , ( 2ba ) and ( 2bb ) for " the National Assembly for Wales " ( in each place that it occur ) substitute " Senedd Cymru " . ( 3b ) after section 569 ( 2bb ) insert — " ( 2bc ) a statutory instrument which contain any of the following regulation to be make by the Welsh Ministers be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of Senedd Cymru — ( a ) regulation under any of the follow provision , other than the first set of such regulation — ( i ) section 436B ( 6 ) , ( ii ) section 436c ( 4 ) , ( iii ) section 436E ( 9 ) , ( iv ) section 436F ( 1 ) , ( v ) paragraph 5 of Schedule 31a , or ( b ) regulation under section 436i ( 5 ) . ( 2bd ) a statutory instrument which contain ( whether alone or with other provision ) any of the following regulation to be make by the Welsh Ministers may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before , and approve by resolution of , Senedd Cymru — ( a ) the first regulation under section 436B ( 6 ) , ( b ) regulation under section 436c ( 2 ) , ( c ) the first regulation under section 436c ( 4 ) , ( d ) regulation under section 436E ( 1 ) ( a ) , ( e ) regulation under section 436E ( 7 ) , ( f ) the first regulation under section 436E ( 9 ) , ( g ) the first regulation under section 436F ( 1 ) , ( h ) regulation under section 436F ( 2 ) , or ( i ) the first regulation under paragraph 5 of Schedule 31a . " " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 65 , page 56 , line 21 , leave out " in England " . — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . clause 27 School attendance order Amendments make : 66 , page 58 , line 15 , leave out " : England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 67 , page 58 , line 17 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 68 , page 58 , line 22 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 69 , page 59 , line 34 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 141 , page 60 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) but a local authority must not serve an order under this section on a child ' s parent if — ( a ) either — ( i ) condition b be the only condition cite in the preliminary notice serve under section 436H in relation to the child , or ( ii ) condition b and another condition be cite in that preliminary notice , but the child ' s parent have satisfy the local authority that the child be receive suitable education , ( b ) the local authority be no long conduct enquiry or take action in respect of the child as mention in section 436h ( 5 ) ( a ) , and ( c ) the local authority be not aware of any other enquiry be make under section 47 of the Children Act 1989 or of any other action be take under section 47 ( 8 ) of that Act in respect of the child . " this amendment ensure that a school attendance order be not to be give where enquiry or action under section 47 of the Children Act 1989 be no long ongoing ( and in a case where there be also other ground for the preliminary notice , the local authority be satisfied that the child be receive suitable education ) . amendment 70 , page 61 , line 7 , at end insert " ( England ) " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 71 , page 61 , line 8 , after " authority " insert " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 72 , page 61 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) where a school attendance order be in force in respect of a child who subsequently become a child for whom the local authority maintain an EHC plan which specify the name of a school , the local authority must ensure that school be name in the order . " this amendment ensure that the provision on school attendance order for a child with an EHC plan will also cater for child who already have a school attendance order and then get an EHC plan at a later date . amendment 73 , page 61 , line 25 , at end insert — " 436JA School attendance order for child with individual development plan ( Wales ) ( 1 ) where a local authority in Wales be require to serve a school attendance order under section 436i in respect of a child for whom an individual development plan be maintain in which a particular school be name , that school must be name in the order . ( 2 ) where — ( a ) a school attendance order be in force in respect of a child for whom an individual development plan be maintain in which a particular school be name , and ( b ) the name of the school specify in the plan be change , the local authority must amend the order accordingly . ( 3 ) where a school attendance order be in force in respect of a child who subsequently become a child for whom an individual development plan be maintain in which a particular school be name , the local authority must ensure that school be name in the order . " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 and 72 . amendment 74 , page 61 , line 29 , after " plan , " insert — " or a child for whom an individual development plan be maintain in which a particular school be name , " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 75 , page 64 , line 24 , after " State " insert — " in relation to a school in England , or to the Welsh Ministers in relation to a school in Wales , " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 76 , page 64 , line 40 , after " section " insert — " in relation to a school in England or the Welsh Ministers give a direction under this section in relation to a school in Wales " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 77 , page 65 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( 8 ) if a local authority in England serve a notice under subsection ( 2 ) specify a school in Wales and an application for a direction be make to the Welsh Ministers under subsection ( 4 ) in relation to that notice , the direction under this section may only — ( a ) confirm that a school specify in the notice under subsection ( 2 ) should be specify in the school nomination notice , or ( b ) refer the question of which school or school should be specify in the school nomination notice back to the local authority to determine . ( 9 ) if a local authority in Wales serve a notice under subsection ( 2 ) specify a school in England , and an application for a direction be make to the Secretary of State under subsection ( 4 ) in relation to that notice , the direction under this section may only — ( a ) confirm that a school specify in the notice under subsection ( 2 ) should be specify in the school nomination notice , or ( b ) refer the question of which school or school should be specify in the school nomination notice back to the local authority to determine . " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 78 , page 65 , line 8 , after " plan " insert — " or a child for whom an individual development plan be maintain in which a particular school be name " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 142 , page 66 , line 8 , leave out " on request " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 143 . amendment 143 , page 66 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the local authority must revoke the order if — ( a ) the order be serve follow a preliminary notice under section 436H in which the only condition cite be condition b , ( b ) the local authority be no long conduct enquiry or take action in respect of the child as mention in section 436h ( 5 ) ( a ) , and ( c ) the local authority be not aware of any other enquiry be make under section 47 of the Children Act 1989 or of any other action be take under section 47 ( 8 ) of that Act in respect of the child . " this amendment ensure that a local authority must revoke a school attendance order serve follow a preliminary notice base on enquiry be make or action be take under section 47 of the Children Act 1989 which be no long ongoing . amendment 144 , page 66 , line 15 , leave out from " serve " to the end of line 17 and insert — " ( i ) as a result of the person fail to satisfy the local authority that the child be receive suitable education , or ( ii ) as a result of the person fail to satisfy the local authority both that the child be receive suitable education and that it be in the good interest of the child to receive education otherwise than by regular attendance at school , where subsection ( 1A ) ( b ) and ( c ) apply ; ( 1A ) ( b ) " . this amendment ensure that a request for a school attendance order to be revoke can be make where arrangement have be make for the child to receive suitable education in a case where enquiry or action under section 47 of the Children Act 1989 be no long ongoing and the preliminary notice cite condition b and another condition . amendment 79 , page 66 , line 27 , leave out " the local authority " and insert — " a local authority in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 80 , page 66 , line 31 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) if a person be aggrieve by a refusal of a local authority in Wales to comply with a request under subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) the person may refer the question to the Welsh Ministers , and ( b ) the Welsh Ministers must give such direction determine the question as the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate . " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . Amendment 81 , page 66 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) where the child be one for whom the local authority maintain an individual development plan — ( a ) if the name of a school or other institution be specify in the plan , subsection ( 2 ) do not apply ; ( b ) if the name of a school or other institution be not specify in the plan , a direction under subsection ( 4A ) ( b ) may require the authority to make such amendment in the plan as the Welsh Ministers consider necessary or expedient in consequence of the determination . " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 145 , page 67 , line 5 , leave out " the person prove that arrangement have be make " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 148 . amendment 146 , page 67 , line 7 , at begin insert — " the person prove that arrangement have be make " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 148 . amendment 147 , page 67 , line 11 , at begin insert — " the person prove that arrangement have be make " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 148 . amendment 148 , page 67 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( c ) section 436H ( 5 ) ( a ) be no long meet in respect of the child , where the order be serve follow a preliminary notice under section 436H which cite only condition b , or 436H ( 5 ) ( a ) ( d ) both — ( i ) the person prove that arrangement have be make for the child to receive suitable education otherwise than at a school , and ( ii ) section 436H ( 5 ) ( a ) be no long meet in respect of the child , where the order be serve follow a preliminary notice under section 436H which cite condition b and another condition " . this amendment ensure that a criminal offence be not commit where a person fail to comply with a school attendance order serve , or serve in part , because of enquiry or action under section 47 of the Children Act 1989 which be no long ongoing , and the person prove that the child be receive suitable education . Amendment 82 , page 67 , line 21 , after " 436J " insert " , 436JA " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 149 , page 68 , line 4 , at end insert — " 436R reference to " Academy school " and " academy arrangement " ( 1 ) in section 436I and 436 k to 436N , a reference to an Academy school include a reference to a city technology college and a city college for the technology of the art . ( 2 ) the reference in section 436l to Academy arrangement include a reference to an agreement under section 482 . " this amendment ensure that a reference to an Academy school in the provision on school attendance order ( insert into the Education Act 1996 by clause 27 ) include a reference to a city technology college or a city college for the technology of the art . amendment 83 , page 68 , line 4 , at end insert — " 436S reference to " regulation " and " prescribe " ( 1 ) in section 436B ( 6 ) , 436C ( 4 ) and 436E ( 7 ) " regulation " mean — ( a ) regulation make by the Secretary of State in relation to England , and ( b ) regulation make by the Welsh Ministers in relation to Wales . ( 2 ) in section 436C , 436E , section 436F , 436I and paragraph 5 of Schedule 31a " prescribed " mean — ( a ) prescribe by regulation make by the Secretary of State in relation to England , and ( b ) prescribe by regulation make by the Welsh Ministers in relation to Wales . " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 84 , page 68 , line 7 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 85 , page 68 , line 9 , leave out from " unit ) , " to " — " in line 10 and insert " for paragraph 14 substitute " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 86 , page 68 , line 11 , leave out " 13A " and insert " 14 " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 87 , page 68 , line 12 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 88 , page 68 , line 22 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 89 , page 68 , line 36 , leave out " in England " . — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . clause 28 - Data protection Amendments make : 150 , page 69 , line 2 , leave out " 436P " and insert " 436S " . this amendment be consequential on amendment , 73 , 149 and 83 which insert new provision into clause 27 . amendment 90 , page 69 , line 3 , leave out " attendance order in England : datum protection " and insert — " school attendance order : processing of information " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . this amendment be also consequential on amendment 151 . Amendment 151 , page 69 , leave out line 4 to 14 and insert — " 436 t processing of information ( 1 ) this section apply to section 434A , section 436B to 436p and Schedule 31a , and provision of regulation make under any of those provision . ( 2 ) except as provide by subsection ( 3 ) , a disclosure of information authorise or require under any provision to which this section apply do not breach — ( a ) any obligation of confidence owe by the person make the disclosure , or ( b ) any other restriction on the disclosure of information ( however impose ) . ( 3 ) none of the provision to which this section apply be to be read as require or authorise the processing of information which would contravene the data protection legislation ( but in determine whether the processing would do so , take into account the duty impose or the power confer by the provision in question ) . ( 4 ) in this section , " the data protection legislation " and " processing " have the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 of that Act ) . " this amendment ensure that power to disclose information under the provision mention override any obligation of confidence or restriction on disclosure other than those impose by the data protection legislation . amendment 152 , page 69 , line 16 , leave out " 436Q " and insert " 436 t " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 73 , 149 and 83 which insert new provision into clause 27 . amendment 153 , page 69 , line 19 , leave out " 436R " and insert " 436U " . — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 73 , 149 and 83 which insert new provision into clause 27 . clause 29 - Guidance on child not in school and school attendance order Amendments make : 91 , page 69 , line 18 , leave out " : England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 92 , page 69 , line 21 , leave out " any guidance give by the Secretary of State " and insert — " ( a ) in the case of a local authority in England , any guidance give by the Secretary of State ; ( b ) in the case of a local authority in Wales , any guidance give by the Welsh Ministers . " — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . clause 31 - expand the scope of regulation Amendments make : 154 , page 69 , line 29 , leave out from begin to end of line 20 on page 70 and insert — " ( 1 ) the follow be independent educational institution for the purpose of this chapter — ( a ) independent school in England ; ( b ) institution in England , other than independent school and excepted institution , that provide full - time education for — ( i ) at least five child of compulsory school age , or ( ii ) at least one child of compulsory school age who be look after by a local authority or have special educational need . ( 2 ) the follow subsection apply for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) ( and see section 138 ( 1A ) for provision about the meaning of an institution provide education ) . ( 3 ) Regulations may — ( a ) specify that an amount of time be or be not to be treat as " full - time " by reference to a number of hour in , or a proportion of , a week or other period , or in any other way ; ( b ) provide that time spend on a specify activity or on an activity of a specified description be or be not to be treat as time during which education be be provide ; ( c ) amend subsection ( 4 ) so as to add , remove or amend factor ; ( d ) amend this section so as to add , remove or amend provision about the interpretation of the factor in subsection ( 4 ) . ( 4 ) if , or to the extent that , the question of whether an institution provide full - time education for a child be not determine by regulation under subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) or ( b ) , the factor relevant to determine that question include — ( a ) the number of hour per week that — ( i ) education be provide to child by the institution ; ( ii ) activity incidental to that education ( such as break and independent study time ) be provide ; ( b ) the number of week in an academic year that education be provide ; ( c ) the time of day that education be provide . " this amendment highlight that all independent school in England still fall within the definition of " independent educational institution " , revise the power to make regulation to reflect how it be intend to be use and revise the factor to be take into account to determine whether an institution be provide full - time education . Amendment 155 , page 71 , leave out line 31 and 32 and insert — " ( fa ) regulation under section 92 , " — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 154 . clause 32 - independent educational institution standard Amendment make : 156 , page 83 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) after section 127 insert — " 127A Determination by Tribunal of whether person be fit and proper ( 1 ) this section apply where the question of whether an institution meet , have meet or be likely to meet an independent educational institution standard prescribe under section 94 ( 1A ) ( a ) ( i ) or ( b ) ( fit and proper person ) be relevant to an application or appeal to the Tribunal under this chapter . ( 2 ) the Tribunal may determine that question for the purpose of the application or appeal , include by find that a relevant person be , be or would be a fit and proper person to be involve in the running of an independent educational institution even if the Secretary of State be not of that opinion . ( 3 ) " relevant person " mean — ( a ) where the proprietor or propose proprietor of the institution mention in subsection ( 1 ) be a body of person , a person have , or propose to have , general control and management of , or legal responsibility and accountability for , the proprietor or propose proprietor ; ( b ) where the proprietor or propose proprietor of the institution mention in subsection ( 1 ) be an individual , the individual . " " . — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) clause 32 ( 2 ) ( a ) amend the Education and Skills Act 2008 to allow for independent educational institution standard to be set that relate to whether , in the Secretary of State ' s opinion , person be fit and proper to be involve in the running of institution . this amendment allow the first - tier Tribunal to make that find itself where relevant to an application or appeal . clause 34 - Material change Amendments make : 157 , page 85 , line 32 , after " ( 3 ) ( g ) " insert " or section 101 ( 2 ) ( i ) " . this amendment provide for regulation to be make about what constitute a type of special educational need for the purpose of new provision insert by clause 34 . amendment 158 , page 86 , line 26 , leave out " ( as prescribe under section 98 ( 3A ) ) " . this amendment remove word to reflect that regulation may not necessarily be make under section 98 ( 3A ) . amendment 159 , page 88 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 11 ) in section 166 ( order and regulation ) , in subsection ( 6 ) ( a ) , after " circumstance " insert " , purpose " . " — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) this amendment allow for regulation to be make for different purpose . clause 37 Powers of entry and investigation etc amendment make : 160 , page 92 , line 1 , leave out from " this section " to end of line 3 and insert — " ( a ) authorise the Chief Inspector to exercise the power of investigation confer by section 127D ( 1 ) ( a ) , and ( b ) may authorise the Chief Inspector to exercise the power of investigation confer by section 127D ( 1 ) ( b ) to ( k ) or particular power . " this amendment and amendment 163 provide for power of investigation that be always exercisable by the Chief Inspector follow an entry without warrant also to be exercisable follow an entry under warrant . amendment 161 , page 92 , line 17 , leave out " the Chief Inspector ' s entry to the premise or " . clause 37 allow for the Chief Inspector ' s entry to premise and investigation on premise to be assist by any person accompany , or thing bring with , the Chief Inspector . this amendment limit this to assistance with investigation on premise . amendment 162 , page 92 , line 21 , leave out " the Chief Inspector ' s entry or " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 161 . amendment 163 , page 93 , line 22 , leave out " subsection ( 1 ) " and insert " subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) to ( k ) " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 160 . amendment 164 , page 93 , line 25 , leave out " subsection ( 1 ) ( i ) " and insert " subsection ( 1 ) ( e ) , ( h ) or ( i ) " . this amendment provide for copy of any document or other information take by the Chief Inspector , in addition to thing seize , to be retain for so long as be necessary in the circumstance . amendment 165 , page 95 , line 32 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) and insert — " ( 5 ) the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 be amend as follow . ( 6 ) in section 57 ( 1 ) ( retention of seize item ) , after paragraph ( v ) insert — " ( w ) section 127D ( 3 ) of the Education and Skills Act 2008 . " ( 7 ) in section 65 ( meaning of " legal privilege " ) — ( a ) after subsection ( 8c ) insert — ( 8D ) an item which be , or be comprise in , property which have be seize in exercise or purport exercise of the power of seizure confer by section 127D ( 1 ) ( e ) , ( h ) or ( i ) of the Education and Skills Act 2008 be to be take for the purpose of this part to be an item subject to legal privilege if , and only if , the seizure of that item be in contravention of section 127D ( 7 ) of that Act . ; ( b ) in subsection ( 9 ) — ( i ) at the end of paragraph ( e ) omit " or " ; ( ii ) at the end of paragraph ( g ) insert " , or " ; ( iii ) after paragraph ( g ) insert — ' ( h ) section 127D ( 1 ) ( e ) , ( h ) or ( i ) of the Education and Skills Act 2008 . ' ( 8 ) in Part 1 of Schedule 1 ( power of seizure to which section 50 of the Act apply ) , after paragraph 73w insert — " Education and Skills Act 2008 " 73X each of the power of seizure confer by section 127D ( 1 ) ( e ) , ( h ) and ( i ) of the Education and Skills Act 2008 . " — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) this amendment make further provision consequential on the power of seizure insert into the Education and Skills Act 2008 by clause 37 . clause 39 - Inspectors and inspectorate : report and information share Amendments make : 166 , page 96 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) except as provide by subsection ( 2 ) , a disclosure of information under this section make for the purpose of safeguard or promote the welfare of child provide with accommodation by a school or college do not breach — ( a ) any obligation of confidence owe by the Chief Inspector for England , or ( b ) any other restriction on the disclosure of information ( however impose ) . " this amendment provide that , subject to the data protection legislation , disclosure by the Chief Inspector for England to inspector of school and college do not breach any confidence or restriction if make to protect the welfare of child accommodate by a school or college . amendment 167 , page 97 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) except as provide by subsection ( 2 ) , a disclosure of information under this section make for the purpose of safeguard or promote the welfare of student at a register independent educational institution do not breach — ( a ) any obligation of confidence owe by the Chief Inspector , or ( b ) any other restriction on the disclosure of information ( however impose ) . " — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) this amendment provide that , subject to the data protection legislation , disclosure by the Chief Inspector to inspector of independent educational institution do not breach any confidence or restriction if make to protect the welfare of student at such an institution . clause 44 - Academies : power to secure performance of proprietor ' s duty etc Amendment make : 168 , page 103 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( 7 ) in this section , a reference to an Academy include a reference to a city technology college and a city college for the technology of the art . " — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) this amendment expand the meaning of " Academy " in clause 44 to include the remain institution establish under pre - academy arrangement that have not become Academies . clause 45 - repeal of duty to make Academy order in relation to school causing concern Amendment propose : 209 , page 103 , line 36 , leave out clause 45 . — ( Laura Trott . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Nick Timothy Andrew Snowden Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Bridget Phillipson Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 107 , Noes 324 . question accordingly negative . clause 51 - Functions of Adjudicator in relation to admission number Amendment propose : 210 , page 107 , line 32 , leave out clause 51 . — ( Laura Trott . ) question put : that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Andrew Snowden Nick Timothy Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Bridget Phillipson Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 167 , Noes 324 . question accordingly negative . clause 59 - Extent Amendments make : 169 , page 113 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) subject to subsection ( 1 ) , section ( corporate parenting responsibility ) , ( case in which duty under section ( corporate parenting responsibility ) ( 1 ) do not apply ) , ( corporate parenting duty : collaborative work ) , ( duty to have regard to guidance ) and ( report by Secretary of State ) and Schedule ( relevant authority ) extend to England and Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . " this amendment provide that NC18 , NC19 , NC20 , NC21 and NC22 and NS1 extend to the whole of the United Kingdom . amendment 170 , page 113 , line 6 , leave out " subsection ( 1 ) " and insert " subsection ( 1 ) and ( 1A ) " . — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 169 clause 60 - Commencement Amendments make : 93 , page 113 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) subject to subsection ( 1 ) , section 25 to 30 and Schedule 1 come into force , in relation to Wales , on such day as the Welsh Ministers may by regulation make by statutory instrument appoint . " this amendment and the amendment in the name of Secretary Bridget Phillipson to clause 60 ensure that the Welsh Ministers have the power to commence the provision relate to child not in school , in relation to Wales . see also the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 94 , page 113 , line 26 , leave out " and ( 2 ) " and insert " to ( 2A ) " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 93 . amendment 95 , page 113 , line 29 , after " appoint " insert " under subsection ( 2A ) or ( 3 ) " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 93 . amendment 96 , page 113 , line 32 , at end insert — " , except section 25 to 30 and Schedule 1 in relation to Wales . " see the explanatory statement to amendment 93 . amendment 97 , page 113 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) the Welsh Ministers may by regulation make by statutory instrument make transitional or save provision in connection with the come into force of section 25 to 30 ( include Schedule 1 ) in relation to Wales . " see the explanatory statement to amendment 93 . amendment 98 , page 113 , line 33 , after " ( 5 ) " insert " or ( 5A ) " . — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 97 . schedule 1 - child not in school : consequential amendment Amendments make : 99 , page 114 , line 6 , leave out " after " section " insert " 436I or " " and insert " for " 437 " substitute " 436I " " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 100 , page 114 , line 8 , leave out " after " section " insert " 436I or " " and insert " for " 437 " substitute " 436I " " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 101 , page 114 , line 10 , leave out " after " section " insert " 436I or " " and insert " for " 437 " substitute " 436I " " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . Amendment 102 , page 114 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) omit section 437 to 443 ( school attendance order ) and the italic heading before section 437 and 443 . " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 103 , page 114 , line 14 , leave out sub - paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 9 ) . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 104 , page 115 , line 25 , leave out " , after " under section " insert " 436P , " " and insert " and ( 2 ) ( a ) , for " 443 " substitute " 436P " " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 105 , page 115 , line 26 , leave out sub - paragraph ( 13 ) . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 106 , page 115 , line 36 , leave out from " substitute " to the end of line 37 and insert " section 436I . " see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . Amendment 107 , page 116 , line 1 , leave out sub - paragraph ( 16 ) . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 108 , page 116 , line 13 , leave out " after " section " insert " 436 K ( 4 ) , 436n ( 2 ) , " " and insert " for " 438 ( 4 ) or 440 ( 2 ) " substitute " 436 K ( 4 ) or 436n ( 2 ) " " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 109 , page 116 , line 17 , leave out " or 443 " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . amendment 110 , page 116 , line 18 , leave out " , 443 " . — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) see the explanatory statement to amendment 20 . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . this be legislation that belong to child . the clue be in the name — the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . it be for they . it be because this Government be for they . we be on a mission to break down the barrier to opportunity for each and every child , to sever the link between background and success , and this Bill sit at the centre of that mission . let I start by thank member from across the House for their contribution , especially member of the Bill Committee for their scrutiny . I say a particular thank you to the ministerial team — my hon . friend the Minister for School Standards and the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) — for guide the Bill through its Commons stage . this debate be valuable . education be back at the forefront of national life and child be back at the centre of our national conversation . every child in this country deserve a safe childhood and an excellent education . the action in the Bill cement in legislation the big reform of child ' s social care in a generation , keep child with their family wherever it be safe to do so , support they to stay together and strengthen kinship care so that vulnerable child can live with the people they know and trust if they can not continue to live with their parent . it fix the break care market so that when child can not stay with their family , and kinship or foster care sadly be not an option , child have somewhere to live that be safe , secure and supportive . after 14 year of inaction and our most vulnerable child be push to the sideline , their voice not hear , the Bill put their life chance front and centre . we have start that reform already , pilot new financial support for kinship carer and invest over £ 500 million into family help and child protection in the next financial year alone . this a Bill that protect child base on datum , evidence and expertise , lay the groundwork for a single unique identifier for child , enable sharing of the right information at the right time , create multi - agency child protection team and require permission before child subject to child protection inquiry or plan can be home educate . it spot early warning sign and stop vulnerable child fall through the crack . it start with safety and it build from there . the Bill legislate for free breakfast club in primary school , so that our child be ready to learn at the start of the school day . it put money back in parent ' pocket , with breakfast club save they up to £ 450 a year . our new limit on expensive branded uniform will save some parent over £ 50 per child in the back - to - school shop . this be a Government who support family , parent and child alike . it be the right of every child to have every opportunity to succeed , and it be the right of every parent to send their child to a great local school . that be what the Bill will do . it will provide the certainty of an excellent local school for every child . our good school and trust be partner and leader . they have show the value of collaboration , and how excellence and innovation can flow from one classroom to another . it be time to bring that to the whole country : excellence in every classroom , science lab , art studio and music room in every type of school . the curriculum and assessment review publish its interim report just this afternoon . from that review will come the rich and broad curriculum that our child need and deserve , deliver by expert teacher , raise a floor of high standard below which school must not slip , and above which they can build and innovate with no ceiling on what they can achieve . when it come to our child ' s safety and life chance , I be always impatient . I ask Opposition Members to put aside their rhetoric and gimmickry , just for one moment , and consider what their constituent actually want — not their friend in high place , in the commentariat and in the Westminster bubble , but parent up and down this country . parent want qualified teacher at the front of their child ' s classroom . parent want to know for sure what their child be be teach . parent want more teacher in our school , well train and support . parent want free breakfast club in their child ' s primary school . parent want cheap uniform that do not set they back at the start of every term . parent want strong safeguard for child after the horrific incident that we have sadly see in recent year . if Opposition Members oppose the Bill , that be what they be oppose . they may talk in the vague of term about the suppose horror that the Bill will unleash . we have see it all before . just month ago , they tell we that Labour ' s plan to end tax break on private school would send a flood of child into state school , who would overrun they — scaremongere . I have lose count of all the doom - laden story . do they come to pass ? absolutely not . once again , the Conservatives be on the wrong side of parent , resist change and protect privilege . it speak to a wide point . the Conservatives be just lose . they be so out of idea , cling on to the misguided hope that the public will just forget the past 14 year as if they never happen and that it be not all for nothing . but it be . labour be clean up the mess that the conservative party leave behind , to ensure that every child have a safe , love home , to put money back into parent ' pocket , to drive high and rise standard in all our school and to deliver the bright future that every child in our country deserve . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I have hope that , during the Commons stage of the Bill , the Government would listen to the vast number of respected voice from the education sector who have warn repeatedly that this ill thought through Bill be nothing short of a disaster for education standard in this country . unfortunately , the Secretary of State fail to listen to the Children ' s Commissioner , who warn that child will spend long in fail school because of this Bill ; or Katharine Birbalsingh , who argue that if pass — [ interruption . ] that be how they treat one of the good headteacher in this country . she warn that if pass , " the impact on our child , especially our most vulnerable , will be seismic . " the Secretary of State will not listen to the former chief inspector of Ofsted , who describe the Bill as a " many - pronged assault on school standard " , or to Lord Harris , who support the party at the last election and say that the Bill will only harm " the most disadvantaged family . " even some of her own Back Benchers have ask the Secretary of State to think again . why do she think she know well ? instead of engage constructively with that criticism , the approach from the Secretary of State have be to resort to personal attack . in response to Amanda Spielman ' s suggestion that there should be an analysis of the impact of autonomy in school before a legislation abolish it be force through the House of Commons , a Government source go on the record to denigrate a former senior public servant in the most personal of term . do the Secretary of State sign off that briefing ? in her own opinion piece in the Telegraph today , the Secretary of State tell I and the shadow team to get out of London . she appear not to have notice the work of Star Academies , Delta Academies Trust , United Learning , Trinity and Inspiration Trust , among many other . those be brilliant trust that be change the life of young people and she so casually dismiss they . I have a suggestion for the Secretary of State in return : she should visit Wales . Wales , where the Labour Party have be in charge for 26 year ; Wales , the blueprint for her reform ; and Wales , which currently find itself at the bottom of the ranking for the whole of the UK in math , English and science . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster say today that his party would never do anything to harm social mobility , yet the Bill will be devastating for social mobility . Labour Members need to understand the consequence of the Bill . the evidence , should they care to read it , be overwhelming . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say very clearly that the difference in policy and approach have lead to the terrible outcome in Wales for disadvantaged young people . indeed , disadvantaged young people in England do as well as the average child in Wales . yet these be the policy that the Government want to implement in England . how on earth can they justify impose the same policy and approach that have be such a disaster in Wales ? the Bill undermine , at a single stroke , all the work that have be do by successive government of all party , headteacher and trust over so many year . academy trust head have be abuse during this debate and attack by union in this process because they dare to want well for young people under their care . former Labour and Conservative Education Secretaries , who have drive through reform in the face of fierce opposition , be be undermine by the Bill . I can not believe that the Government will undo all of that for no reason . there be no evidence whatsoever that their proposal will improve a single school . in fact , the evidence be clear that they will make thing bad . the Secretary of State be put ideology and the interest of union boss over what be good for child and parent . this be a Bill of two half . the first be on safeguard , and we absolutely agree with the principle of that , but the second be the policy equivalent of a wreck ball . it will destroy the consensus build up over two decade on what improve school . it be discredit , it be disastrous for school standard , and we will never stop fight it . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Chris Coghlan Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Helen Maguire Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Manuela Perteghella Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Anna Turley Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Andrew Snowden Nick Timothy the House divide : Ayes 382 , Noes 104 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Civil Proceedings that the draft Online Procedure Rules ( Specified Proceedings ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 29 January , be approve . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . business of the House ( 19 March ) order , that , at the sitting on Wednesday 19 March , business in the name of the Leader of the opposition shall be treat as be take on an allotted half day provide under paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) of Standing Order no . 14 ( arrangement of public business ) and , notwithstanding paragraph ( 2 ) ( c ) of that Standing Order , may be enter upon at any hour and may be proceed with , though oppose , for three hour ; proceeding shall then lapse if not previously dispose of ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) St Patrick ' s day : UK Bank Holiday Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) it give I huge pleasure to call Jim Shannon . it be always a pleasure to serve under your chairship , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to actually lead the Adjournment debate for a change , rather than just intervene in it . I thank Mr Speaker in particular for grant the debate . I hope to have it last night , but that be not possible , so tonight be the night . I have keep my shamrock from last Wednesday , when my hon . friend the Member for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) and I be at the Champ event . we be give shamrock in a seal package . mine be still moist and very fresh , and I have keep it especially for tonight so I could wear it for the occasion . it be a pleasure to have this opportunity to speak about the potential merit of make St Patrick ' s day a UK bank holiday . I stand as a very proud Unionist who be happy to say that I hope everyone enjoy St Patrick ' s day — they should have . I enjoy it ; I always do . when I start off my life , I be not sure about St Patrick ' s day , because it seem to have be take over by one section of the community , but when I look into the issue , I find out that St Patrick clearly be everybody ' s . for the last 40 or maybe 50 year of my life , I have be promote St Patrick for the purpose of why he be here . I do not think I would have to wait so long to be the first to intervene on my hon . friend . I congratulate he on secure this debate . he be right to highlight the unify element of St Patrick , our patron saint . he mention that he be a Unionist . of course , it be the St Patrick ' s cross that represent we in our national flag . do he believe that the St Patrick ' s cross need to be give great official recognition ? I do , and I will probably mention that in my speech . the reason I be here have absolutely nothing to do with politic . this be all to do with the message of St Patrick and the gospel message . I want to be very clear about that . I love to see the joy on people ' s face and the fun that come from parade and event throughout the year . it be my desire that we ensure that , rather than turn river green for St Patrick , as they do in Chicago and other part of the world , which be all great fun , we focus on the message of St Patrick and why it be important . a few week ago , Beckenham be hit by the tragic loss of Graham Murray . a proud Irishman of Cork , Graham be a stalwart of Beckenham rugby club . he be a large - than - life character and a leader on and off the pitch . he leave behind a four - year - old son , Tadgh , and wife , Aisling , who I meet recently and who be pregnant with their second child . will the hon . member join I in send condolence to Graham ' s family and friend in both Beckenham and Ireland , and also pay tribute to John and everyone at Beckenham rugby club , who have rally round the family and show the good of our community in recent week ? I thank the hon . member , who speak to I beforehand and tell I what he be go to say . as a Christian , like other in the Chamber , my thought and prayer be with the family . he have outline clearly what we should be focus upon . maybe this St Patrick ' s day debate give we a chance to reassure the family of the promise that St Patrick ' s message bring for we all in this Chamber and far afield . I thank he for that . he be a very assiduous MP , and I understand that he have some family in my constituency , in Portaferry to be precise . I thank they for their vote every election , as he tell I — I hope he do not mind I say that . we may be deviate from the topic of the Adjournment debate . I believe that when we look past the myth to the message of the man , few in this House would disagree that the holiday should be UK - wide , as indeed should all the national saint ' day for each nation . St Patrick , the patron saint of Ireland , be bear to a christian family in Wales , in Roman Britain , in the late fourth century ad . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? order . the hon . Lady need to be sit in the appropriate part of the Chamber to make an intervention . Mr Shannon , you should continue . shortly before he be 16 , Patrick be capture from the villa of his father , Calpurnius , by a group of irish raider who take he to Ireland and force he into slavery . six year later , he escape home to Britain , his religious faith strengthen during his time in slavery . the story of St Patrick be a wonderful one . it be a great story of love , of a missionary and of Christianity . I thank the hon . member for give way , and I thank you for your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker — my apology . the legend of St Patrick be a very famous one . we scot like to think he be bear in Kilpatrick in Scotland , but wherever he be bear , the thing he represent , as the hon . Member say , be thing that we can all gather around . I think the fact that the celebration around St Patrick ' s day be so lively probably do have something to do with the fact that , actually , he be scottish . controversial . controversial already , Madam Deputy Speaker ; my goodness . I thank the hon . Lady for that intervention and I will put forward the case that we should all be look to be as one under St Patrick — Scotland , Wales , England and Northern Ireland . believe he have be call by God to Christianise Ireland , St Patrick later return to Ireland as a missionary . how wonderful it be to see the beauty of the Union at work in St Patrick ' s life : a british man who fall in love with the people but , more importantly , whose love for God make he return to the bosom of those who have mistreat he , have be keep in slavery for six year . we all love the story of the little man come good ; we all fight in this House for the wee man and wee woman all the time , and that be the story of St Patrick , a former slave who absolutely change the nation for God and for good . I commend my hon . friend for secure this debate . sadly , many now see St Patrick ' s day as a time for drinking and excess and that be against everything Patrick stand for . do my hon . friend agree that Patrick be in fact ahead of his time , with his exposure of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the fact he tell people about their need of salvation , of the death of Jesus Christ on the Cross and their need of repentance ? so when we wear our shamrock we need not think of the myth and legend but of the true Gospel of Jesus Christ . I be go to come on to that now — my hon . friend be absolutely right . I have long marvel at the way St Patrick make theology understandable for those who have no education , no access to holy book , and no ability to read they . he come with a message of love and action . this be the St Patrick I believe we should celebrate and honour : a man who love Jesus and want the world to know he , not hamper by denomination or doctrine . St Patrick ' s message be as applicable today as it be 1 , 600 year ago . Christ have a plan and a purpose for those who place their trust in he , and those of we who serve he have a purpose to glorify God and to help our fellow man . the cultural history of St Patrick be clear throughout my constituency , with the touch of his message span throughout it . indeed , as we walk through the hallowed hall of Parliament St Patrick ' s prominent position be clear in Central Lobby . I glance up daily with pride at his place within this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , as symbolise along with St David , St Andrew and St George . it be wonderful to have we all together as one within this great United Kingdom . I respect the hon . Gentleman , my celtic brother , in his pride as a Unionist ; of course , I be a proud nationalist , and proof perhaps that the Irish will always rise because I represent a scottish constituency . but do the hon . Gentleman agree that if we be to agree to a UK bank holiday for St Patrick , we might also have to agree for one for St Andrew , St George and St David , and that these matter be more appropriate for the devolve assembly to consider ? we might have different aspiration — one for unity , one for independence — but none the less the hon . Gentleman and I be good friend and have be for a long time , and will continue to be . may I suggest that the next Adjournment debate should be on that very issue ? that be up to the Speaker , Mr Shannon . yes , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on secure the debate . we have already hear the scottish claim St Patrick — I say that in response to the last intervention — we have hear , I believe , the Welsh try to claim he as well , and we know he be our patron saint . perhaps that be why the hon . Gentleman be propose that St Patrick should be the symbolic head for the whole of the United Kingdom . I could not have put it well . that be brilliant ; well do . it be my firm belief that much good for the self - esteem of our young people come from instill in they national pride and identity , but for the benefit of our local economy I would also highlight the good that can come from establish saint ' day as national bank holiday . St Patrick ' s day be celebrate in England , Scotland and Wales , as the beauty of this collection of nation be the strong bond of our shared history . if we travel to Liverpool or Edinburgh we clearly see that there be an appetite to celebrate St Patrick , as there be all over the world and in other part of Scotland , Wales and England . some of my Democratic Unionist party colleague take the opportunity to head to Washington to meet with the President of the United States recently and enjoy build that bond that can only be beneficial to our wee nation base on the share heritage of the US with the UK , and Northern Ireland in particular — we in Northern Ireland use the word " wee " all the time ; it be one of those word that we always use . with the US President have scot root and Vice - President J . d . vance have Ulster Scots heritage , what well time for those who care for Northern Ireland and want to see a prosperous relationship build with the Americans , which will be mutually beneficial ? I be aware of US company that enjoy our skilled workforce , along with our low business rate , good connectivity and high quality of life for staff . the fact that the famous Chick - fil - a ' s first UK restaurant be in Northern Ireland speak volume about what could be accomplish between our nation . I love chicken , I have to say ; I think it be okay to eat that as a diabetic — at least , I think it be . I thank our Deputy First Minister and the Economy Minister for their visit to the US to solidify that beneficial relationship . they , more than other , understand the value of relationship , rather than pointless grandstanding or point scoring . while the Americans will have no idea or care for those who believe that they be above the US - Northern Ireland trade link , they will have a clear picture of who come and what they have to offer . to I , that be again reminiscent of the message of St Patrick : the hand of friendship to all . that be the hand of friendship that I hand out to everyone in this Chamber , and who in turn hand it back to I . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for the extension of his hand of friendship . he touch on the Economy Minister and the Deputy First Minister be in Washington , but will he extend that acknowledgment to the Health Minister , who I believe be also in Washington last week ? I hope that hand of friendship extend to the Speaker . yes , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Health Minister be there as well . I be very respectful of other who be there who I have not name , but I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I can think of two or three name , but I will not mention they . I do not believe that we have fully grasp the potential merit in make St Patrick ' s day a totally global phenomenon , not just for city across the world to enjoy , but for people to come and enjoy in each of our four nation . the saint — the man from Britain — who bond we all could and should be promote by we all . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the significance of the origin of St Patrick , a british saint bear in Roman Britain , possibly near the end of the 4th century , combine with his last contribution to religion , culture and history across the United Kingdom , underscore the value of recognise a UK national holiday in his name ? the hon . Gentleman and I have be friend for many year , long before he be elect to this House and before he be a Member of the Legislative Assembly , back when we be representative on the council many moon ago . his word have add emphasis to what we be try to achieve . I truly believe the first step in recognise the tie that bind be to make St Patrick ' s day a UK holiday . with that in mind , I be pleased to see the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) , in his place . he speak to I last night and say , " I be look forward to your debate " , and he have smile the whole way through . I be quite sure his response will be one that will help we . I attend the Irish Fest in Milwaukee for some six year as an Ulster Scot . may I give the hon . member the opportunity to correct the record ? St Patrick be bear in Kilpatrick , in Clydebank , in my constituency of West Dunbartonshire , in the year 387 . more importantly , my wife , Alison Patricia McAllister , be bear on St Patrick ' s day and she celebrate her birthday on Monday . do the hon . Member agree that she deserve a holiday every year on her birthday ? [ interruption . ] no , I can not say that in the Chamber — it would be unfair . but I can say that I wish the hon . Gentleman ' s wife many happy return . I be sure that when the hon . Gentleman be here she be probably more happy than ever — [ Laughter . ] I say that in jest . the hon . Gentleman be extend birthday wish to those who celebrate on 17 March . my father have his birthday on 17 March , so may I invite my honourable colleague to send he happy birthday wish too ? of course I will . I know the hon . Gentleman long before he become a member . he and I have be friend for four or five year . we correspond on an app regularly , I follow his progress as a councillor and I very much welcome he to the Chamber . I look forward to his friendship throughout our time here . I wish his dad every happiness on his birthday . for the record and as a matter of accuracy , when the hon . Gentleman talk about app , he mean WhatsApp . [ laughter . ] I be not technically minded , but the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . I congratulate the hon . Gentleman . I will be clear that St Patrick be not bear in Stoke - on - Trent — of that , I think we can all be certain . in genuine sincerity , the fact that we be all here this evening in joyful spirit discuss the potential for St Patrick ' s day to be a UK bank holiday demonstrate the importance of the nation ' s saint in bring people together . the hon . Gentleman talk about teach our child to help they to understand their identity . too often , the St George ' s cross be misappropriate by people for nefarious mean . it be our flag and we own it , just as the St Patrick ' s cross be the flag of the hon . Gentleman , and it be important that we use and celebrate they . I think he will agree that by do so , we can teach our child about their history and their future . the hon . Gentleman always bring wise word to any debate . I talk to he on Monday in Westminster Hall , when he get up and say that he have a few comment . I be greatly impress by his contribution — I go over to he afterwards and say that his word be very wise — and his word now be also wise . the point I will make about the Milwaukee Irish Fest that I attend for some six year , as an Ulster Scot , be that I do not have any difficulty go there , and they have no difficulty with I go there . what I see in St Patrick be the gospel that he bring for everybody , wherever they be within these celtic nation , be it Wales , Scotland or England . those be the thing that we very much enjoy . I will end with these word ; I be very conscious that the Minister want to give I a fulsome response and to reinforce our request . the word of St Patrick be what I leave with everyone now . I want to make the most of the advantage of our heritage of St Patrick , but , more than that , I want the truth of his word to make change in we all today , and that come from the love of Christ , which be his message the whole way through . I believe we as Christians should impress and deliver that message to those who we meet in this House . I have a very simple philosophy : be nice to everybody . it be not hard to be kind and to do that in the good way that we can . St Patrick ' s word be these : " Christ with I , Christ before I , Christ behind I , Christ in I , Christ beneath I , Christ above I , Christ on my right , Christ on my left , Christ where I lie down , Christ where I sit down , Christ where I arise , Christ in the heart of every man who think of I , Christ in the mouth of every one who speak of I , Christ in every eye that see I , Christ in every ear that hear I . " if we have those thought in our mind every day , I believe that we would be well as a nation , well to ourselves as individual and show the love that St Patrick show through the gospel that he bring from Wales , to Ireland , back to England and back to we again . he be our patron saint ; he always will be . other may claim he , but they be not get he — I say that in all kindness and love to the hon . member for West Dunbartonshire ( Douglas McAllister ) . tonight we be ask for something , and I hope that the Minister can give we a good , positive response . I thank all right hon . and hon . member for make the time to come to the Adjournment debate that I do not intervene in — my goodness . we be wait for a positive response from the Minister . I congratulate the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) on secure this Adjournment debate . I know that he be not familiar with the operation of Adjournment debate , so I be glad that he have find his way here this evening . if he want to intervene , he will have about 10 minute to do so — we would not want that streak to be break , would we ? I wish the hon . Gentleman and everyone a belated but very happy St Patrick ' s day . I enjoy hear his contribution on what St Patrick ' s day mean to he and to his community in Northern Ireland . I know that he have speak very passionately about this subject on a number of occasion , as we would expect . in preparation for this debate , I contact my family historian — my mum — to understand my irish root . go back several generation , I have a fair bit over there , so I be pleased to report that I have one pint of Guinness yesterday to mark the occasion . the Government appreciate the deep cultural and religious significance of St Patrick ' s day to many nationalist and Unionists across Northern Ireland , some of whom revere St Patrick for his role in the arrival and growth of Christianity on the island . as the hon . member for Strangford say , he be for everybody . it be also a cherished day for those who serve and have serve in the irish regiment of the British Army , with the annual presentation of the shamrock to the Irish Guards by member of the royal family . the familial relationship with Ireland and Northern Ireland be so important to people across the UK , as it be to this Government . by way of just one example , our NHS be strong for the contribution of the many irish national who serve in it today and have do since its founding . the most recent statistic , from June 2023 , show that nearly 14 , 000 member of NHS staff be irish , include doctor , nurse , and of course support staff . follow the recent general election in Ireland , the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and the t á naiste have discuss the strength of the bilateral relationship , our shared commitment to the Good Friday agreement , and the importance of uphold political stability in Northern Ireland . we have also increase engagement between the two government , especially through the new Prime Minister - Taoiseach summit . the first of those summit take place on 5 March , about a mile from where I live in my constituency , although for some reason my invite do not quite reach I — I do not know why that be . it be clear from that summit that the Prime Minister and the Taoiseach have agree a joint vision for co - operation through to 2030 , which will bring our two country together like never before . through the british - Irish Intergovernmental Conference and the british - Irish Council , we engage regularly with the Irish Government and the Northern Ireland Executive on matter of share concern . of course , many people across the world look forward to the annual St Patrick ' s day celebration , which showcase the significant contribution of irish people . this year , we see parade through the city of Belfast , Cardiff , Glasgow , Liverpool and Leeds , and here in London in Trafalgar Square . will the Minister give way ? if the hon . Member want to intervene , he know how to . I think it be important that I should do so , although I want to do so anyway . the diaspora in England , Scotland and Wales be massive . it be not just in the NHS , as the Minister have refer to ; it be also in the construction business . whenever I come over on the plane from Belfast or return , I see worker go over to build in London and then go back on the weekend . the diaspora include farmer and businessman . the connection between England , Scotland , Wales , Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland be enormous , and may I say , Minister , that the diaspora want to have St Patrick ' s day as a UK bank holiday as well . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I be sure that if I do some polling , there would be support , but I will come on to some of the reason why we may not be able to grant he his wish on this occasion . during the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland ' s recent visit to Washington , he participate in the annual St Patrick ' s day event and engage with the US Administration , congressional member , business leader and key stakeholder . he promote Northern Ireland as a fantastic place to invest , work and live , highlight its unique access to both the UK ' s internal market and the EU ' s single market . I be very pleased that the Under - Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , my hon . friend the Member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , be in the Chamber tonight . she have be very active during St Patrick ' s season , attend reception for community and business leader in Stormont and Westminster . l á fh é ile P á draig sona daoibh go l é ir — happy St Patrick ' s day . St Patrick ' s day be a time to bring people together , often in our local pub . will the Minister join I in thank irish pub landlord up and down the country , include Michael Duffy and Joe Duffy , who run the Chancery and the Jolly Woodman in Beckenham ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate the Duffys on operate those pub . I wonder whether he will be visit they shortly to remind they of the good publicity he have give to a local business in his constituency . turn to the nub of the hon . member for Strangford ' s speech , St Patrick ' s day be of course already a bank holiday in Northern Ireland , provide its people with the opportunity to mark that important cultural and religious occasion . the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 specifie which day in each year be bank holiday , and contain provision for appoint additional or substitute day . that Act designate 17 March as a bank holiday in Northern Ireland . the decision to create an additional bank holiday in Northern Ireland for St Patrick ' s day be take against the backdrop of Northern Ireland ' s economic , social , cultural and legal system . the current pattern of bank holiday be well establish , and I be afraid that the Government do not have any plan to extend the St Patrick ' s day bank holiday to other part of the UK . Bank holiday be devolve to the Scottish Government , so Scottish Ministers be responsible for decision about bank holiday in Scotland . I will therefore speak about the merit of a St Patrick ' s day bank holiday in Wales and England only . an additional bank holiday in England and Wales for St Patrick ' s day would benefit those who celebrate it , include member of the irish diaspora in the UK . certain sector of the economy , such as pub and restaurant , might also benefit from increase expenditure on a bank holiday . it be a significant tourism draw to Northern Ireland , too , so I would expect that extend the bank holiday would draw more visitor from England and Wales over there . however , the overall cost to the economy of an additional bank holiday be considerable . the late analysis estimate that the cost to the UK economy of a one - off bank holiday be around £ 2 billion . that estimate be derive from the impact assessment for the platinum jubilee bank holiday weekend hold in 2022 . an additional bank holiday would also impact on public service . Bank holiday require the closure of school , court and tribunal . it may disrupt certain NHS service , such as routine operation . I also point out that there be no statutory right to time off for bank or public holiday specifically . any right to time off or extra pay for work on a bank holiday depend on the term of an employee ' s contract of employment , and like other term and condition of employment , it be a matter for negotiation between employer and worker . even if the St Patrick ' s day bank holiday be extend to England and Wales , not all worker would be able to take it off . for example , many NHS and emergency service worker , many of whom we have already hear be from Ireland , might still be require to work . we regularly receive request for bank holiday to mark various historical , cultural , religious and sporting event . many people bear on the island of Ireland , whether north or south , like my wife , make Newcastle - under - Lyme their home . like many of they , I be celebrate St Patrick ' s day at the weekend at the Sneyd Arms on Higherland , an excellent local pub . as the Minister have just touch on other bank holiday , will he find time at some other stage to meet I to discuss the benefit of make St George ' s day a bank holiday ? my hon . friend tempt I to talk about another bank holiday , but I be afraid that there would be the same argument about the economic cost , although I think we should celebrate St George ' s day more in this country . although we have no plan for a St Patrick ' s day bank holiday in England and Wales , the Government strongly encourage employer to respond flexibly to any request for leave , be that to celebrate St Patrick ' s day or any other significant religious or cultural event , whether that be Diwali , Vaisakhi , Magna Carta day , Remembrance Day or St George ' s day . it be important that we can take time out to celebrate these event . I thank the hon . member for Strangford for secure this important debate . the message of unity that he come to we with from St Patrick be one that I share with he . question put and agree to . House adjourn .