Oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — Living Standards what step she plan to take to help improve living standard . what step she plan to take to help improve living standard . what step she plan to take to help improve living standard . what step she plan to take to help improve living standard . this be likely to be the last time that the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , be up against I at the Dispatch Box . we have have the privilege of these exchange for just over two year now , and I have a huge amount of respect for he . he steer our country through a very difficult time after the mini - Budget , and I wish he well in whatever he choose to do next . if UK living standard , as measure by real household disposable income per capita , have grow by the same amount between 2010 and 2023 as they do between 1997 and 2010 , the amount would have be over £ 4 , 000 high in 2023 . we be commit to boost economic growth to turn that around . although it will have be welcome news for million of family that inflation be now below 2 % , there be still more to do . early this month , we deliver our first international investment summit , announce over £ 60 billion of investment and unlock nearly 38 , 000 job in the UK , all focus on create and spread opportunity to lift living standard . the Conservatives oversee a living standard disaster . in place such as Hexham , Prudhoe and Throckley in my constituency , people see hardly any improvement to their income in over 14 year . surely the clear sign of whether government be work be whether work people feel well off . do the Chancellor agree that paper over Tory failure be not enough , and that in tomorrow ' s Budget we must reset the foundation of our economy ? my hon . friend be right : the previous Parliament be the bad ever record for living standard . tomorrow ' s Budget be an opportunity to fix that and turn the page so that we can start deliver for family in Hexham and all around the country . the bottom 50 % of the population own less than 5 % of wealth in 2021 , while the top 10 % stack up 57 % of it — up from 52 . 5 % in 1995 . in our community , the less well - off be struggle with energy price and other cost . what will the Government do to ensure that the gap close ? we have already announce the child poverty taskforce , which be work to publish a comprehensive strategy to tackle child poverty . we will publish that strategy in spring next year . we have also provide £ 500 million , include the Barnett impact , to extend the household support fund in England until the end of March next year , which will help the most vulnerable household to cover the cost of essential such as food , energy and water . shamefully , under the last Conservative Government , the need for food bank soar to level even high than during the pandemic . recent research show that in my Bathgate and Linlithgow constituency , the number of food parcel distribute have rise by 77 % over the past five year , and that in 2022 - 23 , 27 % of child be live in poverty after housing cost . what step be the Government take to reduce the need for food bank in the context of child poverty ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and congratulate she on her great work on the Co - op ' s food justice policy . as she know , we be right behind she in our commitment to raise living standard across the country . we make a manifesto commitment to update the remit of the Low Pay Commission so that , for the first time ever , it will take into account the cost of live when make recommendation about the minimum wage . as my right hon . friend will be aware , coastal community such as mine struggle with a low - pay , low - skill economy . do she acknowledge the importance of the minimum wage in tackle this problem and support our community and local economy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be why we will ensure that the Low Pay Commission take into account the cost of living , and why we will close the gap between the youth rate of minimum wage and the overall rate , so that all adult can be pay a fair wage for their work . the live standard of a 90 - year - old pensioner on a £ 13 , 500 income be fall sharply this winter as a result of the Chancellor ' s decision to take away the winter fuel allowance . tomorrow , she have the chance to increase the threshold . will she take it ? as the hon . Lady know , because of our commitment to the triple lock , the basic state pension and the new state pension will continue to rise . this winter , the new state pension be worth £ 900 more than it be a year ago , and it be likely to rise by a furth £ 450 next April . indeed , during the course of this Parliament , because of the triple lock , the new state pension be likely to be worth £ 1 , 700 more — much more than the value of the winter fuel payment . I be sure that the Treasury be pleased to receive £ 1 . 5 billion in a windfall tax from Octopus Energy . would the Chancellor consider use that money to reinstate the winter fuel allowance for one year until the Treasury have have the opportunity to find a well system of means - testing , so that my vulnerable resident and pensioner in Chichester be not fall off a cliff edge this winter ? I can understand the hon . member ' s concern , but of course , that £ 1 . 5 billion be already bake into the forecast — it be not new money to spend on initiative . as she know , we inherit a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance ; we will set out the detail of that at the Budget tomorrow , but because of that , we have have to make very difficult choice . even in those difficult circumstance , though , we have protect the winter fuel payment for the most vulnerable pensioner who be on pension credit . we have also boost the uptake of pension credit , so that people get the support they be entitle to . resident of Joseph Rowntree ' s St Ellens Court all gather recently to tell I about the devastating impact that the cut in the winter fuel payment will have on their living standard , and people in Withernsea gather Saturday last to demonstrate against it . tomorrow , the Chancellor can do the right thing ; will she ? I be sure the right hon . Gentleman tell they about the £ 22 billion gap in the public finance that his government leave , which have require the difficult decision this Government have have to make to clean up the mess leave by the conservative party . with the promise £ 300 cut in energy bill not materialise , the winter fuel payment scrap for pensioner , and now the bus cap lift for work people — whatever definition of that term the Chancellor be use today — can she honestly say that living standard will improve for everybody under this government ? on the bus price cap specifically , the hon . Member will know that the previous Government put no money in to extend that cap . we have put money in to ensure that the bus price cap remain at an affordable level for people , unlike the previous Government , who just have short - term gimmick . Pension Credit : processing of Applications what estimate she have make with Cabinet colleague of the additional funding need to process pension credit application within target timescale . the Department for Work and Pensions have deploy 500 additional staff to process pension credit application as quickly as possible , and I encourage all pensioner who might be eligible to apply by 21 December . as the hon . Gentleman know , that benefit can be backdate by three month , and can passport pensioner to other benefit . I be very grateful for the Minister ' s answer . I put in a write question to find out how long this would take , and almost one in four people who apply for pension credit be wait long than 50 working day for their application to be pick up , which take we past Christmas and into the new year . that be before the 150 % increase in application refer to in the datum release by the Government , so although I be pleased to hear that there be 500 more staff , could we hear how much extra funding be go in immediately to make sure those application be process this side of Christmas ? otherwise , pensioner be really go to struggle . I be very pleased to say that there have be a 152 % increase in the number of pensioner who be apply for pension credit . that be good news , and be a result of the pension credit awareness campaign that we have be run since early September . we be put in place all the resource we can to process claim as quickly as possible . I call the shadow Minister . we on the conservative Benches be deeply concerned about all those who will lose their winter fuel payment under Labour . some pensioner will keep the winter fuel payment if they claim pension credit , but we know that some will not apply or will have difficulty apply . can the Minister confirm how many people the Treasury assume be eligible for pension credit but will not claim it , therefore lose their winter fuel payment , and what be the Treasury do to close that gap ? as the hon . Gentleman will understand , the estimate of how many people might be eligible for pension credit be an imperfect science — they be base on a survey . mean - testing what be a very complex benefit , as all mean - test benefit be , require an assessment of not only people ' s income but their saving ; it be about pensioner household unit , too , so it be a complex set of procedure . all I can say be that I be glad we be target support at those most in need , something that be outline in the 2017 conservative party manifesto , which state : " we will mean - test Winter Fuel Payments , focus assistance on the least well - off pensioner , who be most at risk of fuel poverty . " I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as the newly appoint Treasury spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats , this be my first opportunity to welcome the Chancellor and Ministers to their place . notwithstanding that , on the winter fuel payment , the Government need to think again . I recently speak with representative of Citizens Advice in St Albans , who be deeply concerned that letter from the Department for Work and Pensions will be send out only in December to people that it believe be eligible , mean that many people may lose out . we have urge the Government to either reverse the cut and make it taxable or look at , for example , raise the pension credit limit . could the Government confirm whether they be go to look again at any of the measure that we have suggest ? I welcome the hon . Lady to her place . I reassure she that we be write to all pensioner — I do not know where she get that misinformation from — about the change in policy . for the first time , we be also write to all pensioner in receipt of housing benefit to encourage they to claim for pension credit . we have also make a steadfast commitment to the triple lock , which will mean that the new full state pension will be worth around £ 1 , 700 more over this Parliament . we have extend the household support fund , which local authority can use to help people who be on low income and struggle with their fuel bill . we have also ensure that the warm home discount scheme will provide £ 150 for low - income household , include pensioner . Economic Investment and Growth what step she be take to increase long - term investment in the economy . what progress she have make on increase economic growth . what progress she have make on increase economic growth . what progress she have make on increase economic growth . the Government ' s growth mission will counteract 14 year of sluggish economic growth , kick - start a decade of national renewal . we have waste no time in get to work : we have already launch the national wealth fund , introduce reform to the planning system , and host the international investment summit , secure more than £ 63 billion of investment across the United Kingdom . work continue , and I look forward to update the House on our next step for growth in tomorrow ' s Budget . as co - chair of the Labour Growth Group , I welcome the Chancellor ' s decision to unleash a revolution in investment in Britain , but the capital we must invest in be not just physical but digital . for year , Conservative Members cut capital investment in technology , depress productivity and leave worker with less money in their pocket . what step be the Chancellor take to boost long - term investment , especially in digital and technology ? I thank my hon . friend for his excellent work as co - chair of the Labour Growth Group . I know that he be passionate about how we can use datum to boost productivity and improve public service , and he be work with Wigan council and his local NHS trust to build data - drive tool to well deliver preventive healthcare . the Government recognise that attract private investment into digital and technology be crucial for drive growth , which be why we have already prioritise they in the modern industrial strategy to ensure that we be create the right condition for investment . since the Government take office , we have be pleased to welcome more than £ 25 billion of investment into UK datum centre , help to create thousand of job and meet the grow demand for datum , artificial intelligence and machine learning . do the Chancellor agree that a modern nhs that be fit for the future be essential to our country ' s economic growth ? will she find time to visit the new Pears Cumbria School of Medicine when it open in Carlisle next year ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I absolutely recognise the important role of the NHS and the health of our nation in get people back to work and in boost the economy . that be why in tomorrow ' s Budget we will set out further detail of how we will increase the number of elective appointment per week , deliver one of the Government ' s first step in office to reduce waiting time in the NHS . I be delighted to meet Professor Hugh Brady from Imperial College London at the international investment summit . he share the detail of important plan to partner with the University of Cumbria to help the next generation of medical professional in my hon . friend ' s constituency and to address staffing shortfall and healthcare need in the area . I commend her work in this important area . high street in Lichfield and Burntwood in my constituency be let down as , for 14 year , the conservative party fiddle while our high street economy burn . can the Chancellor assure I that regenerate high street , as the physical manifestation of how well our economy be do , be a priority for this Treasury ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place , and he be do a great job for the people of Lichfield . this Government be commit to deliver a decade of national renewal and ensure that growth and prosperity be feel everywhere in our country . we will work in partnership with business and local community to rejuvenate our high street , which be the lifeblood of our local community , include those in Lichfield and Burntwood . as part of this , we plan to introduce new power to help fill vacant property through high street rental auction . we know that this be such an important issue for so many of our constituency . thousand of my constituent in Chelsea and Fulham come from European Union country , and they be all passionate about the UK economy do well . do the Chancellor agree that , for the UK to achieve its full economic growth potential , we need to deepen our trading link with the European Union ? if she do , will can she say how the Treasury be work with other Government Departments to achieve this ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . since take office , this Government have be work to reset our relationship with our european friend and neighbour . the Prime Minister recently meet the President of the European Commission and agree to strengthen the UK - EU relationship to address global challenge such as the economic headwind , geopolitical competition , irregular migration , climate change and energy price . improve our relationship will be good for business and good for consumer . I be not go to ask the Chancellor to pre - empt tomorrow ' s Budget , although I might actually have some luck if I do , base on current form . instead , can she confirm to I that she fully appreciate how important agricultural property relief and business property relief be to the farmer and family business that do so much to grow local economy across the country ? I recognise the importance of be able to pass on to the next generation the asset people have build up , and we will be set out more detail on all of our tax policy in the Budget tomorrow . shared prosperity funding have be use by local authority such as Fife council to drive economic growth , particularly through support for small business . that funding be due to end in April 2025 . can we get a commitment from the government that fund for these kind of scheme will continue ? we will set out more detail in the Budget tomorrow , include the consequential that will go to the Scottish Government . investment require a measure of optimism , not the collapse in business confidence that the Chancellor have engineer . she would have do well to stress some of the positive that she inherit , wouldn ' t she ? it be good to have an explanation of how to do my job from one of the Conservative Members who crash our economy . some £ 63 . 5 billion of investment into the UK be announce at our international investment summit — investment in life science , investment in data centre and digital , investment in clean energy — because business have confidence that this government be bring stability back to our economy and work with business to seize the opportunity . I be really excited about do that in all part of our country and work with business to do so . can the Chancellor tell we , to the near £ 10 billion , how much extra would be available for long - term investment be it not for the fire sale of UK Government bond by the Bank of England , cost the taxpayer dearly ? I start my career as an economist at the Bank of England , and unlike Conservative Members , I think it be incredibly important to recognise the independence of our economic institution , include the Bank of England and , indeed , the Office for Budget Responsibility . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . small business be the engine of our economy , but many of they be penalise for invest in their business because of the break business rate system . will the Chancellor ensure that investment be exempt from business rate , and will she ensure that the Budget tomorrow be the final Budget in which business rate be a permanent feature ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , and I too welcome she to her place . small business and high street business be the lifeblood of all of our community , include her in St Albans , and it be important that we support they . in our manifesto , we commit to reform of our business rate system . I will be set out more detail in the Budget yesterday tomorrow , as well as a business tax road map , which will give business certainty about the tax environment they will be work with for the next five year . Northern Powerhouse what fiscal step she be take to encourage investment in the northern powerhouse . investment — [ interruption . ] I be delighted to be welcome by those on the Opposition Benches , and be pleased to see they in their place as well . investment be a key part of the Government ' s growth mission , alongside stability and reform . by ensure adherence to robust fiscal rule and respect for our economic institution , we be build the confidence need to deliver great investment across the country . I thank the Minister for that response . a key part of the northern powerhouse agenda be investment in our rail infrastructure , and resident in my constituency be excited that Cheadle train station finally get planning approval recently . however , recent talk of cut to infrastructure investment have cause concern . can the Minister assure we that Cheadle train station be safe and will go ahead ? the Government be fully commit to ensure that investment in all part of the UK , include the north of England , create growth and impact for work people . the north of England be home to crucial lever to achieve this , as evidence by our recent announcement on Teesside and Merseyside , which will create thousand of job and secure long - term future . the detail of individual project will be confirm in due course . the creation of the national wealth fund , and the record success of the £ 63 billion of investment announce at the investment summit , come on top of investment that minister have just announce in carbon capture in the north - west . those be example of the success — order . the hon . Gentleman be a very good member who have be here a long time . please try to look at I occasionally ; it would be helpful . the successful investment announce be a great example of this Government deliver job and economic growth , in the north of England and across the country . do my right hon . friend agree that this be in stark contrast to the abysmal record of the conservative party in its 14 year in government ? my hon . friend rightly point out that this country face a choice : investment or decline . as we see at the general election , it choose investment , and that be what the Government will deliver . Economic Productivity what step she be take to increase economic productivity . what step she be take to increase economic productivity in the Black Country . increase economic productivity be a key mission in the Labour Government ' s growth agenda . after 14 year of weak productivity , depressed living standard and unfunded spending commitment , we be adamant about bring our country into an upward trajectory , use the national wealth fund and the significant planning reform that we be bring together to ensure a decade of national renewal for our country . across the UK , the hospitality sector generate £ 93 billion per year . in my constituency , there be many example of local entrepreneur , include on the old town ' s High Street and in our neighbourhood centre , who provide an excellent service for resident and visitor alike . what can my hon . friend do to help our hospitality service grow in Stevenage and across the UK ? I be fully aware of the asset of my hon . friend ' s constituency , include the neighbourhood centre that he mention , and the surround village , which host amazing music festival . I recognise the contribution of the hospitality sector in Stevenage to the UK economy , and I know he be a great champion of the borough business club . I be confident that our Government ' s growth mission will ensure that hospitality business in Stevenage continue to grow . the Government look forward to work with organisation such as ukhospitality to facilitate that . " invest 2035 : the UK ' s modern industrial strategy " identify advanced manufacturing as a growth - drive sector . manufacturing in Dudley account for 40 . 4 % of job ; that be double the national average . what step be the Government take to support and revitalise the manufacturing sector in Dudley , give its historical significance to the local economy , and its potential contribution to the UK ' s overall industrial strategy ? as my hon . friend rightly say , we identify advanced manufacturing as a growth - drive sector in the recently publish industrial strategy Green Paper . I know how important manufacturing centre such as the Very Light Rail National Innovation Centre be to Dudley and the UK economy . we be commit to support advanced manufacturing through the industrial strategy , which , alongside sector plan , will be develop in partnership with business and stakeholder ahead of publication in spring 2025 . I hope that she will contribute to that . job will be at the heart of our industrial strategy , back by employment right that be fit for a modern economy . invest in transport infrastructure will boost productivity , so be the Chancellor listen to member from across the east of England and across the House , and will she back the Ely junction rail upgrade , which deliver benefit of £ 5 for every £ 1 invest ? as the hon . Member will know , the Chancellor listen carefully to everything that be say in the Chamber , and I be sure that she have note what he have say . we in Northern Ireland be tell that , as a result of have dual access to the EU market and the United Kingdom market , we would see an increase in inward investment and economic productivity . recently , Invest NI have have to admit that there have be no uptick in investment , because access to the EU market be counteract by barrier from the GB market — that be clear . do the Government now recognise that that be a mis - sell proposition ? I think we be mis - sell a lot of thing by the previous Government , if that be what the hon . Member be talk about . I remind he that we have the investment summit recently , where we secure £ 63 billion of private investment , create more than 38 , 000 job . that be more than double what the previous Government secure in 2023 . Energy Bills : support for Households what fiscal step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help support household with energy bill . household energy bill have fall by 30 % since their peak , and be now around £ 800 low for a typical household . this Government be commit to improve the quality and sustainability of our housing stock through our warm home plan , further detail of which will be set out through the spending review . that will be vital in make sure that the UK be more energy - resilient , in lower household bill and in meet our 2050 net zero commitment . give that many constituent of mine in Woking and across the country live in fuel poverty and be fearful of lose their winter fuel allowance , do the Minister or the Chancellor agree that target support for low - income family and household should be include in tomorrow ' s Budget or in the warm home plan , so that no one have to decide between eat and heat this winter ? the hon . Gentleman can see our commitment to support vulnerable household with the cost of energy and food in our extension of the household support fund , at a cost of half a billion pound , from the end of September to the end of March . that will allow local authority to help low - income family with the cost of essential , such as food and energy . this nation experience the high rise in energy bill of all G7 country after Putin invade Ukraine , because the Conservatives leave we dependent on natural gas and with the worst - insulate home in western Europe . can the Minister assure I that we will invest in the clean energy and home insulation that we need to lower energy bill for good ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that while it be essential that we tackle high energy bill now , it be also essential that we invest for the future to bring energy bill down for good . critical to that be invest in our housing stock , as I have mention , but also , through GB Energy , in sustainable energy source to make sure we improve our energy security and bring bill down for family across the country . sustainable Public Finances what step she be take to help ensure sustainable public finance . in July , a Treasury assessment of public spending show that this Government inherit a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . I take immediate action — [ interruption . ] those on the Opposition Benches may not like it , but it be true . [ interruption . ] order . I can not hear the Chancellor , and I will hear the Chancellor . there be not many conservative Members , but they still make quite a lot of noise . I take immediate action by identify saving and make reform to the spending and fiscal framework to ensure that never again can a Government be allow to make unfunded commitment , and to leave their successor with a massive black hole , as the Leader of the Opposition and the previous Chancellor do . as my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say to the House yesterday , the Budget will confirm the detail of the robust fiscal rule — this be set out in our manifesto — and will set out tax and spending plan , alongside an update forecast from the independent Office for Budget Responsibility . do my right hon . friend agree that be honest and transparent about the state of public finance be the right thing to do , and that have a long - term plan to fix the foundation of our economy and the public finance be preferable to the short - term , chaotic approach take by the SNP in Scotland , which have lead to three consecutive year of emergency in - year budget cut ? this Government be commit to sustainable public finance , unlike two of the opposition party . a stable economy build on stable public finance be a key foundation for growth , which be why Labour be on the Government Benches , and the SNP and the Tories be on the Opposition Benches . the robust fiscal rule set out in our manifesto will put the public finance on a sustainable path , so that we can move the budget into balance , with day - to - day cost be meet by revenue , and get debt fall as a share of our economy . give our challenge inheritance , that will require difficult choice , but this Government will make they to fix the foundation of our economy . the last government leave Eastbourne borough council in a position in which it spend 49p in every pound it collect in council tax on temporary accommodation . we need a solution , because that be not sustainable for council or family . will the Chancellor commit to support council with the cost of temporary accommodation , and to invest in prevent homelessness in the first place ? the hon . member be absolutely right : the number of people house in temporary accommodation be a scandal , and the amount that cost taxpayer in Eastbourne and around the country be a double scandal . we make a commitment in our manifesto to build 1 . 5 million home during this Parliament . conservative Members oppose that , but we be determined to do it , because that be the way to bring down the cost of temporary accommodation and ensure that all family have a safe and secure roof over their head . my right hon . friend be right about the challenge it will be for the Government to balance the public finance . a stiff target of 2 % in - year efficiency saving have be set for Departments . what be she do to make sure that the target be robustly apply , and that Departments do not game it by put off decision , which will end up cost more ? I thank the Chair of the Treasury Committee for that question . she be absolutely right that in our July statement , we set a 2 % productivity target , not just for the Department of Health and Social Care , as the previous Government do , but for all Departments . minister be absolutely determined to deliver against those target , because that be the way to ensure that we have resource for the frontline public service — our school , hospital and police — that we all rely on . under the last government , the Chancellor say that interest rate and gilt yield be drive by government policy . will the Chancellor guarantee that neither will rise high than they do under the Conservatives ? the last Government crash the economy with a mini - Budget and send interest rate and mortgage rate soar , put huge pressure on the cost bear by family and business . we will set out our Budget tomorrow , include robust fiscal rule on pay for day - to - day spending through tax receipt and borrow only to invest , whereas the previous Government borrow for day - to - day spending , which be why we be in the mess we be in today . I call the shadow Minister . last Wednesday , in Washington , the Chancellor announce change to the debt rule to allow Labour to borrow more . however , publish Treasury advice say that increase borrowing risk interest rate stay higher for long . do the Chancellor agree with her Treasury civil servant ? last week , when I be in Washington , I be very pleased to hear the International Monetary Fund say how important it be that country , include the UK , borrow to invest in their capital infrastructure . under the plan we inherit from the previous Government , capital spending as a share of GDP be due to fall from 2 . 6 % to 1 . 7 % . if those decision be to go forward , it would mean plan delay and cancel . we will set out our plan tomorrow in the Budget , but it be crucial that we have rule ensure that we pay for day - to - day spending through tax receipt , and that we borrow only to invest , unlike the previous Government . investor Confidence what assessment she have make of the potential impact of recent fiscal event on investor confidence in the UK . the conservative party oversaw year of chaos , which cost not only family but business . the Government be commit to deliver the economic stability need for investor confidence . our commitment to a credible Budget , strong institution and robust fiscal rule be at the heart of that plan . early this month , we announce a record - break £ 63 . 5 billion of investment at our international investment summit . that show that the UK can attract investment from around the world , to boost job and growth here in Britain , through serious , stable government policy . when do the Chancellor think that the conservative party lose its fiscal credibility ? be it with the Liz Truss mini - Budget ? [ interruption . ] be it when national debt rise from 65 % to nearly 100 % of gdp ? or be it when they make the farcical promise to abolish national insurance ? order . who want to go for that cup of tea ? normally this happen at Prime Minister ' s question ; I do not want it start in Treasury question . all of the above . that be why my hon . friend be in his place and Conservative Members be on the Opposition Benches . if the Chancellor want to increase investor confidence , the thing to do be help small and medium - sized enterprise . tomorrow she will have the opportunity to do that . what will be do to help they ? in Northern Ireland , 85 % of business employ 10 or few employee . if she help the sme in Northern Ireland , that will increase employment . I know that the hon . Gentleman be a proud supporter of business big and small in his constituency and across Northern Ireland . I will set out more detail in tomorrow ' s Budget , include on business rate , but I recognise how important it be for we to support small business , so that they can grow and create job right across the United Kingdom . I call the shadow Minister . clearly , the Chancellor be desperately try to raise old ghost , along with debt and taxis , but her own broken promise be come back to haunt she and be frightening investor . it do not have to be Halloween for socialist to spook british business . why do she think that business confidence have fall fast in the past three month than at any point since the pandemic ? I would judge this Government on their record : we secure £ 63 . 5 billion of investment right across the United Kingdom , create nearly 40 , 000 job in constituency up and down our country — good job that pay decent wage . that be more than twice the investment that the previous Government secure at their international investment summit . that show how important it be to return stability to economy and work in partnership with business — something that the conservative party might want to learn a lesson from . cost of living : support for Pensioners what fiscal step she be take to support pensioner with the cost of living . More than 12 million pensioner will be protect by this Government ' s commitment to the triple lock , with the new full state pension expect to increase by around £ 1 , 700 over the course of this Parliament . pensioner also benefit from free eye test , free NHS prescription and free bus pass . we know that no impact assessment be carry out prior to the decision to cut the winter fuel payment , but be any consideration give to the burden that the daunt application form place on the elderly , and the extra burden on charity such as Age UK , which advise they on complete it ? evidence of that daunting burden be the 60 % limit to uptake over the past decade . will she work with her colleague to simplify the application process , ease the burden on those who be lose the winter fuel payment , and help they receive the broad benefit that pension credit provide ? I think the Minister get it in the first two minute , never mind the last three . the Government do an equality analysis on the change , which be publish in September . I recommend that the hon . Gentleman take a look at it . it be such a long question that I have forget what he ask . on application form — order . let ' s move on . rise — order . what be the hon . Gentleman stand for ? I hope he be not . I call Blake Stephenson . taxis on Working People what taxis she class as taxis on work people . what step she be take to minimise taxis on work people . as hon . member know , any change to tax policy will be set out in tomorrow ' s Budget . member will also know that our approach to fix the foundation of the economy will be one that protect work people . this Labour Government will honour our commitment to protect work people by not increase national insurance , basic , high or additional rate of income tax , or vat . the Government have get into an absolute pickle over the definition of work people . People deserve certainty . in Mid Bedfordshire , we be proud of the hard work of the owner of nearly 5 , 000 small business . they be work people create job and grow our economy , and all while provide for their family . they be lie awake at night worry about yet high taxis . will the Chancellor give they a peaceful night ' s sleep ahead of tomorrow ' s Budget and confirm that she will honour her manifesto commitment not to raise taxis on they ? I do not think I be pre - empte anything tomorrow by confirm that the Chancellor will absolutely stick to our commitment not to raise taxis on work people through national insurance , the basic , high or additional rate of income tax , or vat . and I might add that what people and business in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency might want be stability in the economy , a Government who support investment in the economy , and a Government who will get the economy grow and make people across Britain well off . in Bury North , child poverty rate be at 43 % , densely populate in three of our nine ward : Bury East , Redvales and Moorside . do the Minister agree with I that minimise tax rise for work people be just the starting point , and that tackle the crippling level of impoverishment for those in work require a laser focus and intervention from this mission - drive government ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that , while keep taxis on work people as low as possible be crucial , the way to make people well off in the long run be through boost public and private investment , and deliver sustain economic growth . that be the focus of this Labour Government , and that will guide the choice we make . I call the shadow Minister . during the election campaign , I hold a press conference at which I outline the glare funding gap in Labour ' s plan and the taxis they might raise to pay for they . one of those taxis be employer national insurance contribution . the right hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) — now Chief Secretary to the Treasury — respond at the time by argue that this be a list of thing that " labour isn ' t do . " be it correct that raise employer national insurance contribution be something Labour isn ' t do ? the right hon . Member will have to wait for the Budget tomorrow . she be a Minister not that long ago , so she might still remember that the Budget be the time when such announcement be make . let I restate our commitment , so it be crystal clear , that we will protect work people by not increase national insurance , income tax or vat . might I add , very briefly , that I note the Conservatives suddenly have a new - find interest in the livelihood of work people ? it be a shame , frankly , that they never prioritise that during their 14 year in office , during which , time and again , they make work people pay for their mistake . public Spending : value for Money what step she be take to help ensure value for money in public spending . the Government have launch a multi - year spending review to set out our long - term plan for public spending and to ensure that every pound of taxpayer ' money be spend effectively . the first phase of the spending review be due to report this week , alongside the Budget , and phase 2 will begin shortly after the Budget . I thank my right hon . friend for his response . recent National Audit Office report have reveal the extent of the Tories ' economic mismanagement over the past 14 year . that have put capital project such as Bingley pool in my constituency at risk . as a member of the Public Accounts Committee , I will ensure that taxpayer ' money deliver value . will the Minister assure I and my constituent that tomorrow ' s Budget will be base on an honest assessment of the public finance , so that this government can deliver on their promise ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I can confirm that the Budget tomorrow will be an honest assessment of the mess leave to this country by the Conservative party , but crucially our plan for clear up the mess and then deliver the change we promise . give that , I assume , everyone in the Chamber have eat at some point today , do we think that back Britain ' s farmer be a good use of public money , and give that there be a £ 2 . 4 billion budget for british farming , which the last Government underspent foolishly , recklessly and carelessly , will the Chief Secretary guarantee that at the very least the farming budget will be protect so that our farmer can carry on look after our nature and feed we ? actually , I do not have breakfast today , so I be look forward to lunch , and I therefore welcome that short question from the hon . member . this Government be commit to farming and rural affair , and to the production of the food that they provide for we , which be important for security of supply as well as , in due course , for my lunch . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . tomorrow I will present my first Budget . it will be a Budget that fix the foundation of our economy and deliver on the promise of change . it will turn the page on low growth and will be the start of a new chapter towards make Britain well off . it will mean more pound in people ' s pocket , an nhs that be there when they need it , and business create wealth and opportunity for all . I commend the Chancellor for recently outline investment in social housing , but in the interim the Joseph Rowntree Foundation have state that the previous Government ' s decision to freeze local housing allowance rate will push 80 , 000 private renter on housing benefit , include 30 , 000 child , into deep poverty during this Parliament . will the Chancellor now consider unfreezing the allowance and relinke it to the actual cost of local rent , so that those family can keep their head above water ? my hon . friend make a really important point , which I think be familiar to all of we in our community , about the cost of housing outstretche people ' s income . in our manifesto we commit to build 1 . 5 million new home , include social housing , which be so important and can give security to people who would otherwise be leave in insecure housing in the private rent sector . as this be his farewell question time , let we now come to the shadow Chancellor . this be indeed our final exchange in the House , so before tomorrow ' s firework I wish the Chancellor well for the future in her role . there have be a lot of common ground between we . for example , before the election she say that raise employer ' national insurance be a job tax that would take money out of people ' s pocket . I very much agree with she on that ; do she agree with herself ? the right hon . Gentleman know well than almost anyone else that there a be £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . that will require difficult decision , but even in those circumstance we will do everything in our power to protect the income of ordinary work people , so we be committed to ensure that no work people will see high taxis in their payslip after the Budget . we all know why the Chancellor be invent this fictitious black hole . thirty time this year , before the election , she promise not to raise tax , and now she be plan to present the big tax - raise Budget in history . more consensually , however , as this be our final exchange , I welcome her announcement last week of a £ 2 . 3 billion loan for Ukraine . do she agree that the strong signal of resolve that we can send to Putin be a commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , and do she understand why so many people be worry by the fact that she have yet to do so ? I have always respect the right hon . Gentleman , but I think it be important for we not to deny the seriousness of the situation that we face with the black hole in the public finance . combine with the lash out at independent economic institution , it suggest that he have more in common with Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng than perhaps we think . I watch my party lurch towards an ideological extreme and deny reality , and we spend year in opposition as a result . the shadow Chancellor risk take his party down the same path . my constituency ' s beer and pub sector make a significant contribution to the economy , both locally and nationally . our 76 pub and two brewery generate £ 23 million in tax receipt each year . will the Chancellor work with the sector to unlock its growth potential , in Newcastle - under - Lyme and across our country ? I know that Newcastle - under - Lyme and , indeed , the whole county of Staffordshire have a proud brewing tradition , and my hon . friend will be an excellent champion of brewery in his constituency . support pub and brewery be very important for I as a Minister . indeed , on my first day in the Treasury ' s Darlington economic campus , I visit Durham brewery — it be a work visit — where I hear from the Society of Independent Brewers and associate about the huge contribution that brewery make to british society . further detail will be set out by the Chancellor tomorrow . the Chancellor recently announce an extra £ 550 million for the school rebuilding programme . can she now confirm that all the school on that programme , include Bramhall high school , be fully fund and will get their repair soon ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I go to school in the ' 80 and ' 90 , and I be teach in portacabin because there be not enough room in my school . I know how important it be that child be teach in proper facility . we will set out more detail of our capital investment at the Budget tomorrow . I would like to ask a question that come out of local government . one of the frustration that I find after 14 year in local government be that short - term cut can often end up cost more in the long run — an example that always come to mind be youth service . what do the Chancellor make of the Local Government Association ' s call for spending on prevention to be routinely consider in both Treasury and departmental spending decision , and for well tracking of long - term outcome ? my hon . friend be right to point out the opportunity for improvement . as the Chancellor set out in her July statement , prevention will be at the heart of this Government ' s new approach to public service reform . that will be set out in the spending review in the come month . many household be face homelessness due to increase household cost . what support can the Chancellor provide to they ? build the home that our country need be a top priority for this Government . in our manifesto , we commit to build 1 . 5 million home in this Parliament , include social housing , so that people have access to secure and affordable accommodation and that every family have a roof over their head . we will set out more detail on all of this in the Budget tomorrow . prior to be elect to this place , I be the leader of South Ribble borough council in Lancashire , where we continually struggle to set meaningful budget due to the fragmented , short - term policy of the previous Tory Government . will minister please assure I that the proposal be consider in tomorrow ' s Budget will see an end to the fragmented annual public sector funding allocation and a reintroduction of meaningful , forward - think , multi - year settlement ? the Government recognise the significant pressure that all council be face . we be look at consolidate funding stream for local authority into the local government finance settlement , and we will work towards implement our commitment to a multi - year financial settlement . during my SEND summit in Bodmin on Saturday , teacher and parent reveal the shocking extent of our break special educational need system in North Cornwall and across the county . thousand be struggle to get the support to which they be entitle . what be Treasury Ministers do to ensure that local council and school be properly resource to deliver an effective SEND system , so that family finally get the support they need and deserve ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . this be an issue that resonate right across the House , with so many of we hear terrible story at our surgery about the lack of support for some of the most vulnerable child in society . I know that it be a priority for the Education Secretary too , and we will set out more detail on departmental settlement in the Budget tomorrow . there be over 50 pub and brewery in my constituency , support more than 1 , 500 job and contribute million of pound to our economy . whether it be the Mulberry Tree Farm in Hampton or the Windmill in Orton Waterville , these be value business that have earn their place in our local community . do the Chancellor agree that they deserve to be support , and that this Labour Government will give hospitality the tool it need to thrive ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . he be absolutely right to say that pub make an enormous contribution to our society and economy . the current alcohol duty system support pub through draught relief , which ensure that eligible product serve on draught be charge less duty . the Government be commit to deliver a fairer business rate system for high street , include hospitality . any decision on future tax policy will be announce by the Chancellor at a fiscal event , the next of which be tomorrow . eighty - two per cent of those who have see Labour take away their winter fuel payment be either below the poverty line or within £ 55 a week of it . how can the Government justify this , when they be not even allow a freedom of information request from the Financial Times to be respond to ? they be hide the figure from the people . we be not hide the figure . if I have have the chance , I would have say that 455 , 000 pensioner be pay the high rate of tax and that 39 , 300 be pay the additional rate . many wealthy pensioner have say to I that they do not need the winter fuel payment — [ interruption . ] the right hon . Gentleman say that , but there be a number of — order . I think the Minister have answer the question . I call Emma Foody . resident in my constituency be still feel the pinch in their pocket and pay packet from Liz Truss ' s disastrous mini - Budget . it be vital that this government fix the foundation of our economy to deliver proper public service and a rise in living standard . can the Chancellor tell I how she will deliver this for the north - east and for people across the country ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the disastrous impact of the conservative mini - budget just over two year ago , which be still have an impact on people ' s life as they pay high mortgage bill . this Government have commit to return sustainability to the economy and to work with business to reform our planning system , our pension system and our skill system . we have already bring in £ 63 . 5 billion of private sector investment to grow our economy in all part of the country and deliver the job and well wage that constituent in Cramlington and right across the country need to see . small business owner be work people , and they be some of the hard - work people that I know . the Labour party struggle to define they over the weekend , but do the Chancellor agree that any rise in fuel duty , which the conservative freeze or cut for 14 year , would be a tax on those hard - work people or those hard - work small business owner ? the previous Government factor into their forecast an increase in fuel duty this year . I will set out our plan in the Budget tomorrow . can the Minister update the House on how the Government will help to secure well return for pensioner while also unlock the opportunity for pension saving to help generate growth ? the Chancellor launch the landmark pension review in July , which I be lead and which be look at measure to drive more UK pension investment into the UK economy , boost growth but also improve pension saver ' outcome . I know that there be interest in this agenda across the House . Countryside Alliance research show that rural household spend up to £ 800 a year more on fuel than urban household , so far to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) , will the Chancellor protect rural community in the Budget tomorrow ? the hon . Gentleman be urge I to comment on the Budget , but he will have to wait until tomorrow . this Government have inherit a Britain that be now the most unequal country in the G7 bar America . the UK ' s 50 rich family own 50 % of the country ' s wealth , and our tax system exacerbate this inequality with unfair loophole that benefit those who have wealth rather than those who go to work . what step — order — [ interruption . ] no , these be topical question and I decide . my hon . friend will have to wait for the Budget tomorrow , but he will know that we have commit to close some loophole , include vat on private school , the non - dom loophole and crack down on tax avoidance . in South Devon , the average house price be now 14 time the average salary , at £ 425 , 000 . what measure be the Chancellor take to ensure that rural and coastal area , such as the South Hams , which face huge digital and transport connectivity problem , will be include in measure to boost economic growth ? our commitment to build 1 . 5 million home be about ensure that all our constituent get the chance to have a roof over their head , include in rural area , with more social housing as well so that people can have a secure tenancy . the hon . Lady be also right to raise the issue of digital connectivity , and we will be set out more detail on infrastructure investment in the Budget tomorrow . " buy now , pay later " be attractive to young people who be try to survive on zero - hour contract with irregular hour . what assurance can the Chancellor give I that the come regulation will protect this group from problematic debt ? the propose regulation will drive high standard of conduct among " buy now , pay late " firm , ensure that consumer receive clear information and have access to strong protection . our proposal will also allow the Financial Conduct Authority to require " buy now , pay later " firm to carry out affordability check , ensure that firm lend only to borrower who can afford to repay . during the last election campaign , labour candidate across Somerset say that a Labour Government would cut energy bill by £ 300 . will the Chancellor set out the timescale for fulfil that promise ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and I note the number of Labour mp we now have in Somerset and across the south - west of England . we will set out more detail in the Budget tomorrow , but our commitment to invest in home - grow energy will boost our energy security , create good job here in Britain and begin to reduce people ' s bill , as will our programme to well insulate home , which the previous Government fail to do . a hundred council in England have come together to call for five key change to unlock much - need investment in new council home . they will welcome the news of £ 500 million of additional grant and change to the right - to - buy rule , but one issue they also raise be housing revenue account debt and finance . will Treasury Ministers look specifically at debt allocation and how HRA debt be account for , to unlock much - need investment in council home ? council ' housing revenue account be a significant part of local authority finance , and it be therefore not right to exclude they from our fiscal rule , but I reassure my hon . friend that this Government ' s commitment to deliver 1 . 5 million new home will be deliver . however " work people " be define , do the Chancellor not accept that people on low income and part - time employee who earn up to £ 300 a week should be exempt from pay income tax ? we will set out detail of our tax policy in the Budget tomorrow , but this Government have make a commitment to work people that we will not increase their income tax , their national insurance or the value add tax they pay . Ministerial Code : Policy announcement I have note the medium report an assertion from Downing Street that the pre - announcement of Budget measure be entirely routine . for the avoidance of doubt , I be always happy for minister to come to the House to make announcement in the run - up to a Budget . this discourtesy arise when those announcement be make elsewhere . ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Prime Minister if he will make a statement on whether minister disclose policy to the medium before the Budget be in contravention of the ministerial code ' s statement that the most important announcement of Government policy should be make , in the first instance , in Parliament . Mr Speaker , I reassure you that what you say yesterday , and indeed what you say a moment ago , have be hear not just by I but across Government . the Government take their obligation to this House very seriously . yesterday , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury make a statement to the House on the fiscal rule , in which he make it clear that detail will be announce to the House in the Chancellor ' s Budget statement tomorrow , alongside an economic and fiscal forecast produce by the independent Office for Budget Responsibility . Treasury Ministers have also answer question in the House this morning . the Chancellor will come before the House tomorrow to set out in detail the Government ' s Budget to fix the foundation of our economy , and the House will then have a further four day of debate on the measure announce in that Budget . throughout it all , member of this House will see a Government who be committed to fix the foundation to deliver the change our country so desperately need . this Labour Government will invest in Britain ' s future so that we can rebuild the national health service and our country , while ensure that work people do not face high taxis in their payslip . the response from No . 10 yesterday , and labour ' s whole argument , seem to be , " we do it because you guy do it . " but I be old enough to remember a fresh - faced Prime Minister come into Downing Street and promising change . labour justify its action base on thing that the Conservatives have do do not seem like the change we be promise , do it ? we be learn the lesson of why we lose the election , but this Government seem to be take lesson from the bad bit of our record . and not just our — from the last Labour Government , too . it be like the great hit of Government mistake be replay in just 100 day . cronyism ? be it Blair ? no , it be the fresh - faced Labour Government give civil service job to donor . a gross betrayal of pensioner ? be it Brown ? no , it be the new Chancellor decide that those on £ 13 , 000 be rich and do not need their winter fuel payment . rampant politicisation of our institution ? be this not something Labour accuse Boris Johnson of ? no , it be the Chancellor again , who say this weekend that the ex - Prime Minister and ex - Chancellor will have to answer to the Office for Budget Responsibility , despite the OBR say that the report have nothing to do with previous Ministers and lead the Times to argue that the OBR have be reduce " to the provisional wing of the Treasury press office . " disrespectful statement emanate from no . 10 about your decision , Mr Speaker ? not the conservative party , but the no . 10 press office , just yesterday . and potentially breach the ministerial code with abandon about Budget leak ? right again , it be this Government . this government ' s false piety have be breach comprehensively by the Downing Street pass scandal and crony appointment to the civil service , and their hypocrisy have be lay bare for all to see . yet still they bleat on about the Tories like some broken spell they mutter over and over again in an attempt to conjure up the old magic , but it be not go to work . labour be so obsessed with play political game that its member find themselves go over the Budget , simultaneously claim that the Conservatives spend too much , but also spend too little . it be nonsense . the question that I want to ask the Government today be who be go to take responsibility for the Budget leak ? what assessment have the Government make of whether this be a breach of the ministerial code ? as I have say , I have the deep respect for this House and its Members . the come day will be very important to debate the Budget in full . I be sure right hon . and hon . member will forgive I if I have a degree of cynicism about the conservative party ' s new - find passion for parliamentary convention , give the number of time it fail in its 14 year in office to update the House ahead of major announcement . the truth be that Conservative member be desperate to speak about anything other than the appalling mess in which they leave our national finance . there be many group of people who I would listen to on budget management , but certainly not member of the party that crash the economy . we would think they might have learn some lesson from attack independent financial institution , but they have not . the shadow Chancellor and the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury be attack the Office for Budget Responsibility once again . family in my constituency and across the country be still pay high rent and mortgage cost because of the mini - Budget two year ago that create and wreak such havoc on our economy . unlike the conservative party , this Government will never play fast and loose with the nation ' s finance . tomorrow we will see a budget focus on investment , to get the economy move again . this government will take the long - term decision need to rebuild Britain and fix our school , hospital and our broken road . the Conservatives have not change . all they offer be decline and more austerity , with work people pay the price . in Bury North , rent and mortgage be still sky high as a direct consequence of the economic legacy of the last Conservative Government . do the Minister agree that it be no surprise that the Conservatives want to talk about anything other than their economic record ? I certainly do agree . I be sure it will come as a surprise to right hon . and hon . member that one of the Conservative ' s former Chancellors decide to comment on the September 2022 fiasco . what do Kwasi Kwarteng say the other day ? " okay , my Budget wasn ' t perfect " — the master of understatement . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a sad state of affair when the run - up to the Budget of this new Government so closely resemble that of the previous Government , with consistent leak and briefing to the medium rather than announcement be make where they should be — in this House — so that member can scrutinise they on behalf of their constituent . the previous Conservative Government do so much damage to trust in politic , include by consistently undermine the ministerial code . will the Minister put thing right and toughen up the status of the code by enshrine it in law ? we have already say that the Prime Minister will publish an update ministerial code shortly . there be a stark difference between this and the previous Administration . the approach of the previous one be probably well characterise as , " if you break the rule , try and change the rulebook , " but we on the Labour Benches take the ministerial code seriously . that be why we want to ensure that it be fit for purpose , deal with problem such as the Tory freebie loophole and meet the high standard that the Prime Minister expect of all who have the privilege of serve in his government . I be sure the whole House will welcome the constructive response from the Minister today . will he confirm that the former Conservative Treasury Front - Bench team have to have paragraph 9 . 1 of the ministerial code draw to their attention twice this year — in both April and May ? it be do as they say , not do as they do . my hon . friend be absolutely right . frankly , when I hear Conservative member talk about ethic and standard in Government , I think that irony have die . can we take it that the Government do not think that the Chancellor ' s announcement in America last week be important ? I think most people in this House feel that it be . therefore , if it be important , do the Chancellor break the ministerial code ? the Chief Secretary to the Treasury make a statement to the House yesterday . the entire Treasury team have be here answer question today . the Chancellor will deliver a Budget tomorrow and we will have four day of debate on it . I doubt that the House have see so much of the Treasury team since the Tories be force to deliver two emergency Budgets in September 2022 . my constituent in North East Derbyshire be still pay the price of the mini - Budget , with rise in their mortgage and rent . do the Minister agree that the Conservatives should be talk about that and hold themselves to account rather than throw out chaff to distract everyone ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . in the contribution of the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , one word be noticeably missing : sorry . as Chair of the Procedure Committee in the previous Parliament , I make a point of make sure that when Ministers have breach the rule , it be clear to they that both the Committee and other be very unhappy . will the Minister confirm that he will make sure that the revise ministerial code make it clear that announcement need to be make to this place first , as have always be the case ? with the great respect to the right hon . Lady , she will not have long to wait for the ministerial code . in my opening remark to Mr Speaker , I indicate my respect for this House in regard to the matter that she be talk about . the chutzpah from Conservative Members be quite incredible . do the Minister agree that although they make a point today about process , they totally ignore the Office for Budget Responsibility ahead of the disastrous mini - Budget , which be still cause immense pain to my constituent ? absolutely . it be no surprise that we have a conservative party that want to talk about process , but it will not take responsibility for the £ 22 billion black hole that it leave in our finance . yesterday , Mr Speaker , you make the strong statement of condemnation on a subject of this sort that I have hear from the Chair in 27 year in this House . the Minister be a decent chap and , for all I know , he may be a skilled cricketer , but he must admit that he be bat on a sticky wicket today . do he understand that if his defence be just to say , " we do it because the previous party do it , " nobody will ever break this cycle ? his party have a big majority . it could just say sorry and resolve to do well in future . I have a great deal of respect for the right hon . Gentleman . I be not a cricketer , as it happen , so I can not comment on the condition of the wicket . with regard to Mr Speaker , I do initially set out in my remark today my respect for what he say both yesterday and today , and my respect for member of this House . I think we all understand that Conservative member be desperate to talk about anything other than their record of 14 year of failure in government . we hear from hon . friend and Opposition Members how those failure be affect constituent every single day . my question be , what next ? how will the Conservatives distract we next ? my hon . friend be entirely right about the conservative party ' s desire to distract from its record , whether it be the lockdown party or the PPE VIP lane for contract . this government be appoint a covid corruption commissioner to get the public ' s money back . those of we who have be in this place for some time will remember the outraged indignation of the now Government , when they be in opposition , every time the now opposition pull a stunt like this . the only constant be you , Mr Speaker , and your effort to have whichever of they be in power treat this House and its member with respect . can the Minister not see that the Government display such arrogant contempt for the rule only feed the public perception that one be as bad as the other ? rather than deliver the change it promise , the Labour party be really say , " it ' s our turn now . " the hon . Gentleman can not possibly be say that there be any comparison with breach the rule during the covid pandemic . he really can not ; that be not a serious proposition . nor be it a serious proposition to suggest that this be comparable with the money that be lose in the PPE VIP lane — it really be not . despite the rumour be spread , include by the Conservative party , can my right hon . friend confirm that not a single change to taxation have yet be announce , and that they will in fact be announce at the Budget tomorrow ? as my hon . Friend say , the measure will be announce at tomorrow ' s Budget in the normal way , with the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s economic and fiscal forecast . the conservative party may denigrate the Office for Budget Responsibility , but this government respect our financial institution . can the Paymaster General confirm that the Chancellor receive £ 7 , 500 - worth of free clothe and declare they as office support be a breach of the ministerial code ? rise — I must say , the Conservatives have learn absolutely nothing . they trash ministerial standard and standard in this House when in government . [ interruption . ] order . Mr Shannon , you be mean to sit down again . the Conservatives trash standard in government . my suggestion to they be to reflect on the past 14 year . I be very grateful to several Conservative Members for admit to quite a lot of the mistake that they make in government . People in my constituency be still pay the price , in their mortgage and rent , for the disastrous conservative economic record . be it any wonder that the Conservatives be so desperate to speak about anything other than their disastrous record ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : the Conservatives will talk about anything but their own record . be it any wonder that they do not conduct a spending review before they call a general election ? the reality be that they make unfunded spending commitment and then run away . a remit of the new Modernisation Committee be to enhance the ability of member of this House to hold the Government to account . in the light of the failure that have be exhibit over recent day , would the Minister be in favour of refer this issue to the Modernisation Committee ? I be not aware that financial mismanagement by the conservative party be a matter for the Modernisation Committee , but it should certainly be refer to something . like other , I be surprised to hear that Conservative Members recently rediscover their moral compass — the one that they lose perhaps when the former Prime Minister send out the " bring your own bottle " invite to Downing Street , when he spend taxpayer ' money jet his girlfriend around the world , or when they unlawfully suspend this place . perhaps the Minister agree that there might be another motivation . do the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) want to keep her job next week ? of course , we wish the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) well for the reshuffle next week . as ever , my hon . friend make a very persuasive point . the Conservatives will talk about anything apart from their record . at 10 pm last night , the Government announce a £ 70 million increase in funding for radiotherapy . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for radiotherapy , I very much welcome that , but would it not have be well and right for the Government to make a statement to the House so that the policy could be properly scrutinise ? that £ 70 million equal about 30 linear accelerator , but it will take 70 linear accelerator just to replace those that be go out of date this year . it will not meet the need of people live in rural community such as mine . we desperately need a satellite radiotherapy unit in Kendal so that people can get to treatment quickly . will the Paymaster General put that lack of scrutiny right by arrange for a Health Minister to meet I and the rest of the all - party group , so that we can work closely to take forward those plan together ? I will certainly pass on that request to the relevant Health Minister . put aside the point that the hon . Gentleman make about scrutiny , I be sure that he join we in welcome the focus on radiotherapy , and there will be a real desire to work on it with he across party line . I be elect to keep the promise that we make in our manifesto . the conservative party break nearly every promise that it make in its 14 year in government . do the Minister agree that it be only right for this Government to confirm that we will honour the pledge we make at the election ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I be afraid that trust be one of the many thing that the Conservative Government destroy over 14 year , and this Government be determined to rebuild it . the Chancellor , the Education Secretary , the Health Secretary and the Work and Pensions Secretary have all make significant announcement to the medium and not to the House . will those breach of the ministerial code be investigate ? why have the Prime Minister not yet publish an update version of the ministerial code — be the Government still work out whether it be right to accept suit and glass ? we have already say that the Prime Minister will update the ministerial code and publish it shortly to ensure that it be fit for purpose , deal with problem such as the Tory freebie loophole , as I have say , and meet the high standard that the Prime Minister expect . we hear a lot about " 14 year of failure " , but it seem to I that this Government have have 14 year to learn how the ministerial code work . in reality , the announcement make by the Chancellor last week move the market : bond yield go up , which mean that mortgage and people ' s bill have go up . the right thing for the Government to do be to apologise . first , we will see the impact of what the Chancellor announce tomorrow and in the day afterwards . the ministerial code will be publish shortly . that stand in stark contrast to what the previous Government do . I watch from the Opposition Benches as they try to tear up the entire rulebook to protect one of their friend — that be not something that we will do . after your statement yesterday , Mr Speaker , I think you will have be as disappointed as I be that when the Chancellor come to the Chamber for Treasury question this morning , she fail to apologise for the serious and important announcement that she have make outside the House . without deflect any far by talk about the previous Government ' s record , will the Minister promise now that the ministerial code , and the Speaker of this House , who represent we all , will be respect by the Government ? of course this Government respect both Mr Speaker and the ministerial code , but I make no apology whatsoever for hold the conservative party to account for its record . conservative Members , in their faux outrage , have complete amnesia about their series of egregious failure in government , for which people in my constituency be still pay the price . do my right hon . friend agree that we need to consider the future that this government can bring to the people of Central Ayrshire ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . in recent week , we have have the investment summit , where this government — an active government — get pledge of £ 63 billion of investment into our economy . that be already a much well record than that of the Conservative Government , under whom investment be in decline . I declare an interest as a governor of the Royal Berkshire hospital , and a family member of mine have a shareholding in a health company . yesterday , I ask the Chief Secretary to the Treasury whether he would commit to urgent funding for the Royal Berkshire hospital , and I be tell very politely to wait for Wednesday ' s Budget . do the Minister agree that there be a democratic deficit when elect mp can not get an answer on issue that affect their constituent , but detail of the Budget be , at the same time , be brief to the press ? there be a range of way in which the hon . Gentleman can get answer for his constituent , from write parliamentary question to secure a debate in Westminster Hall or an Adjournment debate . he do not have long to wait for the Budget , and he will have four day of debate afterwards to raise that point . I say this very gently to the Minister , but it must be say : throughout his term , Mr Speaker have be painfully clear that there be a procedure for this House that we must all follow . do the Minister not agree that this Government , who have come to power on a mandate to do thing the right way , must pay respect to that convention ? it be not in place simply due to tradition but to ensure that policy change be hear and debate in this Chamber first , which be the purpose of this House , rather than hear and debate in tv studio throughout the country with a simple nod in the direction of the discourse of democracy . I have huge respect for this House , to which the hon . Gentleman be a frequent contributor . the Government ' s respect for the ministerial code , for Mr Speaker and for member of this House be absolute . over the past few day , we have have multiple leak definition of what work people be . will the Government place in the House of Commons Library a definition ready for tomorrow ' s Budget , so we can all understand who they be talk about ? I can tell the hon . Gentleman about work people . work people be the people who have be so appallingly let down by the conservative party . they be the people who be pay extra cost in their mortgage and their rent every month ; they be the people hit by the cost of living ; they be the people leave on record waiting list by the conservative party ; and they be the people who this Government be determined to deliver for . we now come to Paul Holmes . thank you , Mr Speaker — there I be ready to defend your honour , Sir . even after your ruling yesterday , the Government make more announcement on the BBC this morning concern health service , so have the Paymaster General ask his adviser at the Cabinet Office whether they think the Chancellor or any other Minister have break the ministerial code ? if he have not ask for that advice , why not ? come on . the conservative party , which show zero respect for the ministerial code in office , try to put question like that be appal — it be double standard . [ interruption . ] order . I expect well of a senior Whip ! Sudan ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the situation in Sudan . I be grateful to the right hon . member for bring this urgent question before the House and ensure that we discuss the appalling situation that we currently see in Sudan . since conflict erupt between the sudanese armed force and the Rapid Support Forces in April last year , Sudan have witness one of the world ' s most severe humanitarian crisis . humanitarian access continue to be deliberately block , and atrocity be be commit on a horrific scale . the UK be at the forefront of respond to this crisis . yesterday at the UN Security Council , the UK condemn the horrific escalation in violence in Al Jazirah state over recent day , with the Rapid Support Forces reportedly shoot indiscriminately at civilian and commit heinous act of sexual violence . in September , as world leader gather for the UN General Assembly , the UK convene an event with partner to draw international attention to conflict - relate sexual violence in Sudan . that follow my visit to South Sudan , where I speak with some of those who have be impact by this horrific violence . on 12 October , her Royal Highness the Duchess of Edinburgh also visit the Chad - Sudan border to witness the impact of the conflict in Sudan on woman and girl and shine a light on the deteriorate situation . on 9 October , as co - leader of the UN Human Rights Council ' s core group on Sudan , the UK lead effort to extend the mandate of the independent fact - find mission on Sudan . that mission be vital for document human right abuse . most recently , on 18 October , the UK lead a joint statement with 10 other donor condemn the obstruction of aid and call on the war party to comply with obligation under international humanitarian law . I also want to underline that this year , the UK have provide £ 113 . 5 million in aid to support those who be flee violence in Sudan and those who have flee to neighbour Chad , South Sudan and Libya . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . the war in Sudan represent the large humanitarian crisis , hunger crisis and displacement crisis in the world , but it have be almost entirely neglect because of the crisis in the middle east and Ukraine . in the 18 month since hostility erupt , ten of thousand have be kill and more than 10 million people have be displace . Horrifically , 13 million face death by starvation this winter . we be witness a continuation of what the Janjaweed , the murderous militia now restyle as the RSF , start in Darfur 20 year ago . this be a deliberate strategy to destroy a population base on their identity — a crime against humanity . More than 1 million people in El Fasher in north Darfur be at immediate risk . as a member of the troika and through many other action , Britain have be active , but as the penholder on Sudan at the United Nations Security Council and with our deep historical connection to Sudan , the UK have a special responsibility to accelerate international effort to find a solution . event be not move far enough or fast enough . where be the responsibility to protect — a policy endorse by the whole United Nations — in this dreadful catastrophe ? what step be the Foreign Secretary take to ensure the international community live up to its obligation under the responsibility to protect framework ? we have see how contentious issue on the global stage often spill over into domestic discourse , but the debate on Sudan have be mute : there be no protest in the street and no mass public social medium campaign , and news coverage have be sporadic . yesterday , the Government announce that they will be match - fund the Disasters Emergency Committee ' s middle east appeal . can the Minister confirm today that she will do everything she can to support the launch of a DEC appeal on Sudan as soon as possible ? the british public be one of the most generous , and I be certain that with great awareness , many will dig deep to help , both in humanitarian term and in call for urgent international action . as Christmas approach , from the comfort of our home , we be go to witness the hideous spectre of mass starvation in a world of plenty . " Urgent " be an understatement : we must do more and act now . the new Government be absolutely determined to not neglect this crisis . the right hon . Member have just use the word " hideous " ; that truly be the case . I have speak with some of those who come back into South Sudan from Sudan , include child — child who have effectively have to fend for themselves for many day , wade through flood water , and be barely alive by the time they get to South Sudan . I hear from they about the need to ensure that the UK Government do all they can to stop this horrific conflict , in which the two side be ultimately out for themselves and most definitely not for the people of Sudan , who be be hold to ransom . the right hon . Member rightly draw attention to the situation in El Fasher . he will know that keep the Adr é border crossing open be absolutely imperative . we should no long see any restriction on aid : that border must be keep open , and additional impediment should not be place there . he talk about our special responsibility , which be certainly one that the new UK Government feel very strongly . we be do all we can within the UN , as well as bilaterally , to ensure that the UK be provide leadership on this horrendous situation . the Foreign Secretary have raise it repeatedly in a whole range of different context , as have I , include bilaterally and multilaterally . the right hon . Member refer to the link that the people of the UK have with Sudan . although he rightly say that there have not be protest on the street , there be Brits up and down our country who be work extraordinarily hard to support those in Sudan , particularly through mutual aid group . those be some of the brave people I have ever speak with : I have speak to they online since I come into post , and also speak with some of they in Addis Ababa . they really be incredible , provide support for their community at a time of such need . lastly , the right hon . Gentleman rightly mention the DEC appeal for the middle east that we have work with broadcaster on and match to £ 10 million . of course , any DEC appeal be determine by broadcaster , but we will certainly do all we can to ensure that the support that the people of Sudan need be deliver in a far great volume than currently . my right hon . Friend say that she be do all she can at the UN and bilaterally , but this horrendous situation be unfold day by day , with 10 million people displace , 20 , 000 people kill and 33 , 000 people injure — and it be get bad . can she say exactly what she be do and how she be deploy the UN General Assembly , particularly as we be the penholder , to bring this horrendous situation to a close ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for ask for more specific detail . she be right to emphasise the magnitude of the crisis : it be the world ' s large displacement crisis and now disturbingly , as we see , the world ' s large crisis of food insecurity . specifically on the UN General Assembly , which my hon . Friend ask about , we ensure that the UK convene an event with partner to draw attention to conflict - relate sexual violence in Sudan . I also work with partner to hold a meeting on the sudanese humanitarian situation , which we be rightly work on across our ministerial team in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . some 25 million people urgently need assistance in Sudan and more than 10 million have be displace from their home . will the Minister affirm that attain a ceasefire in Sudan be a diplomatic priority for the UK ? the UK be the penholder on Sudan at the UN Security Council and assume the presidency of the council from Friday . last night , I meet the former civilian Prime Minister of Sudan , Dr Abdalla Hamdok , who be president of the broad civilian front Tagadum . he be push for safe zone for civilian . will the UK sponsor a new Security Council resolution to designate no - fly area for aircraft and iranian drone , and to uphold responsibility under resolution 2417 ? will the Government increase the capacity of their mission in Sudan as a practical mean of support ? will they also far increase UK humanitarian assistance , include support for the UN appeal for Sudan , which have receive only half its target funding ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for the incredibly important point . she be right to underline that we must see an end to the hostility . as I mention in response to the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , the two war party both appear to believe that they can win the war , so they be continue hostility . the impact of that on the civilian population be extreme : as we mention , there be the high level of displacement and of food insecurity anywhere in the world . there must be an end to hostility and the UK Government be do all we can to advocate for that . I be pleased to hear that the hon . Lady meet the former leader of Sudan , Hamdok , from the transitional Government . I also meet representative of Tagadum , which be an important civil society organisation , when I be in Addis Ababa . their voice must be hear , especially when it come to the protection of refugee . we have see so many attack on refugee , internally displace people in Sudan , and civilian . we will continue to argue against that . the hon . Lady ask about our activity in Sudan . Richard Crowder be the newly appoint head of british Office Sudan and the UK special representative to Sudan . he be work incredibly hard on that , as be all the Ministers in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , as I mention . I be grateful to the Minister for update we on her work . the violence continue in part because the war party have their sponsor in the region , include Iran and the Gulf . what effort be the Government make to work with those regional sponsor to encourage de - escalation and secure a ceasefire ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for mention that ; she have considerable experience in the area of humanitarian need . we be extremely concerned by the situation that be reveal , for example , in the panel of expert ' report in January 2024 about external engagement . I have say from the Dispatch Box before , and I will say again , that the only reason for another country to be engage in Sudan be to help to provide humanitarian support . that be the only reason for external engagement , and we will continue to make that argument very strongly . both Front Benchers seem united in their passionate concern about this terrible conflict . do the Minister agree that if this situation be happen in a conflict on the continent of Europe or in the middle east , it would be on our national news night after night ? why do she think our broadcaster give a second - order priority to such a terrible conflict ? the right hon . Gentleman ask an important question , and one that I have be struggle with too . without dwell on it , hear from those who have be directly impact by the crisis about the horrendous time that they have spend try to escape the violence lead one to the conclusion that there must be more of a focus on the situation . the most appalling outcome would be if , some year hence , people be to look back and say , " why do the international community not do more ? " the Government be determined to use every lever — multilateral and bilateral — to try to force change and make sure that the people of Sudan be protect . a UN investigation find today that rape be widespread in Sudan . the account be horrific , yet as we have hear , the conflict be the world ' s forget war . how will the UK use its presidency of the UN Security Council in November to ensure that the crisis be no long forget and that the world act , include on sexual violence in conflict ? my hon . friend raise an incredibly important issue ; again , I know that she have experience in this area . the UK Government have repeatedly condemn atrocity and call out human right violation , especially conflict - relate sexual violence commit by party to the conflict . we have call that out in the UN Human Rights Council and the Security Council . we be also support fact - find mission . I be pleased to secure the support of even more country for the important UN fact - find mission , because the voice of woman , girl and indeed boy who be be subject to sexual violence must be hear and there can not be impunity for that . the brutality of violence in Sudan , and the disruption of agricultural system and trade route , have lead to the extreme food insecurity that we have see . do the Minister share my admiration for the local emergency room organisation that be do what they can to support local people ? what will she do to ensure that international aid can get through to those actor on the ground ? in the absence of international agency or international force , they be all that be there . what will she do to ensure that aid can continue to get across the border from Chad ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for refer to the emergency response room ; I have a meeting with a number of people involve with those mechanism . we be talk about ordinary sudanese people who have take extremely brave step to make sure that they be support their local community with desperately need humanitarian aid — food , water and other supply that they need right now . as a Co - operative party MP , I believe that they have show the good of mutual aid , and incredible courage at the same time . the UK be work with the UN on that , because we need to make sure that those individual be support in their incredibly important work . on the subject of aid from Chad , we will continue to push to make sure that the Adr é border crossing be keep open and that there be no bureaucratic and administrative obstacle to aid get through from there . what discussion have the Government have with regional actor to bring to bear pressure on the RSF and the SAF to make sure that humanitarian access to the country be allow to prevent the severe starvation that be ongoing ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this . we have have discussion with a number of bilateral partner both in the region and outside it . in fact , I discuss this with the usaid administrator last week when I be at the World Bank annual , but we have of course have a number of discussion with regional actor as well — particularly country in the Gulf , but beyond that as well . we know that many of they have relationship with individual in Sudan , and we be really push for those to be use so that we see the aid delivery that be so desperately need . the UN Secretary - General warn yesterday that " outside power be fuel the fire " , and intensify the nightmare of hunger and disease for million of people in Sudan . the Minister have previously state : " the UK could not be clear in our language . " — [ Official Report , 3 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 166 . ] she have say that those engage in this conflict and enable a proxy situation be exacerbate a humanitarian crisis . what precise action be the UK Government take to prevent this involvement and to stop arm reach the conflict zone ? I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for be of the same mind on how we need to see an end to external engagement and to see the war party come to the negotiating table . there have be a number of effort to achieve that , but sadly , we have not see both party engage to the extent they should have do . they must engage , and we must also see civil society engage . we need to make sure that every single country be push towards that end , which be ultimately the only thing that will prevent the suffering of the sudanese people . what be the Government do to ensure that the real picture of the impact on civilian in the region be well know , or well know , both domestically and in the international community ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this , because it really be important that we get as accurate a picture as possible of what be take place , include of human right violation . we be support the Centre for Information Resilience , a research body that be gather open - source evidence about the ongoing fighting in Sudan . as I have mention , we have also push very hard to ensure there be support for the UN ' s fact - find mission . I be very pleased to see african nation back that — a number of different country back it — and we need to make sure that the neutral information - gather approach be really intensify so that we get an accurate picture . I thank the Minister very much for her response . it be clear to the House that the Minister be do she good to try to find solution to the question we be ask . on the escalate violence in Sudan ' s Gezira state , recent attack by the Rapid Support Forces have reportedly lead to some 124 civilian death and widespread atrocity , include the targeting of ethnic and religious community . in the light of the event that have lead to the displacement of some 11 million people in Sudan , how be the Government work with international partner to safeguard the freedom of religious belief of those flee the religiously and ethnically motivated violence , and what immediate action have be take to ensure access to safe passage , humanitarian aid and protection for sudanese civilian face persecution , especially those from vulnerable religious community ? I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise this incredibly important issue . one of the many tragic development we see in Sudan at the moment be that , under the previous transitional Government to whom we refer a few moment ago , there be considerable progress on freedom of religion and belief . for example , apostasy be decriminalise and Christmas be make a national holiday for those who wish to celebrate it , so there be a lot of progress . we have not so far see a significant increase in the specific targeting of or discrimination against any religious minority for their belief , but we will keep that under very close review , and we be aware that the broad human right situation have clearly be deteriorate very disturbingly . Israel : UNRWA Ban ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on what assessment he have make of legislation approve by the israeli Knesset to ban UNRWA . I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise this critically important issue . let I be clear : jeopardise the mandate of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency and , in turn , its ability to carry out lifesave work be unacceptable . as my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary state clearly in this House yesterday , it be also " wholly counterproductive for Israel " . remove UNRWA from the equation would make an already unacceptable humanitarian situation in the occupy palestinian Territories far bad . it would also , of course , undermine the work of the United Nations more widely . we be work closely with our international partner to urge the israeli Government to step back from the brink and ensure that the legislation pass yesterday in the Knesset do not stop UNRWA be able to carry out its vital role in the Occupied Palestinian Territories . UNRWA be indispensable in the provision of aid for Palestinians . no other agency can get aid into Gaza at the scale need . all humanitarian actor depend on UNRWA ' s distribution network to get aid to those who need it most . that be why we restore funding to UNRWA as soon as possible , provide £ 21 million of funding . this be help to provide emergency food , shelter and other support for 3 million people , as well as support UNRWA ' s wide work assist 6 million palestinian refugee across the region . some £ 1 million of the UK ' s funding be help the implementation of Catherine Colonna ' s reform . we expect UNRWA to uphold the high standard of neutrality . as I have say , we be provide funding and support for its reform process to enable that . the Secretary - General and the commissioner - general of UNRWA take the allegation seriously , and act decisively . they can not now be use to justify cut tie with UNRWA . that be why we and our international partner voice our concern at the weekend about the legislation that the Knesset have now pass , and call on the Government of Israel to make sure that UNRWA ' s work can continue . the Prime Minister have be clear that the world " will not tolerate any more excuse on humanitarian assistance " . Israel must enable more aid to enter Gaza now and protect civilian . there can be no justification for deny civilian access to essential supply . it be unacceptable that UK - fund humanitarian supply have be unable to reach those in desperate need . winter be come , and the palestinian people can not wait . Israel ' s Foreign Minister Katz reassure the Foreign Secretary over the weekend that aid will get in , and we will continue to press Israel to meet those commitment . finally , the Foreign Secretary report to this House yesterday that Foreign Minister Katz have tell we that the Knesset pass the Bill do not necessarily mean it have to be implement . we will continue to use every lever we have to put pressure on the israeli Government not to implement the legislation . it be not in their own interest , and it be certainly not in the interest of the palestinian people , or indeed of humanity . I thank the Minister for that response , and I also welcome the comment make by the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary yesterday . however , our statement of concern will do nothing to help the life of innocent Palestinians , who will be far devastate by this decision . the Minister will know that the decision yesterday be back by 90 % of the Knesset . it will see UNRWA evict from the premise it have hold for over 70 year , and it will severely block its ability to provide essential service such as healthcare and education to million of palestinian refugee and other . it be a reckless move , and one that threaten to dismantle the backbone of the international humanitarian operation in Gaza , worsen an already catastrophic crisis . it will also deprive they of essential food , water , medical aid , education and protection , which be already be obstruct . the decision will also have catastrophic consequence for million of palestinian refugee live in Lebanon , Jordan and Syria , where essential humanitarian aid be crucial both for the refugee and for the host community . it be clear that these action be part of a wide strategy to delegitimise UNRWA and to undermine the international legal framework protect their right — specifically , the right of return for palestinian refugee who have be languish in surround country . do the Minister agree that the real intent be in part to undermine UNRWA ' s effort to promote the status of palestinian refugee , and to obstruct future political solution ? can I also remind the Minister that the International Court of Justice order Israel to take all measure in its power to prevent the commission of all act within the scope of article 2 of the genocide convention ? by ban UNRWA ' s operation , Israel be disregard the ICJ ' s provisional measure to ensure the delivery of lifesave aid to Gaza . my final question be this : we have see the decimation that have take place ; be it not time to fulfil part 2 of the Balfour agreement ? we have the state of Israel ; should we not have now a state of Palestine ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her comment . I be aware that she have considerable direct experience of the importance of UN organisation from before she become a Member in this House . I agree that we must not see the undermining of UNRWA . it have a specific , long - stand role , provide within a clear framework that country sign up to . it have a role not just in Gaza but in the west bank and the broad region . she be of course right that UNRWA be critical for the delivery of aid through the operation of other organisation as well . as member would expect , I have discuss this not just with Commissioner - General Lazzarini and other under his leadership in UNRWA , include when I be in Jordan , but with other organisation that be active in Gaza . they be very clear that we should not see the undermining of UNRWA , and that ultimately it be critical for the delivery of much - need humanitarian aid . I call the Opposition spokesperson . we be follow development in the Knesset carefully . we Conservative member want more aid to reach innocent civilian in Gaza because the situation there be desperate , but we also recognise that UNRWA must rebuild the trust and confidence that it lose , follow the deeply troubling allegation that staff be involve in the appalling 7 October attack and the outcome of the subsequent investigation . Catherine Colonna ' s reform need to be implement in full , because we recognise that UNRWA have a good , indeed often critical , distribution network . can the Minister update the House on the progress that UNRWA have make in implement the Colonna reform , and what measure have the Government put in place , since restore funding to UNRWA , to monitor its neutrality ? more broadly , during our time in government , Israel make commitment that would increase the amount of aid reach Gaza — for example , a commitment to allow the delivery of humanitarian aid through Ashdod and Erez , extend the opening hour of Kerem Shalom , increase the total number of aid truck and allow more type of aid in . I would be grateful if the Minister update the House on what discussion she have have with her israeli colleague about fulfil those commitment , and indeed on what credible alternative plan Israel have develop . despite the pause in future funding to UNRWA implement by the last government , we remain absolutely committed to get on with aid delivery . among other measure that we take , we assist over 5 , 800 child with severe malnourishment , and 853 , 000 child , adolescent and carer with the provision of wide emergency service . we also send in many airdrop , and fund a field hospital that be treat thousand of patient . will the Minister confirm that there be other way to deliver aid without UNRWA , and that the UK stand ready to help in every way possible , with its extensive expertise , so that we reach the most vulnerable ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her comment . she raise a number of critical issue . I be pleased to see cross - party agreement on the desperate need for more aid to enter Gaza . also , we agree , of course , that the Colonna reform need to be implement , and the new UK Government have be very clear that we will do what we can to ensure that . indeed , £ 1 million of the support we provide to UNRWA be dedicate to ensure that those reform be implement . we continue to monitor the situation actively . as the hon . Lady would expect , I have discuss this directly with the leadership of UNRWA , and I believe they be put those measure in place . they have put many in place , include many that they have wish to put in place for a long time , but be unable to , for lack of fund . this be critically important . the hon . Lady refer to comment make previously by Israel . of course the Government of Israel state that they would flood Gaza with aid ; concerningly , however , October might be the month with the low level of aid go into Gaza since the start of the conflict . there really do need to be action to change that . there have be a very strong message on that from right across Government — of course from I , but also from the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister . we need to see a change here . however , I would perhaps question some of the hon . Lady ' s final comment . all the organisation with which I have discuss these matter , with a wide range of perspective on the delivery of aid , have stress the critical role that UNRWA play . it have an unrivalled ability to distribute the support that be so desperately need , and be , if anything , even more important as we approach winter , which could be very difficult indeed for the people of Gaza unless we act . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . UNRWA staff be expect to uphold neutrality , and receive compulsory training on humanitarian principle . it share staff name and ID number with host country . it have its 1 , 300 building inspect quarterly , and it commission a report from a group lead by a former Foreign Secretary of France , who conclude that UNRWA uphold the principle of humanitarian neutrality . while of course there be change that can be make , do my right hon . friend agree that the recommendation be relatively peripheral , and fundamentally UNRWA do deserve the trust of the international community ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for her comment , and all the work that her Select Committee be undertake on these issue . we should state , as a new UK Government , that we be appal by the allegation that those involve in the 7 October attack on Israel might have include UNRWA staff . it be absolutely right that investigation take place within UNRWA to determine what happen , and that there be decisive action . that be fundamental , actually ; it be incredibly important . my right hon . Friend refer to Catherine Colonna ' s report . it underline the need for neutrality , and I mention previously that the UK Government be determined to play our part in ensure that the Colonna report be implement , include by allocate £ 1 million to that end . we be very clear that the kind of change that we could see around the position on UNRWA recently can not be link to discussion around the Colonna report . decisive action , which the UK Government support , have be take , and UNRWA be need to support humanitarian aid right now in Gaza . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we be deeply concerned about the Knesset vote to ban UNRWA . this come at a time that could not be more desperate . one of the UN ' s most senior humanitarian official warn : " the entire population of north Gaza be at risk of die . " we welcome the Government ' s continued support to UNRWA , include on implement the recommendation of the Colonna report as quickly as possible . can the Minister say what confidence she have in the assurance that the Foreign Secretary receive from Foreign Minister Katz that the israeli Government be not oblige to implement the Knesset decision ? what precisely be the Government do to achieve immediate access for humanitarian aid , and do the Minister agree that as well as word of condemnation , the UK must set out the consequence for breach international law ? will she consider sanction Ministers Ben - Gvir and Smotrich for incite illegal settler in the west bank to violence against Palestinians ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his comment . I believe we be of the same mind on the passing of the UNRWA Bills by Israel ' s Knesset . the Prime Minister have be very clear that the UK be gravely concerned about this . we believe the passing of those Bills risk make UNRWA ' s essential work for Palestinians impossible . it risk jeopardise the entire international humanitarian response in Gaza and the delivery of essential health and education service in the west bank , and we have join with ally in make that very clear over the weekend and into the beginning of this weekend . as the hon . Gentleman mention , that include the Foreign Secretary reiterate his deep concern to Israel ' s Foreign Minister Katz on 27 October ; he make the UK ' s concern on this very clear . the hon . Member ask what immediate action we be take on access to aid . we be use every lever we can identify to try to progress that access . I have mention our deep concern about the situation ; we see far too few truck enter Gaza with desperately need supply . that be particularly important now , in the run - up to winter . we will continue to work multilaterally and bilaterally to push forward on that . finally , the hon . Member mention the important subject of international humanitarian law . the new UK Government be resolutely commit to international humanitarian law . we keep our sanction regime continuously under review . I will not comment on the specific of it now , for reason that he will understand . we have be clear that the action of those engage in promote illegal settlement and violence towards Palestinians on the west bank be completely unacceptable . we have state that many time and have make that clear . finally , on whether there be implication from this position , I refer he to discussion we have have in the House on the arm export licensing control regime . my right hon . Friend say that we be at an end now , when it come to israeli excuse about why aid do not get in , but this be beyond excuse ; this be potentially an act of deliberate policy to destroy the most effective aid route into Gaza . what be we actually go to do about it , if Israel continue to ignore our request and plea to it ? I come back to the issue of sanction . if israeli Ministers decide to implement the Bill , be they not effectively engage in an act of warfare by starvation ? that be a breach of humanitarian law . will we use sanction against those israeli Ministers who get involve in promote this policy ? my hon . friend raise important point . there be no doubt that there will be severe consequence if the work of UNRWA be obstruct . we have already talk about this issue . it be clear that only UNRWA have the reach require to get the aid need to those in desperate need in Gaza . we do not believe that there be any justification for the position that have be take . the UK Government have be clear about that , and we have articulate that not only bilaterally , but with our partner , immediately , over the weekend . the UK Government ' s position be clear . he will understand that no UK Government announce exactly what they be do around sanction . that be appropriate and correct . we will always keep our sanction policy under review , as this House would expect . whether or not UNRWA be compromise , the fact remain that the Knesset , and quite possibly the israeli Government , believe that it be , and without Israel , no aid get through . what measure therefore need to be take to improve aid resilience — in this conflict and other — so that we be not overly reliant on one agency ? what plan b be the Minister work on to ensure that UK aid be channel through alternative agency ? the UK Government have be clear that UNRWA have a clearly mandate role in relation to not just Gaza , but the west bank and the broad region . it have have that role for many year . that have be clear in the international community . the role of the UN in general be incredibly important and internationally support . it be critical that UNRWA ' s role be not undermine when it play such an important part constitutionally , if I may say that , and internationally , as well as in the delivery of aid . we will do all we can to ensure that support reach those who need it , but ultimately UNRWA be the body with the great reach , and that be need now , give the extent of humanitarian need . the israeli Government ' s ban of UNRWA show blatant and cruel disregard for human life . without access to necessity that only UNRWA can provide , such as food and medicine , thousand of innocent Palestinians be face malnourishment , disease and death . give that Netanyahu have show no interest in support legitimate human right organisation , no interest in a ceasefire and no interest in a two - state solution , I be grateful that our Government have give a clear commitment to recognise the state of Palestine . will the Minister tell we when we can expect recognition of the state of Palestine and a pathway to get to that point ? briefly , this recent decision be take by the Knesset , so it be a parliamentary decision , rather than one by the israeli Government . we be concerned about its consequence , as we have be discuss . the UK Government believe that we must see a ceasefire . we need to see the release of hostage . we need to see the immediate delivery of aid and access to it throughout Gaza . that be incredibly important . we continue to believe and to advocate strongly for the two - state solution that be so desperately need . that will provide the security and stability that be need , both for Israelis and for Palestinians . Israel be once again choose to block aid to a civilian population that it be bomb . it be sinister and it be collective punishment . can the Minister outline a single red line that Israel can cross that would lead she to question its status as an ally of the United Kingdom ? the new UK Government have be absolutely clear , as I have state previously , that international humanitarian law must be uphold . I be sure that the right hon . Member be in the House when we have those debate that talk , for example , about the fact that we need to ensure that the International Criminal Court ' s mandate be respect and that the role of the International Court of Justice be respect . he will , I be sure , have be present for debate on the UK Government ' s position on arm export , where we believe it be important that international law be hold to , and this Government have be deliver on that . the situation in northern Gaza be dire . I welcome the lead role that the Government have play in provide essential humanitarian aid for Gaza , include through the support package for UNRWA , UNICEF , UK - Med , the World Health Organisation and the Disasters Emergency Committee appeal . do the Minister agree that the ongoing israeli restriction on the flow of essential aid be completely unacceptable and should be lift immediately ? we believe that any restriction on aid be unacceptable . it be incredibly important that we see access to the water and sanitation service that be desperately need , as well as to food and shelter , which be particularly important as winter approach . my hon . friend be right to mention the situation in northern Gaza , which be particularly concern . the UK Government will continue to do all that we can to advocate for more aid get into Gaza . with 90 % of the Knesset voting for the Bill yesterday , it be surely naive to suggest that it will not be enact . therefore , other preparation need to be make . despite the strong urging of the United States , the United Kingdom , the EU and other , the israeli Parliament vote for the Bill , know full well the collective international view of that proposal . do the Government now realise that the israeli Government , and indeed Parliament , be effectively diplomatically fly solo when it come to these issue ? if , as we all believe , no other agency can step in at pace and at scale to deliver the aid that be clearly need , then , as be say by the leader of the SNP — an unlikely bedfellow for I — the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , be this not now verge on the definition of collective punishment ? the Government can no long just either wring their hand or urge . we be very clear that UNRWA have an essential role , not only because of its reach and depth , but because it have that clear UN mandate in Gaza , the west bank and the wide region — indeed , I have discuss this issue with counterpart from Lebanon too . it be important that we do not see UNRWA undermine ; that be critical for the UK Government . as the hon . Gentleman rightly mention , we have join ally in express our deep concern . we will continue to push hard on this issue because we understand what the consequence will be if UNRWA do not have the continue ability to operate . we know what the impact will be on not only those in humanitarian need but the UN ' s role more broadly , and that message could not come across more clearly from the Government . under international law , palestinian refugee retain their right to return . by seek to dismantle UNRWA , Israel could , as part of a wide plan , be pressurise palestinian refugee to relinquish that right to return . despite our Foreign Secretary and Governments of many other country raise concern and plead with Israel , the Knesset go ahead with this vote . what additional pressure will the UK Government apply to Israel , which continue to violate international law and breach the UN charter ? I be not go to speculate about the reason behind a decision make by another Parliament , as I do not believe that would be appropriate . what we must be clear about , however , be the UK Government ' s response , which have be very clear . as we have discuss already , we do not accept this decision , which we believe be the wrong one . only UNRWA can deliver the aid that be desperately need , and we will continue to advocate for that very clearly . that aid be critically need , give the extent of the displacement taking place in Gaza , with large number of people have be move not just once or twice , but nine or 10 time . the Government will continue to push very strongly on these issue . if the Knesset Bill be an indication of how Israel now see international treaty and international law , there be surely no point in further negotiation on a free trade agreement with Israel ? should we not just end those negotiation now ? as I have state , I will not speculate on the activity of another Parliament . however , I will be very clear about the UK Government ' s response , particularly when it come to the potential humanitarian impact . other may wish to discuss trade issue , but for I , as Development Minister , the most important thing be how we ensure access to aid for those who be so desperately in need in Gaza . that be what I will continue to focus on . with winter on its way , as the Minister say , it be vital that we be clear about the importance of aid and of challenge all who obstruct it . the israeli Finance Minister say that the starvation of 2 million people in Gaza might be " justified and moral " in order to free the hostage . let we be clear : the hostage family do not think that . the israeli National Security Minister back the protest against aid convoy reach Gaza . I understand why the Minister say that she will not give a running commentary on sanction , but if we do not have sanction now , what else be open to we to send the clear message that aid must get to Gaza immediately ? I most definitely share the deep concern at , and the rejection of , the truly appalling comment to which my hon . friend have just refer . we be very clear that they be completely unacceptable ; we could not have be clear . some in the opposition have suggest that the sanction regime should be in opposition to take action on the legal regime on arm exportation , but the Government believe that we need to keep all these issue under review , as the House would expect we to in fulfil our legal requirement . that be why we announce the change to arm export licence a few month ago . the run - up to the vote in the Knesset be that UNRWA confirm last Thursday that its employee Muhammad Abu Attawi actually lead the attack on Kibbutz re ' I m , where british national Aner Shapira be brutally murder — after throw seven grenade back at those attack he , he be kill by the eighth . give those circumstance , what assessment have the Government make of UNRWA employee ' direct involvement in the 7 October attack ? until the individual involve be root out , there will of course be mistrust in UNRWA deliver the aid we all want to see go in . will the Minister take action on that issue ? the Government have be very clear that UNRWA must meet the high standard of neutrality , as be of course lay out in Catherine Colonna ' s report . as I mention , the Government have provide financial support to the tune of £ 1 million to ensure that UNRWA be take the necessary action . I have discuss the issue in detail with Commissioner - General Philippe Lazzarini and other member of UNRWA ' s leadership . I know that they be take action on this issue , and rightly so . I utterly condemn this decision by the israeli Parliament . ten of thousand of people have die as a result of israeli firepower , and now thousand more will die as a result of an israeli - induce famine unless the world act . will my right hon . friend confirm that if this decision be put into effect , it will be a breach of international humanitarian law ? a track record of honour international law be require if we be to keep arm export licence open . we have be very clear about UNRWA ' s role . as I have mention , UNRWA have a critical role , which be provide for via the UN , in relation to not just Gaza but many refugee in the rest of the region — it be incredibly important , and it be internationally recognise . this government have already take action to ensure that we fulfil our responsibility on international humanitarian law . again , I refer my right hon . friend to the decision we have take on arm export licence . in effect , the Knesset yesterday legislate for extraterritorial decision over Gaza , the west bank and refugee camp , and decide that UNRWA be an illegal organisation within Israel . what sanction will the UK Government take against Israel for that ? the one thing Israel will understand be if we suspend arm supply to it , because those be be use to create the humanitarian catastrophe that exist in Gaza and that be begin to exist in the west bank as well . if we do not do that , british arm and american arm that come through Britain will be complicit in the destruction of life of the palestinian people . we will continue work with our international partner and through the UN to press Israel to ensure that UNRWA can continue its vital operation ; we know how important its role be . I do not want to bore the House , because I have already respond to question about sanction , but we continue to keep sanction under review . however , the right hon . Member will surely be aware that the Government have already act to suspend arm licence — 30 of they — where it be clear that there could be a risk to international humanitarian law and where they could be use for lethal reason in Gaza . we have already put those measure in place , because we take that responsibility to humanitarian law very seriously . the humanitarian situation in Gaza be horrific and catastrophic , and the israeli Knesset have actually vote to make it bad . without UNRWA , million of Palestinians will lose life - save food , medical treatment , housing and much more . I be grateful that the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and the Minister have condemn the Knesset decision , but do she agree that the fact that 90 % of the Knesset vote to ban UNRWA be an indictment of the Knesset , as well as an insight into the value that israeli parliamentarian place on palestinian life and therefore on human life ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for say that the UK Government have be clear on this . we do not agree with the Knesset ' s decision . we believe it be wrong . we believe that UNRWA have a clear , mandate international role in the region , which be particularly important right now in Gaza give the extreme humanitarian need . as she intimate , we be very concerned about the potential impact of any harm to UNRWA ' s operation on the provision of food , service , education or healthcare — the support that people in Gaza so desperately need . far to the very serious point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) about UNRWA staff ' s involvement in the evil attack on 7 October , terror infrastructure have be find in 32 UNRWA facility in Gaza ; we have see a 3 , 000 - strong Telegram group of UNRWA teacher openly celebrate the 7 October attack ; israeli intelligence show that up to 10 % of UNRWA staff have affiliation to terror organisation ; and a palestinian eyewitness have bear witness to the fact that he see an UNRWA school director sell food mean for civilian at $ 100 a carton . it be clear that UNRWA be deeply infiltrate by Hamas . will the Minister work with Israel and other ally to find another way to work with organisation that can be trust to deliver aid into the hand of civilian , not terrorist ? the UK Government have be crystal clear that we expect robust process to continue to be follow . UNRWA must meet the high standard of neutrality , as be lay out in Catherine Colonna ' s report , include it come to staff vet and act swiftly when concern arise . we have see that in UNRWA ' s leadership . as I have mention , the UK have allocate £ 1 million to support UNRWA in implement the Colonna report ' s recommendation . another day , another outrage from an israeli Government , who be treat the international community , international law , the UK Government and , above all , palestinian live with utter contempt . word be not enough ; action be need to force the israeli Government to end the war crime and the violation of international law . when will the UK Government impose on Israel the scale of sanction that they have impose on Russia ? I refer my hon . friend to the comment that I make early : this be a decision of a Parliament — the Knesset — rather than of the israeli Government . the UK Government have be very clear about our position on this . we believe that UNRWA have a critical role to play in Gaza and that international humanitarian law be incredibly important , and we have act on that basis . I be sure that my hon . friend be aware that the new UK Government have be very clear that there be a definite mandate for the ICC and the ICJ , and we will continue to keep our sanction regime under review . the Government have to accept that the far - right Government of Israel be laugh behind their hand at we at the moment . they know that they be operate under the comfort blanket of a UK Government who say that they stand with Israel and that Israel have a right to defend itself . but when have murder child in their hospital bed be tantamount to defence ? in what way be the cold - blooded slaughter of 11 , 000 child tantamount to defence ? rather than the use of word to condemn the action of Israel , why do the Minister not follow suggestion of many member in the House today and start take action to make the israeli Government sit up ? the new UK Government have be absolutely clear that the kind of comment that we have see from some israeli Government Ministers be totally unacceptable . the view that have be express towards Palestinians both in Gaza and in the west bank from some member of the Government be unacceptable . we could not have be clear on that , both in opposition and now in government . the hon . member talk about action , but we have be act time and again on the humanitarian situation , and we will continue to do that . we have also be act to make sure that we uphold our responsibility under international humanitarian law . as I mention , that have be very clear in the decision that have be take around the arm export licence regime . this month we have see just 28 truck a day enter Gaza , with none in the north , lead to a catastrophic humanitarian situation . in 90 day , we may have no infrastructure leave in Gaza to distribute that aid . do the Minister believe that this be a deliberate and systematic destruction of a nation , ethnic , racial or religious group with the intent to destroy it in whole or in part ? will she enlist the international court to test that ? the UK Government have be very clear that we be extremely concerned about the situation in northern Gaza that my hon . Friend refer to . it be unacceptable that this month will potentially see the low level of aid deliver since the beginning of the crisis , yet the need be even more intense now than at any point . People ' s resilience be completely destroy in many case , so we be very clear about the need to provide aid . we will also continue be absolutely clear about our adherence as a Government to international humanitarian law . the Knesset ' s decision to brand UNRWA a terror group be very well signpost , so the question now be : what leverage be the Government prepare to use to prevent this decision from be enact ? I think we can all agree that another round of hand - wringing , head - shake and soft , whisper word of disapproval will be as successful as they have ever be in the past . perhaps it be time to summon the israeli ambassador and tell they in no uncertain term that if this go ahead , the UK will have no choice but to immediately end all arm sale to Israel , specifically the F - 35 component on which its military campaign rely so heavily . with all due respect to the hon . Gentleman , I find the description of the UK Government ' s communication of their view as soft whisper very surprising . he surely can not have fail to have see the very clear concern express by the Foreign Secretary , by my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) and by I . that have be express not only through international deliberation and the fact that we have work clearly and strongly with ally on this , with the joint statement produce over the weekend , but bilaterally as well . it be well know that the Foreign Secretary take this up directly with his israeli counterpart . the new UK Government be determined to ensure that we be uphold international humanitarian law , which be why we act on the legal requirement of the arm export regime , as I describe . in response to my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , my right hon . Friend suggest that it be difficult to explore the motivation behind the Knesset ' s decision . but we have to be clear that UNRWA be be target because of its mandate with palestinian refugee . the Knesset ' s vote will likely be devastating for lifesave aid operation . it be also a unilateral attempt to impact the right of return and make a two - state solution even hard . do she agree that this be unacceptable ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for be crystal clear , as the UK Government have be , that UNRWA have a clear mandate — one that be obviously part of the UN framework not just in Gaza but in the west bank and the wide region . we have state that numerous time , and we be in concert with our international partner to make that crystal clear . we will continue to make that clear . as I mention , with winter approach it be critical that UNRWA can continue to operate without impediment . these be the word of the United Nations humanitarian chief , Joyce Msuya : " the entire population of north Gaza be at risk of die " . if someone so high up in the United Nations be make statement of that nature , we can safely make the assertion that the onslaught on Gaza be genocidal in nature — the measure be intent , and not , as the Foreign Secretary allude to yesterday , the volume of count death . will the Government alter their position on this matter ? what will they do , by way of resolute action , to ensure that this crime against humanity be halt immediately ? word be not enough ; action be need . I agree that word be not enough . one of the reason I meet Joyce Msuya when I be at the UN General Assembly be to ensure we be work in concert with UN body on the humanitarian crisis and catastrophe within Gaza . we need to ensure that UNRWA be able to continue its lifesave work . we need to see that other lifesave measure be adopt , too . it be the UK Government who push so hard to ensure leadership on the polio vaccination campaign . we continue to push to ensure that the measure that be so vital for those in Gaza continue and that far more aid go into Gaza than we be see at the moment . if I have the Government ' s argument correct , it be that there be a window of opportunity now between the decision by the Israeli Parliament and the implementation of the measure by the israeli Government . yesterday , I think it be the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) who raise the question of what the consequence would be for the israeli Government if they go ahead to implementation . the message today — I say this with regret to my right hon . friend , for whom I have a great deal of respect because we have work with each other over the year — be that : on sanction , there will be no additional sanction , we be just review they ; on arm , we will continue to supply the part for the F - 35 ; on trade , which be raise , the trade negotiation will just continue ; and on diplomacy , we will allow to remain in this country without any consequence the israeli ambassador , who be an advocate of a great Israel and therefore oppose to the UN position on a palestinian state and a two - state solution . do my right hon . friend not realise that the message to the Netanyahu Government will be that nothing will happen during the window of opportunity and that they will be able to act with impunity still ? will she go back and consult her colleague , and come forward with a series of action that will have some effect in save life in Gaza ? I would say to my right hon . friend that the message from the UK Government to the israeli Government be actually extremely clear . it have be articulate by our Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and all member of the Government who have speak on this issue . the world will not tolerate further excuse from Israel on humanitarian assistance . I state that in my speech and deliberately so . that be a very strong message and it must be heed . the fact be that Hamas be deeply integrate in the civilian and humanitarian infrastructure of Gaza , whether hide their soldier in hospital — we see this week 100 terror suspect capture by the IDF in a hospital in northern Gaza — or be deeply integrate in UNRWA . my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) mention a senior Hamas commander who be work for UNRWA . the fact be that Israel be not go to facilitate the work of UNRWA in Gaza , so the question be : what be the Government ' s policy ? be it simply to lament this decision and to criticise Israel , and to threaten as yet unspecified consequence which be clearly not satisfy this House ? or be it to do something practical to get aid in to the Palestinians , work with Israel and other partner to develop an alternative supply route that will get aid in , accept that UNRWA will not be that mechanism ? the UK Government have actually state time and again that we expect robust process to continue to be follow by UNRWA . not only do we state that , as the Opposition do previously , but we have do something about it . we have ensure that some of our support to UNRWA be go towards ensure that the recommendation of the Colonna report be implement . we have see UNRWA take decisive and swift action when allegation have be make , and rightly so . that be right and proper . it would be for any UN agency , especially include this one , give its vital role . the hon . Gentleman talk about practical measure . on practicality , we believe that to suggest there be an alternative to UNRWA , give its depth of reach and the scale at which it operate , be incorrect . it be the only body that can currently provide the infrastructure that be need , and it be already mandate by the UN and the international community to do so . the former israeli Defence Minister , the late Moshe Dayan , famously once say : " our american friend offer we money , arm and advice . we take the money , we take the arm , and we decline the advice . " regrettably , the same could now be say of Britain . I have every reason to believe that the Foreign Secretary be make a strong case for peace , but it seem to I and million of other that the relationship with the israeli Government be entirely one way . when will the Government start use robust leverage above and beyond what have already be do to ensure that Israel act on british advice , as well as the advice of other international partner ? the UK Government have not be intimate advice . we have be provide very clear injunction , especially when it come to UNRWA and the need for its continued operation . we have always act in line with our responsibility around international humanitarian law and we will continue to do so . last week , I join constituent from my constituency United Nations Association in Newbury Market Place to celebrate the ideal of the UN . yesterday , I be shock and appal to see a fellow member state ' s Parliament start the process of ban a UN - mandate body . give that the UK Government will take over the rotate presidency of the UN Security Council this come Friday , what will the Government do via that vehicle to demand that the banning of UNRWA be immediately undo ? I pay tribute to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent for their support of multilateralism , which be surely now more important than ever . the pact for the future come out of the UN General Assembly . to I , that be a demonstration of the power of multilateral action , even in these deeply challenging time . we will use our role in the UN Security Council to ensure that international humanitarian law be uphold and that , as the UK , we play our part in lead response to humanitarian crisis like the one we have be discuss today . as the hon . member for Blackburn ( Mr Hussain ) say , on Sunday the UN ' s top humanitarian official warn : " the entire population of north Gaza be at risk of die . " I speak to the United Nations special rapporteur in person last week . he be in absolute despair about the lack of action from the world against what be happen in Gaza . I implore the Minister to give he and the House some reassurance that the Government be actively review how the sanction be work and what else they can do to force Israel to begin to work under humanitarian law . I be grateful to my hon . friend for meet the UN representative . I know that many member have be seek to engage with the multilateral organisation involve in this situation . the UK Government have , of course , engage repeatedly with all the UN agency involve : the World Food Programme , UNICEF , with which I have directly discuss the situation , and UNRWA itself . I pay tribute to all those who be engage in that manner , as well as to all the charity and other body so engaged , include UK - Med , which be do an incredibly important job . the new UK Government will continue to do all we can to ensure that international humanitarian law be uphold here , as well as in every other context . of the 12 , 000 UNRWA employee , about one in five be member of Hamas , and almost 500 of they be member of Hamas ' s military wing . when I ask the Foreign Secretary whether he could guarantee that UK taxpayer ' money would not go via UNRWA if there be any link with Hamas , he do not answer my question , so I ask the same question today . be the Minister able to give UK taxpayer a guarantee assurance that Hamas have no link with UNRWA in aid delivery in Gaza ? when it come to the view of the UK public and UK taxpayer , it be critical for we to reflect on what have take place over the last few day , when we have see a great many brit step up to support the DEC humanitarian appeal for the middle east . this be clearly of great concern . of course it be important that whenever there be allegation of activity that be not neutral — particularly some of the appalling allegation relate to the 7 October attack — they be fully investigate . when it have be provide with that evidence , UNRWA have investigate and take swift action , and we will continue to do all that we can , as the UK Government , to ensure that that remain the case . as I say early , that have include provide funding to ensure that the neutrality reform that UNRWA itself have want to implement for some time be indeed be implement and follow . last night , I speak to constituent who support the provision of medical aid directly into Gaza and the west bank . they be angry and heartbroken , because after each of the conversation I have have with they in the past year , the bombing and destruction have increase . I welcome the statement from the Prime Minister and my right hon . friend about the situation , but the vote in the Knesset risk make thing bad — for aid , for the release of the hostage , for a two - state solution , and for the recognition of Palestine . what hope can right my hon . friend give my constituent , the palestinian people and the world community that this time it will be different ? I thank the constituent to whom my hon . friend have refer . I mention early the many Brits who be deeply concerned about the situation , and I pay tribute to all the UK medical staff who be directly engage in Gaza . I have have the incredible honour of meet some of they , and their work be truly lifesave in extremely difficult circumstance — perhaps the most difficult that we can imagine . I agree with my hon . friend that the Knesset ' s decision be deeply counterproductive for Israel itself , as well as be very harmful to UNRWA , to the delivery of humanitarian aid and , indeed , to the UN system . like many other member , I be appal at yesterday ' s decision by the Knesset . this be a humanitarian crisis . hundred of thousand of Palestinians be displace : they be now without home , without water , without food and without healthcare . if UNRWA be ban , what practical step can the Government take to ensure that aid get into Gaza and , more importantly , that the people who need it receive it ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation of the situation . we need to ensure that lifesave supply of water , sanitation , food and shelter do reach those who be in need in Gaza , and other member have express particular concern about the situation in northern Gaza during these exchange . the Government have make it very clear that UNRWA play a critical role that can not be replace by other organisation , and we will continue to make it very clear that its mandate must be support and it must be able to continue to operate . the vote in the israeli Knesset be deeply worrying , and will result in further suffering , starvation and death in Gaza . what urgent step be the Government take , alongside international partner , to get more aid into Gaza ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for ask that very important question . we do need to see more aid enter Gaza , because it really be need . as many member have point out , winter be come , but we have not see enough aid enter even over recent month and , as I say early , it seem likely that October will turn out to be the month during which we have see the low level of aid actually enter Gaza since the conflict begin . we be very clear that any restriction on aid be unacceptable , and we have be work with international partner in that regard . my hon . friend will have see the joint statement that we release over the weekend ; it be part of a series of action that we have take with partner , bilaterally and in multilateral organisation , to ensure that we be play our part and that the UK be offer leadership . a few week ago , I seek assurance from the Foreign Secretary in respect of child be kill after be give the polio vaccination that the Minister have mention . those vaccination be undoubtedly give by staff member work with UNRWA . close to 1 , 000 civilian have be kill since I seek that assurance from the Foreign Secretary . we will all recall that young teenager burn alive in a tent with an intravenous drip . give the current state of affair , do the Minister agree that all our talk of diplomatic and political lever be fall on deaf ear , and that the only real thing that this Government can do be put word into action , namely sanction — include trade sanction — embargo on all licence , and the unconditional recognition of palestinian statehood ? the UK Government ' s position be very clear . we have advocate — in the Foreign Secretary ' s case , since the first hour that he be in office — for the ceasefire that be so desperately need , for the release of hostage and for the provision of aid in Gaza that be so clearly require . there be no question about that position , on which we have be crystal clear . the hon . Gentleman refer to the impact of the conflict on healthcare staff . let I draw his attention to the fact that we have see more humanitarian worker kill in this conflict than in any of the other conflict that we be see around the world . we have take action , and we do believe that the UK must fulfil its responsibility to international humanitarian law . I believe that the hon . Gentleman can see that very clearly , for example in the decision that have be take about the arm export licence regime . give the humanitarian collapse in Gaza and the risk of mass starvation , the Knesset vote be obviously deeply dangerous for the Palestinians , but do it not also send a deeply dangerous signal internationally to civilian in conflict zone , in that other state that have be accuse of violate international humanitarian law may take succour from this vote and target UN agency provide lifesave aid ? as have be discuss this afternoon , the UK and our partner have make it clear that the israeli Government can not continue to restrict aid — nor , indeed , should that be do by any other Government or any other war party internationally — but unfortunately we do see a number of violation of international humanitarian law . early today , we discuss the situation in Sudan , where we have also see restriction on aid . those be unacceptable . civilian must be protect in war , and the UK Government will continue to advocate strongly for that . I thank the Minister for her answer and for her clarity , which be much appreciated . do she accept that Israel do not take this decision lightly , but base it on intelligence gathering which indicate an infiltration of Hamas within UNRWA ? do she agree that we must work to find a solution to ensure that charitable foundation be free to supply the aid that be so desperately need ? while the UN have a role to play , will she liaise with Israel to determine how we can get help on the ground to those who need it throughout Gaza and Israel ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his question and , as ever , for his sincerity in discuss these issue . the UK Government will continue to work with charitable foundation and organisation . a number of they , include many base in the UK , provide incredibly important support for the people of Gaza . however , we be clear that when it come to the delivery of aid and service , there be no other organisation that can fulfil the role that UNRWA perform because of the need for scale and deep support , and also because of its critical mandate from the UN . I join the Government in condemn the decision by the Israeli Parliament . do the Minister agree that cut tie and undermine UNRWA leave we aghast at a time when we need institution to work effectively , independently and without prejudice to build any prospect of peace and a future after a ceasefire and the return of the hostage ? bad of all , the ban far compound the misery for the Palestinians and for those of we who still hope for a two - state solution . I be grateful to my hon . friend for take a long - term perspective on these critical question . give the humanitarian catastrophe , we agree that this decision , if implement , will be deeply harmful not just currently , but in the future . as we just discuss , we will continue to work towards the ceasefire that be so desperately need . when that ceasefire be achieve and we see a cessation of hostility , it will be incredibly important that the reconstruction continue . we will need to see UNRWA and other UN agency , as well as other country in the region , involve in that process . a number of different partner will need to be engage in the very important effort of rebuilding , which the UK Government have discuss with many partner . have the Minister see the late letter from the Commissioner - General of UNRWA ? it state unequivocally : " today , even as we look into the face of child in Gaza , some of whom we know will die tomorrow , the rule - base international order be crumble in a repetition of the horror that lead to the establishment of the United Nations " . do she agree with he that the implementation of the UN mandate " may become impossible without decisive intervention by the General Assembly " and UN Security Council member ? I have discuss these issue directly with Commissioner - General Lazzarini and other member of the UNRWA leadership , as my hon . friend would expect . I agree that we all need to do what we can to preserve the rule - base international order . on the possibility of the UN General Assembly take action on this issue , I speak for the UK when the matter be discuss at the UN General Assembly in New York about three week ago . it be incredibly concern that the Knesset be pursue legislation to restrict UNRWA ' s work . do the Minister agree that the international community need to put in place mechanism to fully monitor and incentivise the implementation of the Colonna reform in order to assure and give comfort to Israelis and jewish community in the UK that UNRWA ' s staff will never again be able to participate in terrorism ? I appreciate the consider question that my hon . friend have just ask . the Colonna report itself , and the work that have be undertake since , have focus on how we can ensure that the reform — particularly those relate to neutrality — be implement but then continuously review , so that we know that neutrality be carry out throughout the organisation . the UK Government have support this endeavour financially with a £ 1 million contribution . we believe that it be important , and we will continue to discuss this issue with UNRWA and , indeed , other multilateral body and bilateral partner in the future . do the Minister agree that the way to stop this conflict be to get the hostage release ? can she explain to the House what connection have be make through diplomatic channel with those who be hold the hostage so that we can get they release , which I believe would end the fighting ? I very much agree that we must see the hostage release . I know that many of we have be think about the immense pain of the family and friend of the hostage , who have now be in captivity for such a long period ; it be an incredibly concern situation . as one would expect , the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have meet a number of the hostage ' family , as have I . we will continue to do all that we can to make it clear that the hostage must be release . we will continuously advocate for that , for the ceasefire that be so desperately need , and for the aid that be so desperately require in Gaza . bill present Children ' s Hospices ( Funding ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Ian Byrne present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to conduct a review of the funding of hospice specialise in the care of child and to publish proposal for measure to guarantee access to hospice for all child who require palliative care ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 November 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 115 ) . registration of Death ( Religion ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Preet Kaur Gill present a Bill to make provision about the collection of religious information of the deceased where the death have be register ; to make provision for religious datum to be provide on a voluntary basis ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 116 ) . firearm ( 3d Printing ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Preet Kaur Gill present a Bill to create an offence of possess a blueprint for the production of a firearm by 3d printing ; to create an offence of possess part of a firearm produce by 3d printing ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 117 ) . Microplastic Filters ( Washing Machines ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require manufacturer to fit microplastic - catch filter to new domestic and commercial washing machine ; to make provision about the promotion of the use of microplastic - catch filter in washing machine and raise awareness about the consequence of microplastic from washing machine for pollution in river and sea ; and for connected purpose . two year ago , I present this ten - minute rule Bill to the House , and I be grateful to the many colleague who have since approach I to express support and encourage I to present it to the House again . I thank colleague who have co - sponsor my Bill this time round , and I be pleased to inform you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that it have cross - party support , with co - sponsor from the Labour party , the Liberal Democrats , the Green party , the DUP and the Conservatives . Microfibre plastic pollution be one of the most pervasive and preventable form of microplastic pollution ; in fact , around half a million tonne of microfibre from synthetic textile be release into the ocean each year due to washing clothe . I be introduce this Bill to encourage the Government to collaborate with washing machine manufacturer and set standard to ensure that all new domestic and commercial washing machine be fit with cost - effective microfibre - catch filter . microfibre , which be shed during the wash cycle , be too small to be capture by exist washing machine filter . they make their way into wastewater system , where they either end up as sewage sludge , which be later spread on our agricultural land , or escape treatment entirely , end up in river and sea . research now indicate that these fibre , once release , not only contaminate aquatic environment but travel up the food chain , make their way into an alarming amount of the fish that we all eat . the grow body of scientific literature on microplastic be truly alarming . we be not only eat and drink these particle , but the late research from the University of New Mexico show that they have now , sadly , cross into our blood , into human placenta , into breast milk and even into our brain . our body be now contaminate by microplastic . we should all be concern that in lab study conduct by Hull York Medical School , microplastic have be show to damage human cell , and while the full impact on our health be still unknown , the evidence be mount that numerous adverse health effect — include endocrine disruption , respiratory disorder , autoimmune issue and certain cancer , to name but a few — be cause or exacerbate by microplastic in our body . researcher have even find microplastic in human testicle , and this may be a major factor in the dramatic drop in sperm count over the last 40 year . I hope the Government be convince that microplastic pollution be a now major problem to our environment and our health , but how effective can microplastic filter in washing machine be in address microplastic pollution at source ? there be two factor that should persuade the Government . first , they may be surprised to learn that a 2017 study reveal that 35 % of all microplastic release into the environment be shed from our own clothing . that mean that over a third of environmental microplastic be come from a single source , which we know how to reduce . secondly , evidence show that washing machine filter can reduce the release of microfibre by 78 % in every wash cycle , with some manufacturer now claim that their new product be able to take up 90 % of these offend plastic pollutant . country such as France have already take legislative step to require microfibre filter in all new washing machine from next year , and Australia have an industry - lead goal of introduce these filter in six year ' time , so the UK can and should do its part . the United States Senate introduce the Fighting Fibers Act early this year . this be a promising federal initiative , which , although still in its early stage , be a mandate for filter in washing machine . the world be start to wake up to this problem , and the UK have an opportunity to show leadership by introduce legislation that could make a substantial difference . this be not just about set an example ; it be about honour our commitment to the environment and the health of the british people . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on microplastic , I have work alongside numerous stakeholder include the obvious one such as environmental group , but also with industry leader , wash machine manufacturer , academic and , in particular , the Women ' s Institute , which first bring this to my attention seven year ago when it be here lobby mp . they have all help to identify viable solution . together , we believe that fitting microfibre filter on washing machine be a cost - effective , achievable , near - term solution that would have a significant impact on reduce plastic pollution and its effect on our health . british company be already lead in the design and manufacturing of these filter , showcase the innovation and capability need to support this measure . I urge the Government to work with these business to position the UK as a global leader in the fight against plastic pollution . my Microplastic Filters ( Washing Machines ) Bill be a low - cost , practical approach to a serious problem , and it align with the UK ' s ambition to build a sustainable and environmentally conscious society . microfibre pollution be an urgent environmental issue , and this Bill represent a clear , immediate and simple step we can take to address it , with the backing of wash machine manufacturer . I urge my colleague in Government to support the Bill and to work with white good manufacturer to enact a solution that have virtually no cost to the consumer and that provide the safeguard that we need for our environment and our health . question put and agree to . order , that Alberto Costa , support by Sarah Champion , Jim Shannon , Sir Julian Lewis , Ellie Chowns , Ruth Jones , Peter Dowd , Si â n Berry , Carla Denyer and Mr Alistair Carmichael , present the Bill . Alberto Costa accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 114 ) . great british Energy Bill consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 1 - Review of effective delivery " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must appoint an independent person to carry out review of the effectiveness of great British Energy in — ( a ) deliver its object under section 3 , ( b ) meet its strategic priority under section 5 , and ( c ) comply with any direction give under section 6 . ( 2 ) after each review , the independent person must — ( a ) prepare a report of the review , and ( b ) submit the report to the Secretary of State , as soon as be reasonably practicable after the completion of the review . ( 3 ) the independent person must submit to the Secretary of State — ( a ) the first report under this section within the period of 12 month begin on the day on which this Act come into force , and ( b ) subsequent report at interval of no more than 12 month thereafter . ( 4 ) on receive the report , the Secretary of State must , as soon as be reasonably practicable in each case — ( a ) publish the report , ( b ) lie a copy of the report before Parliament , and ( c ) prepare and lie before Parliament a response to the report ' s finding . ( 5 ) in this section , reference to an " independent person " be to a person who appear to the Secretary of State to be independent of — ( a ) the Secretary of State , and ( b ) great British Energy . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 2 — Nature Recovery Duty — " ( 1 ) in exercise its function , great British Energy must take all reasonable step to contribute to the achievement of target set under section 1 – 3 of the Environment Act 2021 . ( 2 ) under the duty set under subsection ( 1 ) , Great British Energy must consider opportunity to incorporate nature - base solution in — ( a ) the design and maintenance of any asset in its ownership , and ( b ) its investment decision . " this new clause would give Great British Energy a new duty , require it to contribute to the achievement of Environment Act target . the duty specify the incorporation of nature - base solution ( include nature friendly design and building measure ) in all asset own by and invest in by Great British Energy . new clause 3 — prohibition of investment which would increase greenhouse gas emission — " ( 1 ) prior to make any investment , great British Energy must publish an assessment of the impact of the investment decision on — ( a ) greenhouse gas emission and ( b ) the production or combustion of fossil fuel . ( 2 ) where the assessment carry out under subsection ( 1 ) show that the investment be expect to contribute to an increase in greenhouse gas emission , great British Energy must not make that investment . " this new clause would require Great British Energy to publish an assessment of potential investment on greenhouse gas emission and the production or combustion of fossil fuel . any investment which the assessment show be expect to increase greenhouse gas emission would be prohibit . amendment 3 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 3 , at end insert — " within 6 month of the day on which this Act be pass . " amendment 4 , in clause 3 , page 2 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( e ) an emergency home insulation programme with target support for people on low income , and ( f ) the expansion and development of renewable energy and technology . " this amendment would set object for great British Energy of facilitate , encourage and participate in an emergency home insulation programme with target support for people on low income , and the expansion and development of renewable energy and technology . amendment 1 , in clause 5 , page 3 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the statement of strategic priority under subsection ( 1 ) must include a priority to reduce household energy bill by at least £ 300 in real term . " Amendment 5 , page 3 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the statement of strategic priority under subsection ( 1 ) must include a priority to advance the production of clean energy from scheme own , or part own , by community organisation . " this new section would require the statement of strategic priority to make specific regard to facilitate community - base clean energy scheme . amendment 6 , page 3 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the statement of strategic priority under subsection ( 1 ) must include the reduction of household energy bill by £ 300 in real term by 1 January 2030 . " amendment 8 , page 3 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the statement of strategic priority under subsection ( 1 ) must include the creation of 650 , 000 new job in the United Kingdom by 2030 result directly or indirectly from great British Energy ' s pursuit of its objective under section 3 . " amendment 11 , page 3 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the statement of strategic priority under subsection ( 1 ) must include a priority to allocate 3 % of great British Energy ' s budget to marine energy project . " this amendment would require 3 % of great British Energy ' s budget to be allocate for marine energy project . amendment 12 , page 3 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the statement of strategic priority under subsection ( 1 ) must include a priority to work with great british Nuclear on the development of nuclear energy project . " this amendment would require Great British Energy to work with great british Nuclear on develop nuclear energy project . amendment 13 , page 3 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the statement of strategic priority under subsection ( 1 ) must include a priority to require any renewable energy development locate in Wales that great British Energy own or invest into offer a minimum of 10 % community and 10 % local ownership for each project . " this amendment seek to ensure that all renewable energy project in Wales which be own or invest in by Great British Energy would be require to offer a 10 % stake in community ownership I . e . for individual and household , and a 10 % stake of local ownership , I . e . any Wales - base organisation . amendment 15 , page 3 line 16 , leave out " consult " and insert " receive the consent of " . this amendment would require that the Secretary of State receive consent from Welsh minister before include in the strategic priority and plan any matter concern a subject matter provision about which would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru , if contain in an Act of the Senedd . amendment 7 , in clause 6 , page 3 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Secretary of State must give a specific direction to great British Energy that it must report to the Secretary of State on the progress make by Great British Energy towards the strategic priority of reduce household energy bill by £ 300 in real term by 1 January 2030 . ( 1b ) a report under subsection ( 1A ) must include a projection of how great british Energy ' s activity be likely to affect consumer energy bill over the follow five year . ( 1c ) a report under subsection ( 1A ) must be make within two year of the date of Royal Assent to this Act and annually thereafter . ( 1d ) the Secretary of State must lay a report make under subsection ( 1A ) before Parliament . " amendment 9 , page 3 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Secretary of State must give a specific direction to great British Energy that it must report to the Secretary of State on the progress make by Great British Energy towards the strategic priority of create 650 , 000 new job in the United Kingdom by 2030 . ( 1b ) a report under subsection ( 1A ) must be make within two year of the date of Royal Assent to this Act and annually thereafter . ( 1C ) the Secretary of State must lay a report make under subsection ( 1A ) before Parliament . " Amendment 10 , page 3 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Secretary of State must give a specific direction to great British Energy that it must report to the Secretary of State on — ( a ) great British Energy ' s in - year return on investment , and ( b ) a forecast of the following year ' s expect return on investment . ( 1b ) a report under subsection ( 1A ) must be make within two year of the date of Royal Assent to this Act and annually thereafter . ( 1C ) the Secretary of State must lay a report under subsection ( 1A ) before Parliament . " Amendment 14 , page 3 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Secretary of State must , in particular , direct Great British Energy that any revenue generate from activity of great British Energy in relation to resource locate in Wales must be invest back into project locate in Wales . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to ensure that all revenue generate by Great British Energy from resource in Wales be invest back into energy project in Wales . it be nice to be back discuss Great British Energy , and on the day before the Budget , too . I be sure that Labour member be worry about what kind of horror they will be force to defend next . they will have have a miserable summer try to explain to their constituent why they be scrap the winter fuel payment for pensioner in poverty , just week after a general election in which no mention be make of that . they will have spend the last few week explain that the term " work people " — the people they promise to protect in their manifesto — do not include small business owner , or employee with saving , and that their use of the term " national insurance " do not prevent a national insurance rise for employer . they will be get a bash from company , who be tell that Labour would be pro - business , yet have be clobber by post - election announcement of tax rise and trade union charter , and who have a Prime Minister with an optimism about Britain that put he on the chart somewhere between Eeyore and Victor Meldrew . and tomorrow Labour Members will have to explain why the Chancellor who say before the election that any change to the fiscal rule would amount to fiddle the figure be now change they to open the door to billion of pound of borrowing . this be a timely return to the great british Energy Bill . our amendment today will give Labour member an opportunity , which I be sure they will welcome , to hold their leadership to account for at least some of the promise that they be tell to go out and sell . let we take a look at a few of the promise that Labour Members make during the election . the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) write on her website : " we will set up great British Energy … cut energy bill by an average of £ 300 a year . " the hon . member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) post on Facebook : " why be I back Labour ' s plan to set up great british Energy ? it will save £ 300 off average household energy bill in the South East by 2030 . " the hon . member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) say on Facebook : " everyone in the east of England will get £ 300 off their energy bill … no ifs , no but , no maybe , these will be measurable and you will be able to check our progress at the end of the next Parliament . " at least 50 mp make similar claim . why be Labour candidate up and down the country say these thing ? perhaps they be simply listen to the Cabinet . the Science Secretary say on " Good Morning Britain " : " I can tell you directly … by the end of this Parliament that … energy bill will fall by up to £ 300 . " the Work and Pensions Secretary say : " great British Energy will get people ' s bill £ 300 a year low . " this be my personal favourite : the Chancellor — the woman of the hour — say , " great British Energy , a publicly own energy company , will cut energy bill by up to £ 300 . " these be not one - off promise ; it be the party line , as dictate by the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero . these promise be still up in writing . in fact , the Labour party website still say that its energy plan will cut bill by £ 300 on average . oddly , minister now do not seem so keen on that pledge . we have ask they about it in this House , as have the medium , but the number seem to have vanish . they have even take down the great british Energy website , and the newly appoint chair even say in Committee that cut bill be " not the scope of great British Energy . " – – [ Official Report , great British Energy Public Bill Committee , 8 October 2024 ; c . 6 , Q5 . ] this be not trivial ; these be promise that people care about . every single Labour Member will have have constituent vote for they because they believe that Labour ' s promise of £ 300 off their energy bill would make a meaningful difference to their life . amendment 6 and 7 in my name will hold the Government to account on their election promise to cut bill . our amendment would give Great British Energy a strategic priority to cut people ' s energy bill by £ 300 by 2030 , and would require Great British Energy to produce an annual report on progress towards meet that target . surely all Labour Members who make these promise and keep they up on their social medium account will want to track the Government ' s progress on this important issue for their constituent . well , tonight be their chance . but £ 300 off bill be not the Secretary of State ' s only promise at the election . he also claim that great British Energy would create 650 , 000 new job , but he do not mention that figure on Second Reading , and the Energy Minister , the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , do not mention it in Committee . it do not appear in great British Energy ' s found statement , nor do it appear in the Government ' s explanatory note on the Bill . the only detail we have hear about the number of job to be create by Great British Energy come from the Secretary of State ' s hand - pick chair of that body , who say that " hundred " of people will be employ at its Aberdeen headquarters . we have since find out that the chair himself will be base in Manchester . it be a funny kind of headquarters if the head will not be base there , but that be the kind of sophistry that the public be start to expect from this Labour Government . more importantly , those few hundred people will hardly make up for the 200 , 000 job this Government be put at risk through their plan to shut down the North sea , or the miss opportunity for job thank to their go - slow on nuclear . on the Secretary of State ' s watch , we have already see thousand of job in industry lose . the Secretary of State can talk about skill passport and Government transition project all he like , but the truth be that they do not pay the bill . he like to say that we need to cut carbon at an extreme pace , fast than any other major economy , in order to show climate leadership and save the planet , but if our gas production , steelmaking or energy - intensive manufacturing move to Asia , which be still power by coal , he will be add to emission . that would mean more carbon in the atmosphere , and would be devastating for the hundred of thousand of people who would lose their livelihood here in Britain . I say that as someone who , before enter Parliament , work on regenerate some of our most deprived community once the job be go . as with our amendment on the Government ' s £ 300 pledge , amendment 8 and 9 in my name would give Great British Energy a strategic priority of create 650 , 000 new job by 2030 , and would require an annual report to Parliament on progress towards this aim . that be important , because even the trade union that normally support Labour have warn the Secretary of State and his team that his plan will lead to the mass deindustrialisation of Britain . the general secretary of the GMB have say that the Secretary of State ' s plan be " hollow out work class community " , and will amount to " decarbonisation through deindustrialisation . " he say that import more from China be " bad for community , not great for national security and it make no sense in term of the environment . " he also say , and I hope the ministerial team be listen closely to this one : " our message to Ed Miliband be very clear : we be worried about a lot of promise that be not be deliver on job . " those Labour mp who be member of the GMB , include the Energy Minister , have the opportunity tonight to hold the Government to account by vote for annual reporting on the job be create . the question be , will they listen to the general secretary ' s concern ? the next promise be that great British Energy would turn a profit for the taxpayer . the Secretary of State admittedly get himself into a mess on this one . he have never have to make commercial investment decision , and neither have any of his ministerial team , which be why they have be catch out promise the british public that they can turn a tidy profit , while at the same time tell multimillion - pound energy company that they will take the least attractive part of their investment off their hand . that be important , because the Secretary of State have write this Bill to give himself power of direction . that be not the case for the UK Infrastructure Bank , and there be a recur question in Committee about how much independence the supposedly independent Great British Energy will have . this be my proposal : if the Secretary of State want the power to meddle , he should be duty - bind to report the result of that meddling — its profit and loss — to this House . amendment 10 in my name would require Great British Energy to produce an annual report on the performance of its investment , include its in - year return on investment and a forecast of the following year ' s expect return . that be the bare minimum we can expect , so that british taxpayer can see what he be do with £ 8 billion of their money . I table clause 1 because it be crucial that we have proper oversight of the wide activity of great British Energy . new clause 1 would require the appointment of an independent reviewer to assess great British Energy ' s effectiveness in achieve its objective and strategic priority . in Committee , the Energy Minister say that the Government want Great British Energy to be " accountable , transparent and clear about how it be deliver on its objective . " – – [ Official Report , great British Energy Public Bill Committee , 15 October 2024 ; c . 168 . ] I agree , and that seem a perfectly good reason to support new clause 1 . as I have say previously , great British Energy be pretty much a carbon copy of the UK Infrastructure Bank , which be set up to provide loan , equity and guarantee for infrastructure to tackle climate change , back by £ 22 billion . no Minister have be able to tell we the real difference between great British Energy and the UK Infrastructure Bank , or why the taxpayer have to pay for two headquarter , two chief executive and so on . the one difference appear to be that great British Energy will mean additional power for the Secretary of State . if Labour member be so intent on hand this Secretary of State billion of pound to gamble with , I expect they will also want to replicate the independent review enact by the United Kingdom Infrastructure Bank Act 2023 . new clause 1 would provide that scrutiny and , although I intend to withdraw it this evening , if the Minister would like to table a similar amendment in the other place to follow the precedent set by the Act , I assure he of our backing . the Secretary of State and his ministerial team have make big promise . it be crucial that this House can hold they accountable , as the consequence could not be more important for people ' s energy bill , people ' s job and business ' ability to succeed . as the respected energy and climate economist Dieter Helm have say , the risk be that this Government will head towards a 2029 election with industry lose and bill higher — exactly the opposite of what the electorate have be promise . the Government ' s refusal to publish evidence for their claim , to set out the detail of their plan or to engage in any meaningful policy discussion outside their normal slogan and mantra mean that their policy be more likely to fail . for example , the Secretary of State have say that this Bill and great British Energy be part of his plan to ramp up renewable at breakneck speed because every wind turbine and every solar panel construct will lead to cheap energy and great security , but that be simply not true . first , it depend on the price we pay for they . expert analysis by Cornwall Insight find that the contract for difference round that the Secretary of State bump up , and that he now boast about , will actually increase people ' s bill by £ 5 . moreover , he have advertise to the multimillion - pound energy company that he will buy whatever they sell , no matter the cost , up to 2030 . People do not need a business background to work out what that will do to price . secondly , if we be build renewable fast than we can connect they to the grid , the constraint payment need by 2030 could add hundred of pound to people ' s bill . then there be the network cost , the green levy and the cost of dispatchable power . if the Secretary of State want to replace gas , which be our main form of dispatchable power , he should set out the cost of what will replace it . the option in this country be coal , which I assume Labour Members do not want , biomass , carbon - capture gas or unproven technology , none of which will make our system cheap . all the sign be that , far from make energy cheap and more secure , this Secretary of State and his ministerial team will send people ' s bill through the roof , and more and more people be sound the alarm about whether he can even keep the light on . perhaps that be why he never commission an accurate assessment of his plan . Labour Members have 14 year in opposition , 14 year hanker for the job and the responsibility they now have , but when we ask for the full - system cost of the Secretary of State ' s approach , he could only say that it will be publish " in due course . " tomorrow , when the Budget be reveal and Government Members be defend the difficult choice that the Government will make on behalf of their constituent , they should consider how much this Secretary of State and his team be cost they : £ 12 billion in tax receipt have be lose from the North sea to press ahead to end oil and gas licence , a move no other major economy have take ; and £ 8 billion will be spend on great British Energy , a duplicate of the UK Infrastructure Bank , with no accountability to low bill or do the thing they promise their constituent . that be £ 20 billion right there . as Government Members be look their constituent in the eye — the small business owner , the struggle pensioner or the people who get on the bus to work — they should remember that a less ideological approach from this ministerial team , not one of whom have work in industry or run a business , could have spare they those painful conversation . the british public deserve to have someone put their interest above ideology . that be why we have lay our amendment , to ensure that it be british interest , more job , cheap bill and investment return that be the guide priority for great British Energy . if Government member want to be able to say to voter in five year ' time that they stick to their word , they will vote for our amendment this evening . in fact , when ask if he stand by his promise , the Prime Minster say " one of the thing I make clear in the election campaign be because I wouldn ' t make a single promise or commitment that I didn ' t think we could deliver in government — " . if their own Prime Minister stand by his statement that he would not make a single promise that he do not think he could deliver , then Labour mp have no reason not to support our amendment today . I be enjoy the right hon . member ' s lecture on energy security , but where be that argument during the last government , when they leave our country reliant on Putin and volatile fossil fuel , and when we see energy bill soar ? this Government be clean up 14 year of mess that the right hon . member ' s Government leave behind . I suggest the hon . Gentleman do some homework . we do not get our oil and gas from Putin . instead , some 50 % of our domestic gas supply come from the North sea , which the party in government be try to shut down . if he want to talk about energy market , he should do some read about how they work . on that note , I commend our amendment to the House . I call Natalie Fleet to make her maiden speech . it be the honour of my life to be in this Chamber as the Member for Bolsover , a seat make famous by the legend that be Dennis Skinner . from Calow to Pilsley , they tell I story of he singe to they on the phone , and they remind I of his witty one - liner . he show the very good of politic : what can be achieve when we send one of our own here to fight for we . I accept a long time ago that I will not fill his shoe , but when I feel like I do not belong here , I remember that I be follow in the footstep of a " beast " , whose legacy be that kid like I can be here against the odd . Dennis famously praise half the member on the Conservative Benches for not be crook , and I like to think that he would have include his successor , Mark Fletcher , in that group . Mark see that kid in Bolsover be 10 % less likely than those in the rest of England and Wales to get high education qualification , and he fight to change that . he work so hard to get we our own sixth form within Bolsover . I be also passionate about smash down barrier to opportunity , so that be a fight that I be delighted to take up . Mark make the most of his time here . he appreciate the privilege of serve and continue to show that there be more that unite we than divide we . I wish he so very well . in his maiden speech , Dennis speak about the more than 10 , 000 work miner he represent . I do not have that pleasure . bear at the start of the strike , I grow up see our pit go . I have to stop visit the canteen that my Dar take I to on the way to race the pigeon , because it close . my community grieve , and I grow up see more kid like I go to prison than to university . in place of industry , mine be a story of the state — step in , once again , to pick up the piece and make sure that every child can reach their potential . I be really lucky to have a government that prioritise my education , and that give teacher like Mrs Gregory the opportunity to nurture I , as she do . when my home be dangerous , there be police to keep we safe . when I do not have a home at all , the state step in . when I be pregnant at 15 , I have a government that wrap their arm around I in the form of sure Start . well still , they implement a long - term strategy that mean that when I visit school in Bolsover now , there be less child face parenthood . that be really cool . I always feel like the exception , but I be see more family struggle than ever before . that be why it have be so heartbreaking to see the state rip back again . a care home in Shirebrook and a day centre in Bolsover face closure . kid in South Normanton be wait year for special educational need support . some 52 % of child in Carr Vale live in poverty although their parent work hard to earn . it be not just our most vulnerable who be struggle . professional in Creswell be access food bank that never use to exist . there be more antisocial behaviour in Whitwell because there be less police . mortgage be up in Barlborough . the amount that people can buy with their money in Tibshelf have go down . the reason I be here — the reason I leave my family every week to do this — be because I feel so deeply about the difference that politic can make . thing have be well before , and they will be again . that change have begin . I be here to make sure that this powerful state have the most positive impact on life in Bolsover . this great british Energy Bill will mean that less child in Pleasley have their light switch off as they be do their homework . kid in Holmewood can start the day with full tummy because they will have free breakfast club . child in Glapwell will not have to feel the shame of ask their parent to pay for their school trip , because those parent will have good job , and great term and condition . family in Clowne will get access to dentist , and entrepreneur can succeed in Wessington , with global company invest in Markham Vale . my daughter can start her own family in Pinxton , make I the world ' s proud Nana , know that this Government will make get childcare that much easy . for my daughter and my soon - to - be granddaughter , and for your daughter and granddaughter , I stand here proudly as the first woman MP for Bolsover . it be a privilege to be a part of the most diverse government in our country ' s history , because representation matter . I stand on the shoulder of the woman who come before I , and who raise , support , educate and mentor I . they throw that ladder down and would not take it up until I have grab it . they be woman like Gloria De Piero , who show I that we be not all the same , and who prove to I that we can carry the scar of poverty and still belong in this House ; Bess of Hardwick , who never take no for an answer , build the good of Tudor England and put her initial on the top of her house for we all to see ; Margaret Cavendish , who be not mad but a difficult woman ahead of her time ; and Arkwright ' s Norma Dolby , who keep her community together during the strike , face police intimidation and make sure the miner ' family be feed . be the first woman to stand in this post be a huge privilege , but it come with a great responsibility . it be my duty to speak up for the woman in my constituency whose story be not be tell , even when it be difficult to do so , and even when I wish they be story that they do not have — like those woman who have be rape and be have to wait year for trial ; attempt suicide as they fear that nobody will believe they . I have a moral obligation to speak on behalf of the woman who have be hurt in the bad possible way and then tell that it be their own fault . so , to the woman in my constituency , who I represent , who will be rape today , rape tomorrow and rape every day of this Parliament , I say : " I do not know where you be , I can not find you , but you can find I . I will believe you , I will support you , and I will fight to make sure that we can all tell our truth , back by a Government who will make it easy for we to get justice , determine to make sure that our daughter grow up safe . " be able to speak your truth until you can — that be privilege . so , to the people of Bolsover , I say that I be thrilled to be here , for my family and for yours . I will not let you down . it be a pleasure to follow the maiden speech of the hon . member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) , who show real courage in talk with emotion , pride and passion , which be not always easy in this place . today we be debate a number of amendment relate to the strategic priority of great British Energy , and that will be the focus of my remark today . I rise to ask the Government to assure the House that , give that this be not specifically mention in the Bill , they understand that one of the big challenge we face when it come to decarbonisation be in relation to heating , and to make that a strategic priority . the UK have more than 28 . 5 million home , and another 1 . 9 million building , office , hospital , shop , warehouse and more , the majority of which be heat by gas boiler , which also provide hot water . nearly one fifth of all the UK ' s emission come from these building . the Climate Change Committee consider decarbonise heat to be one of the great challenge we face in get to net zero , but that be not specify in the Bill . get to net zero by 2050 will require we to pull every possible lever available . GB Energy need to encompass the full thermodynamic meaning of the term energy , rather than focus just on electricity . although there be much to be say for the current plan to use air source and ground source heat pump alongside other method of use electric to heat building , attempt to convert our entire housing stock to this approach will place enormous strain on our electricity grid and supply chain . when we consider this issue , there be one stand - out technology that will help we : geothermal energy , both shallow and deep . I be pleased to tell the House that there be cross - party consensus on this topic , and I have be able to work with a number of member across the House , include the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) , for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) , for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) , for Rushcliffe ( James Naish ) and other to form the deep geothermal all - party parliamentary group . although I have mention shallow geothermal , which include technology such as coal mine water , promote by the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) , my remark will focus on deep geothermal . when I be first introduce to deep geothermal technology , my reaction be that it must be too good to be true : an environmentally friendly , dependable and cost - effective source of heat and power that can be find right under out foot — surely not . but over the past few year I have be pleasantly surprised to learn that deep geothermal be , in fact , just as good as it sound . this technology use the heat from naturally occur source of hot water deep underground to generate a large amount of usable heat and energy . in the UK , heat , rather than electricity , be the key benefit of deep geothermal , as that good match the resource in county such as East Sussex . this naturally occur heat be a real resource — just as wind and sunlight be for other technology , but unlike they it be there all year round whatever the weather . may I applaud my hon . friend for really champion this innovative source of energy ? may I officially log my support for Hampshire as well , because in our previous conversation we have speak about the potential for part of my county to exploit this energy source ? do he agree that , whether Labour say that it will not raise taxis on work people , or that GB Energy will reduce energy bill by £ 300 , its promise be fall apart and the real way to low energy cost be not by set up quango that cost the taxpayer billion of pound , but by invest in innovative energy form such as geothermal and other form such as North sea oil and gas , which the previous Government do . my right hon . friend be right that the Government have make some big claim in this House , but the detail of the work and how to get we over the line in an affordable , cost - effective way be 10 time more challenging than that , and that reality be fast catch up with they . we have see across Europe how deep geothermal be contribute to this challenge . it heat more than a quarter of a million home in Paris , and the french Government aim to increase the number of scheme by 40 % by 2030 . Munich be pour in € 1 billion through to 2035 to develop deep geothermal and make the city ' s heating carbon neutral . more widely , Germany be already produce more than 353 MWh annually and the Government be target at least 100 new geothermal project . there be a particular opportunity for use deep geothermal to decarbonise our NHS building estate . the Minister will know that the NHS have set its own target to reach net zero carbon emission by 2040 . this be a very challenging target give the size of the hospital estate and the need to decarbonise its heating . but hospital be fantastic anchor candidate for deep geothermal plant . they be big user of heat and can help build a successful business case . the advantage of work across the NHS be that we can potentially bundle up opportunity across a number of site to create a big investment opportunity . however and wherever we use it , deep geothermal plant would allow we to recruit from an entirely different workforce and an exist part of the economy in deliver net zero , and this be a workforce on which we already lead . our oil and gas industry be one of the good in the western world , with world - beat company and workforce with a long history of success not just in the North sea but globally . deep geothermal provide we the opportunity to recruit that workforce to drill for clean , green heat instead of fossil fuel . this will not only help we to get to net zero more quickly , but help this industry transition , with all the job it currently hold , investment in pension fund and other thing , so that they can contribute positively to net zero . deep geothermal potential be also particularly prevalent in location that be economically fall behind in the UK . there be a decent alignment between area that have be leave behind and need an economic boost , and area that would be good for this technology . we have see how coastal community have benefit from offshore wind , for example . we need the investment in climate change technology to be spread as widely as possible . there be other benefit , too . unlike solar and wind , geothermal do not require large swathe of land . a site can be as small as one or two acre . there can be no well example of the minimal environmental impact of a plant than the Eden project plant that recently open in Cornwall , nestle alongside the famous biodome and surround by green countryside . give all of this , I hope the Minister will understand why I be keen to ensure that , in the light of the Bill , GB Energy be suitably tasked to make the most of this resource . as mention , the wording in the Bill perhaps lack clarity , so , on the face of it , this would provide the assurance that we be look for . under clause 3 , which state that one of the objective of GB Energy be " the production , distribution , storage and supply of clean energy " , clean energy be define as " energy produce from source other than fossil fuel . " we do not know whether this include source of energy relate to heat , or whether the Government believe that this relate to electricity . by consider heat production as well , GB Energy can tackle the climate crisis from all angle , use as many avenue as it can to address the challenge . I suggest that the Minister consider include as part of GB Energy ' s strategic priority the exploitation of geothermal , deep and shallow , and I ask he for his view on that proposal . I know that if GB Energy be direct to support this industry , it will propel we close to solve one of the most difficult challenge that we have face in relation to heat . if we dig deep on geothermal , we will help level up the UK and reap the reward this will provide . it be a pleasure to follow the maiden speech of my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) , who have prove by her passion and ability that she will soon emerge from the shadow of the beast and make the constituency her own . I welcome the Report stage of the Bill , which will be the first to pass into law in this Parliament . labour be deliver change within week of come into office . the Bill have the potential to transform not just the way in which we produce power in this country and the impact that we have on our burn planet , but the way we live our life . it could also have a transformative effect on the community we serve . I commend the work of the Secretary of State and , in particular , of the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , who have seize the agenda and grasp the potential of that transformation , which could be huge . it will match the scale and ambition of Tom Johnson , the legendary Labour Secretary of State for Scotland who bring power to the glen through the creation of the hydroelectric dam scheme that be now part of the highland landscape . move to renewable and transition away from carbon must involve balance and maintain job in the North sea , which be such a vital element not just of our economic and energy mix , but of the income of many family in Na h - Eileanan an lar . that be why I welcome the move to introduce a skill passport to help worker transition from one industry to the other , and why I welcome the co - operation this week between the UK Government and the Scottish Government in review the outdated bureaucratic process build new infrastructure and create large energy project . untangle that regulatory framework and rewire the national grid be a hugely complicated exercise . the Bill will achieve that by set up a company , GB Energy , which will itself be the vehicle for reduce bill , involve community and transform the way we produce energy . if the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) , be look for £ 300 off energy bill , she can accompany I to the village of Tolsta in my constituency , where one community - own turbine have just distribute , as it happen , £ 300 per household to help people with their household bill and energy need . community energy will be a large part of what GB Energy do . we hear in evidence from Juergen Maier , who will chair GB Energy , that he and the Labour Government be commit to community energy as part of that mix . some of the amendment will seek to make community energy a part of the found structure of the Bill . it will be part of the company , as set out in the explanatory note to the Bill , but there be no necessity — [ interruption . ] it be not necessary — just say it in Gaelic ! I could have say it in Gaelic . [ laughter . ] it be not necessary for that to be part of the Bill or the company . community must be at the heart of what GB Energy do , and community energy be at the heart of much of the wind production in my constituency — although there be commercial plan , too . Scotland ' s community - own wind farm provide , on average , 34 time more benefit payment to local community . I have give the example of just one village with one turbine , so imagine what three estate with nine turbine could do in term of community benefit . let we be in no doubt , the transformative move towards wind - farming — onshore and offshore — will be mean an extremely profitable , multibillion - pound industry . community that host such infrastructure , or which have serious infrastructure pass through their area , must benefit as well . People will not mind the pylon go past as long as some of the profit come to they . that will be a critical part of the contract between GB Energy , developer and community . community settle and make deal should not be leave to chance . do the hon . member seriously think that people in my constituency and across Lincolnshire and the east of England will be happy with thousand and thousand of huge pylon go through their area , damage the value of their property and business ? I remind the hon . member that to switch on one lightbulb in Lincoln from a turbine on the Isle of Lewis will require a link and a chain of domino to fall in order , on a scale that we have only ever see in the Guinness record book . for each of those dominos to stay in place , the community along that line must be involve and reward locally , or nationally with a sovereign wealth fund , to ensure that they play a part and have a sense of ownership in the transformation . the only way for this to succeed be if we all benefit . the wealth of wind be own by no one man , and we should all share in the transformation . that be what I think GB Energy will deliver , and it be why I support the Bill . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I start by thank the Minister for how constructively he have work with I , and by thank the hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) for his word just now . I also thank all the colleague who have sit on the great british Energy Bill Committee . it be encouraging that this legislation have be give a prime spot at the beginning of this Parliament , and I thank the Clerks and the Speaker ' s Office for their diligent work in administer the Bill thus far , as well as all the member who have take the opportunity to represent their constituent ' aspiration and concern regard the Bill . as many member know , this be my first Bill as spokesperson for energy security and net zero , and I have appreciate all the support I have be give . I also acknowledge colleague from across the House who have lend their support to the amendment to which I be go to speak , and have also table their own . in particular , I recognise the contribution make by the hon . member for Waveney Valley ( Adrian Ramsay ) , whose amendment promote a nature recovery duty . he will know that nature recovery be close to my heart , and that I raise that topic in Committee . last week , I have the privilege of attend the UN conference on biodiversity in Cali , Colombia — a poignant reminder of how it be impossible to address climate change and energy security without tackle the nature emergency . national energy infrastructure must therefore be nature - positive and align with the obligation in the Environment Act 2021 . as the Minister know , the Liberal Democrats support the Bill in principle , because we want a nationwide energy system that will bring down energy bill and provide clean , green energy . amendment 3 , which stand in my name , would guarantee that great British Energy be establish within six month of the Bill become law . we all know that as a result of the Conservative Government ' s delay and dither , we be not on track to meet our ambitious target . I echo that . Torbay have an oven - ready solar scheme that would power our hospital and our council , yet because the national grid be not fit for purpose , that scheme have remain a blueprint . do my hon . friend agree that building capacity in the national grid be absolutely essential if this Bill be to be successful ? I agree very much with my hon . friend . national grid capacity be critical if we be to unblock all of these project , which be so critical to power our community service , our public service and the national economy . that be why we need to ensure there be no delay , and that be what amendment 3 speak to . amendment 4 , which also stand in my name , would ensure that great British Energy have an explicit duty to help deliver energy efficiency through " an emergency home insulation programme with target support for people on low income " , as well as the expansion of renewable . this Bill have the power to transform life , but also to protect life . warm hub be become too familiar in my constituency of South Cambridgeshire : Comberton , Duxford , Melbourn , Meldreth and Toft be just a few of the village hub run by amazing volunteer in the local community that provide warmth to those who have to make the heartbreaking choice between heating and eat . it be frankly astonishing that this be now a reality for so many in the UK in 2024 , and be a damn indictment of the last government ' s record on prioritise home insulation . insulated home mean warm home , which in turn mean safe home . the NHS spend an estimate £ 1 . 4 billion annually on treat illness associate with people live in cold and damp housing , and amendment 4 would seek to address this . amendment 4 also seek to capitalise on our unique opportunity to be world - lead in renewable energy , which the Lib Dems know from our own track record . we must ensure that great British Energy be duty - bind to support those activity . if renewable energy and home insulation can be roll out at speed so that we can meet those vital climate target , that will reduce energy demand , bring down energy bill and provide green , future - proof , well - pay job for the UK . I turn to amendment 5 on community energy . at every stage of the Bill , the liberal Democrats have raise our concern , and those of many mp from other party and of the many community energy group and community that we represent , that as it stand , the Bill be miss a vital limb . it list four object for great British Energy , but nowhere do it mention support the growth of community energy . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way . she mention community energy and I wonder if she recognise , as I do , the value of project such as Stockport Hydro in Romiley in my constituency , which since 2012 have be use its two Archimedes screw , Thunder and Lightning , to power around 60 home , thereby save more than 100 tonne of co2 a year . be that the sort of project that she think the Bill should do more to support and encourage , so that we can tackle climate change and ensure that community benefit from community energy project ? I thank my hon . friend for that fantastic example from her constituency , which be exactly the kind of project we be talk about . we know that " local power generation be an essential part of the energy mix , ensure community own and benefit from clean power project , and reduce pressure on the transmission grid . " in fact , those word be take from the Government ' s found statement for great British Energy , and the Minister say in this Chamber that " great British Energy will deliver a step change in investment in local and community energy project , put local authority and community at the heart of the energy transition . " — [ Official Report , 5 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 530 . ] yet the community energy sector be bring almost to a standstill by the former Conservative Government , and barrier still exist in sell directly to customer and in the cost of connect to the grid , so welcome word be not enough . I thank the hon . Lady for give way . I would like to clarify what she say about there not be anything in the Bill about community energy . it be in the found statement of GB Energy , because we know the importance of locally deliver community energy in facilitate this transformation . I want to correct that for the record , because the suggestion that community energy be not one of the aim of this legislation be a misunderstanding . I appreciate that , which be why I quote from the found statement . the problem be that those word be not enshrine in the Bill itself , which be why we be surprised that the Government continue to vote down amendment that would put community at the heart of the Bill . we will continue to push on that . I thank the 58 member from different party who have support amendment 5 , which require that the statement of strategic priority for great British Energy have specific regard to community - base clean energy scheme . I would also like to give recognition to my colleague who be lead the way in promote the benefit of community energy , include my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) , as we have just hear . do the hon . Lady recall the evidence of Juergen Maier , EDF , SSE and the Minister to the Committee ? they all give commitment to community energy and to the local power plan be almost an eighth — almost £ 1 billion - worth — of GB Energy ' s plan . in fact , I say at the beginning of my contribution that I welcome the constructive debate in Committee . if the Government have buy into the idea of community energy , do my hon . friend not think it odd that they be so afraid to put it in the Bill ? I could not have put it well myself . I thank my hon . friend for lead the fight for the Liberal Democrats as the former spokesperson on energy security and net zero . that question go to the crux of the matter . we have fantastic example from many community of how important community energy be . my hon . friend the Member for Inverness , Skye and West Ross - shire ( Mr MacDonald ) lead the recent Westminster Hall debate , in which there be fantastic example from rural community of how they feel about community benefit . there be also the effort of my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) in support the Aikengall community wind farm , which provide a direct benefit of an amazing £ 120 , 000 for the community . community energy be not just for Scotland . in my own county of Cambridgeshire , there be the Swaffham Prior community heat network , and the village be the first of its kind to switch to reliable zero - carbon heating . it be start by the Swaffham Prior Community Land Trust , and it address fuel poverty and the village ' s reliance on oil heating . the Liberal Democrats will continue to promote those who have pioneer community energy scheme , prove their worth and champion their critical importance to our energy future . while the Government have not previously back our amendment , which be incomprehensible to we , I be grateful to the Minister for the conversation we have have recently and the assurance he have give we that the Government really do want to make provision in the Bill for community energy in the Lords . I look forward to support our colleague in the other place in this endeavour , but the intervention from Labour Members — say that this will be in the found statement and the strategic priority , but not in the Bill — be cause we to doubt that commitment . I therefore urge the Government to make good on their promise . we know their commitment to community energy , so let that be understand clearly and let we put it in the Bill . I call Adam Thompson to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your kind invitation to present my first speech . may I first congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) on her deeply move and powerful speech this afternoon , alongside the many member who have speak for the first time in this House in recent day and week ? if the high bar set by the new member of this House be indicative of the quality of debate to follow in the come Parliament , I be very confident about the future of our nation . in my own first speech , I will lay out why I stand to represent my home of Erewash , my plan for my time in Parliament and why I love the area I now have the honour of represent . by the way , before I start in earnest , for the information of all member present , the constituency be pronounce " eh - ruh - wash " or occasionally " eh - ree - wash " , but never under any circumstance " ear - wash " . I look forward to see how that be record in Hansard . I begin my speech by thank my predecessor , Maggie Throup , for her effort in serve the people of Erewash over the past nine year . Maggie work diligently for our community , consistently lobby for funding to support our town and village . give her background in the health sector , Maggie regularly contribute to health policy throughout her tenure , and she serve the nation admirably through the latter stage of covid - 19 as Vaccines Minister . while Maggie and I rarely see eye to eye on policy , our relationship across the political divide have always be courteous and collegiate , and I wish she the very good for the future . I would also like to pay tribute to my colleague Liz Blackman , who serve Erewash as our Member of Parliament throughout the last Labour Government . Liz ' s guidance during my campaign to become the MP for Erewash be invaluable , and I be sure I will continue to seek her advice throughout my tenure . in my first month in Parliament , as I have meet colleague from across the country , the question I have most frequently be ask be : " what even be an Erewash , anyway ? " name for the river and the canal , we comprise two town — Ilkeston and Long Eaton — the five village of Breaston , Draycott , Risley , Sandiacre and Stanton - by - Dale , and other community in Sawley , Kirk Hallam and Cotmanhay . more often , though , I find it easy to answer , with a reference to our geography , simply , " we ' re junction 25 of the M1 . " like many town that operate as a binary star , Ilkeston and Long Eaton exist in a delicate balance , with resident of Ilkeston — or " Ilson " , as we call it — regularly declare , " Long Eaton get everything . " it be probably no surprise then , Madam Deputy Speaker , that if you spend 10 minute talk to someone in Long Eaton , you would similarly and resoundingly hear the mantra , " Ilkeston get everything . " I should note that I have sanitise these statement somewhat ; reference to the other town in my constituency be often a little more colourful . in truth , both of our town have be hard do by for the past 14 year . despite the hard work of incredible and passionate teaching and support staff , for example , many of our school struggle with underfunding — something I witness at first hand when I train as a secondary physics teacher . both high street have decline , and while town funding be help to support Long Eaton ' s regeneration , the underlie problem remain : antisocial behaviour , crime , shopkeeper force out by online giant , and a general malaise and the feeling that nothing will fix the foundation . despite the difficulty we face , I would like to explain why Erewash be a fantastic place by pay tribute to the people and the group in our town who be do everything they can to lift the area up by its bootstrap — people like Joe Cahill , who , by liaise with shopkeeper and landlord through a local Facebook group focus on incredible independent shop , have empower our community and begin restore Ilkeston as a thriving market town . similarly , I commend the work of Paul Opiah and other in build the new Friends of Ilkeston Town Centre , provide grassroots regeneration to our town . the effort of Joe and Paul have be fantastic and I want to provide they with more support . Joe recently note that he have do as much as he could without change the law to bring the remain , rot shop unit back into service — unit that be currently hold hostage by absentee landlord . I be therefore excited about the Government ' s proposal to revive our town centre , and I will do everything in my power to support local people in their effort . in Long Eaton , I pay tribute to Scott Clayton and his team , who have create a beautiful new community focus on support mental health through the joy of song , where man of all ability can come together to sing and discuss their issue . it be a pleasure during my campaign to become a Member of Parliament to join Scott and the Bluetonic community and to dive head first out of my comfort zone to sing with new friend . I also pay tribute to Chris and Jackie Brookes , along with the team at Long Eaton rugby football club . the club serve Long Eaton so well , provide access to sport in our local park for child and adult , and support local charity and the armed force community . after grow substantially over the past decade in the man ' s game , in the woman ' s game and now with its new mini side , Long Eaton RFC have become a pillar of our community . then there be Lindsay Rice and her team , who have build a food bank and a lunch club , and be on their way to create a brand - new Ilkeston carnival through their Every one Eats institute , alongside the collective church in Long Eaton that have similarly support those in our community struggle through poverty . Lindsay recently ask I , " Adam , as a food bank , when be you go to shut we down ? " I respond , " as soon as possible , Lindsay , as soon as possible . " Erewash have a thrive veteran community , and as a member of the Royal British Legion , I be very proud that our current mayor , Councillor Kate fennelly , be a Royal Air Force veteran . I recently meet the local charitable trust , Forces Veterans Afloat , which do incredible work housing veteran for whom brick and mortar be not the answer on narrowboat . as a cadet warrant officer in 1344 ( Cardiff ) Squadron ATC for much of my childhood , I have long support our force and veteran ; without 1344 and the citizenship , leadership and community spirit instill in I by the wide cadet movement , I would not be stand here as a Member of Parliament . Erewash be the birthplace of many national star , from Douglas Houghton , Baron Houghton of Sowerby , who serve our country in the first world war and in Harold Wilson ' s Government as the last British Cabinet Minister bear in the 19th century , through to Robert Lindsay , who have play countless part , include the infamous Wolfie in " Citizen Smith " and the former Prime Minister , Tony Blair . we also have Bru - C , who today be put Long Eaton on the map in the grime scene . our town , village , and people be fantastic , but they have be let down by the previous Government , by politician and by their country . so what do I bring to this place , and what do I hope to do for Erewash ? my background be in academia and education . in my previous day job , I teach engineering apprentice at the University of Nottingham . I work there for a decade , specialise in metrology research and train the next generation of world - lead manufacturer . I believe I be the first metrologist elect to this place , metrology be the science of measure thing and definitely not meteorology — as I say in the opening quote to my phd thesis , it have absolutely nothing to do with cloud . Erewash , and the wide east midland , have long be the engine of our nation ' s manufacturing base , produce everything from drain cover — look down on nearly every street in the country to see the logo of the famous Stanton Iron Works — to the fine lace wear by the Princess of Wales on her wedding day , produce by Cluny Lace in Ilkeston , to tunnel for HS2 make by Sateba UK , and composite motorsport and aerospace component from Atlas Composite . I want to see an expansion of our manufacture base through an industrial strategy and reform of the apprenticeship levy , so that we can cement Erewash ' s position as a centre for advanced manufacturing . we also need new infrastructure to build the new home to support our local economic growth , which I be glad to see the Government commit to . as the Stanton industrial regeneration site grow , I will fight every day for infrastructure work . we need a new junction on the M1 to support the grow industry in the area and to reduce the impact on resident in Sandiacre and Ilkeston , who currently endure a huge volume of heavy good vehicle pass through the town . I be proud today to support the great british Energy Bill . for year , my constituent in Erewash have suffer through rise bill , because of our exposure to dictator - control fossil fuel market . now that Ratcliffe - on - Soar power station , just outside my constituency , have burn its final lump of coal , I look forward to the investment in our community that GB Energy will bring and the reward that we will reap in energy security , clean power and new job . it be the most incredible honour for I to represent my home of Erewash . I would not be here without my partner , my family , my friend and my incredible campaign team , who , by constant repetition of our mantra of be five point behind under any circumstance , begin the process of change our country for the well . come from a background of education and science , I look forward to contribute to evidence - base policy debate and apply my scientific training in this House . stand here , I feel the weight of my community , the weight of responsibility , and the weight of the need to deliver a well future for my constituent and the whole country . throughout my tenure , I will always be guide by reason not dogma , by the scientific method and by a desire to serve . I be pleased to speak in this debate , and the Green group of MPs be pleased to back this Bill . I will be speak in support of new clause 2 and 3 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Waveney Valley ( Adrian Ramsay ) , which be design to make the Bill even strong . the new clause would create a new nature recovery duty for Great British Energy and prevent investment that increase climate emission . I thank the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) for her statement of support for my hon . friend ' s work and for make the Bill well for nature recovery . I also thank she for her proposal on insulation and community energy , which we support . all those thing be vital for the Bill ' s success . if nature recovery be to be important in the Government ' s present drive , do the hon . member accept that renewable energy have be destructive of nature ? some 17 million tree have be cut down in Scotland to facilitate windmill . now , there be study indicate that offshore wind be lead to dead porpoise , dead dolphin and dead whale be wash up on beach because of the effect of drilling . I do not agree with all the assertion that the right hon . member make , but the duty be intend precisely to ensure that every single project would have a positive impact on nature . under new clause 3 , they would all be renewable project . the nature recovery duty under new clause 2 would help GB Energy invest only in project that deliver significant biodiversity benefit and meet target under the Environment Act 2021 , by build nature - friendly design feature into renewable energy project and create and restore habitat on development site in and around clean energy infrastructure . the Bill Committee hear from Shaun Spiers of Green Alliance , who make a strong case for a nature recovery duty be create for GB Energy . the ensue discussion see the Crown Estate use as an example for how a public body could deliver for nature without have a statutory duty to do so . however , the Crown Estate be a highly relevant case study that demonstrate why non - statutory duty be not enough . the Crown Estate ' s lack of a statutory duty to consider nature in its own decision making have lead to its involvement in a number of environmentally damaging scheme . for example , let we consider mining proposal in the Sperrin mountain area of outstanding natural beauty in Northern Ireland . the Crown Estate enter into an initial mineral extraction agreement with a mining company there in 2016 , lead to proposal for goldmine . that have provoke significant environmental concern about harmful chemical and waste from mining operation pollute nearby river and degrade the surround AONB . an application be submit in 2017 and be now subject to a public inquiry , follow nearly 40 , 000 objection from local people . so an abundance of warm word about protect and conserve the environment , and about the Crown Estate ' s status as a public body , do not inhibit it from play a role in a project that threaten nature . the hon . Lady mention Northern Ireland and particularly the Sperrin mountain , which be an area of great natural beauty . it have many feature , include wildlife and wild upland , but it have be industrialise . I take a motorbike journey around the area three week ago , and there be hundred of huge wind turbine . the peat have be dig up , the landscape have be destroy and thousand of bird be kill every year . what have happen in the Sperrin mountain be hardly a good example of renewable energy be nature - friendly . I be sure we can have those debate in the context of a statutory duty . these be important question to consider . I want to give some other example of public body damage nature , because they abound — from the granting of new oil and gas licence in marine protect area by the North Sea Transition Authority , to Highways England pursue damaging road construction project on the edge of national park . without legal backing , nature consideration can be and be brush aside . there be no reason to think that Great British Energy , without a duty to consider nature recovery , will be any different . a statutory duty to deliver for nature ' s recovery would be complementary to GB Energy ' s other objective around clean energy , energy efficiency and energy security . it would also reflect the Government ' s manifesto commitment to tackle the interconnected nature and climate crisis together . I hope the Government will carefully consider those argument . new clause 3 , which be also table by my hon . friend the Member for Waveney Valley , be vital to guarantee that our energy investment be not only financially responsible but align with the legal requirement to reach net zero by 2050 . as legislator , we have a duty to hold GB Energy accountable , prevent investment that will lock we into high - carbon energy pathway and undermine our net zero commitment . the new clause mandate environmental impact assessment before any investment be make , ensure that each decision be ground in evidence . it force we to ask , " will this investment push we at speed towards , or risk pull we away from , our climate goal ? " publish those assessment open the process to public scrutiny — an essential principle in democracy . the public deserve to know exactly how their tax money be be use , particularly when it come to funding project that may exacerbate the climate crisis . the new clause would also bar public money from be spend on fossil fuel and unsustainable high - carbon project such as biomass . we can not ignore the fact : Drax , the large biomass - burn plant in the UK , emit over 11 million tonne of co2 in 2023 . worse still , it receive nearly £ 900 million in Government subsidy a year . if we allow investment in project such as Drax or new fossil fuel infrastructure , we risk undermine the very goal we be try to achieve . the new clause would close the door on such contradiction . when we talk about greenhouse gas emission , it be crucial to acknowledge that carbon dioxide be not the only danger . methane be a greenhouse gas with over 80 time the warm potential of co2 over a 20 - year period . methane emission , often associate with fossil fuel extraction and agriculture , must be tightly control to ensure that the UK meet its climate commitment . the new clause would ensure that all climate emission , include methane , be thoroughly assess before any public investment be make . if we do not account for methane and other greenhouse gas , we risk underestimate the climate impact of certain energy project , and particularly those relate to natural gas production and transport . fossil fuel infrastructure do not just burn carbon ; it lock we into long - term dependence on dirty energy . every pound spend on high - carbon infrastructure make it hard and more expensive to transition away from fossil fuel in the time that we have . this amendment ensure that we avoid that trap , by make it impossible for great British Energy to invest in project that would limit our ability to end our reliance on carbon - emit technology . great British Energy should also be a true trailblazer in the global transition to clean energy . the amendment strengthen that mission by make clear that only project contribute to emission reduction should receive investment . with country around the world watch , we have a unique opportunity to lead by example . a failure to act boldly now will leave we behind in the global race for climate leadership . we be in a climate and nature emergency , and we can not afford to repeat the mistake of the past by far lock ourselves into harmful high - carbon infrastructure . these amendment reflect that . the stake could not be high . these decision be about secure a liveable planet for future generation . I hope the Government will listen . let I begin by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) on his maiden speech . I be delighted that he give we a lesson on how to say his constituency name . how can I say " Erewash " to far confuse Hansard ? I also congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) , who be no long in her place , but I think everyone in this House feel the passion in her speech . I look forward to hear more from she on a number of issue . I will focus my remark on how to ensure that GB Energy deliver effectively for Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom . to do that , it must generate investment that deliver tangible result and bring job and economic growth , along with the energy security that we all want . in Committee , witness say that one of the challenge for GB Energy will be find a balance between accelerate renewable energy delivery and ensure a return on investment , while support less mature technology . I agree that it will be a difficult balance to strike , but we be more likely to succeed in our investment if they be encourage in area where there be likely to be a warm welcome and strong understanding of electricity generation , and where the foundational skill and engineering heritage already exist . they include former coalfield across Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom , include in west Fife in my constituency . although the mine close decade ago , the heritage of electricity generation live on in the Longannet power station near Kincardine , on the bank of the River Forth . construct in the 1960 , Longannet be once Europe ' s big coal - fire power station and one of the large carbon emitter on the continent , before shut down in 2016 . have represent that community as a councillor , I know that people across west Fife accept that coal have to go and thing have to move on , but they want something to replace it . like so much of our past energy infrastructure , and like in so many industry , Longannet be close down with little or no consideration for what might replace it or how the thousand of job lose could be replace and the skill maintain , particularly in the rural village of west Fife , where lose even a few family or employee can put their whole sustainability at risk . I believe that GB Energy and the investment opportunity that it present be a chance to change that . the site be currently be safely demolish by ScottishPower , but there be still no clear plan for the future of the site . Longannet be perfectly situate to play its part once again in help to provide electricity for our country and leverage some of the £ 60 billion possible investment that could be available via GB Energy . the site be designate for major employment , and due to its location right on the coast it be likely to be suitable for major industrial use only . it have the potential to bring job and investment to the coalfield village of west Fife and the whole of central Scotland , secure opportunity for those community to fulfil the aspiration of the people live there . despite be list as a strategic priority site by the Scottish Government , they have have no plan for it , and from what be available in the public domain , it seem they have not prioritise any action at all in recent year . promise make of train manufacturing be bring to the site come to nothing , and the decision by that company to withdraw from an agreement come to light only because of a freedom of information request I make back in 2022 . nothing be discuss publicly at all . indeed , some people in that community still talk about when the train manufacturer be come . similarly , both Fife council and Scottish Enterprise have struggle to engage with ScottishPower about the future of the site , although I have a meeting with ScottishPower this week , and I hope to gain more clarity after that . will the Minister , in wind up , agree to meet I and other stakeholder to ensure that site such as Longannet , once a symbol of scottish and UK electricity generation and the skill that come with it , be priority for GB Energy ? how will it work with the industry to create the right plan to bring investment to the area ? we know the wreckage that the conservative party make of UK and scottish industry over the past decade : change without a plan . GB Energy offer an opportunity not only to have a plan for our low - carbon secure energy future , but to fix yet another part of the mess leave for we by the deliberate action of the Conservatives and the incompetence of the SNP in Scotland . the Bill be a huge opportunity for Scotland . we must ensure that it be pass today , so it can get on with its work as quickly as possible . I pay tribute to the two excellent maiden speech that we have hear so far in this debate , from the hon . member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) and for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) . I hope that people from former mining community be listen to this debate , because I be sure they will have some choice word to say about a Conservative talk about de - industrialisation . in Wales , we will never forget what the Conservatives do to our industry , and the job and future they take away from people . do the hon . Gentleman therefore appreciate why conservative be so concerned that the plan come forward from the Labour Government will do exactly the same to north - east Scotland if this be not handle properly ? I thank the hon . member for that contribution . De - industrialisation have be happen for a very long time across the United Kingdom , and we be yet to see a real industrial strategy that would restore the wealth , prosperity and job that use to exist across our industrial area in the entire United Kingdom . Wales stand ready to play its part in power the United Kingdom once again , but this time Wales would like to experience the tangible benefit from these project . in my constituency , Llangattock Green Valleys have the ambition to develop plan for a large , community - own renewable energy scheme to supply premise in the Crickhowell region . the scheme will have a mix of technology , such as solar , hydro , wind and storage , to give a year - round supply of energy . it will be develop from the start in consultation with the community . it will be manage by the community and the profit will benefit the community itself . we Liberal Democrats be firm believer that this be exactly the model of community ownership that will provide community with security and prosperity well into the future . it be for this reason that I urge all member to support amendment 5 and ensure that the Bill put the principle of community ownership at the very front and centre of what the Government be try to achieve . I welcome the Bill , which bring we one step close to establish this much - need , publicly own energy company . to quote the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) , at the UN General Assembly , this be a Government who be " willing to tell the truth " and " show international leadership " when it come to climate change . in that spirit , I would like to bring to the attention of the House the importance of uphold human right and the principle of a just transition in our renewable energy supply chain . I be hearten by the determination of our Front Bench to see human right protect across our energy transition . when question on forced labour in the solar industry , the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my right hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , state that he " would expect and demand there to be no modern slavery in any part of the supply chain " — [ Official Report , 5 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 418 . ] in a similar vein , the Minister for Development , my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) , recently speak about " galvanise just energy transition partnership , to make sure that everyone feel the benefit of green innovation " . while GB Energy must ensure that everyone benefit from green innovation , it must also guarantee that no one suffer from it . however , I have grave concern that if we charge ahead with our net zero transition without safeguard in place , we will knowingly be do that on the back of those in slavery . let I outline why . wind turbine , solar panel , electric vehicle and battery storage all require large quantity of critical mineral . there be conclusive evidence of human right abuse associate with critical mineral . the abuse be most severe and systemic in the Xinjiang Uyghur autonomous region of China , where the chinese Government be systematically persecute million of Uyghur , Turkic and muslim majority people on the basis of their religion and ethnicity . it be well document that the low tier of our solar supply chain be concentrate there , and have a sinister dependency on state - impose Uyghur forced - labour programme . those programme have bolster China ' s global market share , which exceed 80 % across the whole solar pv supply chain . I raise these concern not to undermine our business relationship with China , but because through the purchase power of GB Energy , we can protect human right around the world . my hon . Friend say that she do not want to undermine our commercial relationship with China . I do . China be carry out genocide of the Uyghurs . it be an appalling country — or , rather , it have an appalling leadership , to be precise . it be try to monopolise crucial supply chain around the world in order to oppress people . surely we should be reduce our relationship and make ourselves independent . I appreciate that my hon . friend have put that on the record . I think that what we need to be do be reduce our dependency — some might say " stranglehold " — on China for some of our most critical resource . I agree with my hon . friend about China . do she agree with I that we should be look at domestic production of critical mineral such as tin , lithium , tungsten and manganese ? in Cornwall we have plenty , and we be very hopeful that the Bill will support the opportunity that they offer . I completely agree with my hon . friend , and that , to my mind , be what GB Energy should be do . it be use its purchasing power around the world to increase human right and improve working condition , for example , but it also need to be support British - base business , because our business need that support more than ever before . what we need to be do be apply pressure on all our trading partner around the world , not just China , to improve standard . there be allegation of child labour in cobalt mining for EV battery in the Democratic Republic of Congo , and there be evidence of labour exploitation in nickel processing in Indonesia . with those example in mind , I ask the House a simple question : do we turn a blind eye to modern slavery in our energy supply chain , or do we lead the way with a just transition ? as the Chancellor outline in her conference speech , this Government be " call time on the day when government stand back … and turn a blind eye to where thing be make and who make they . " it be vital that we follow up her word with real , meaningful action , because , as thing currently stand , we be a global outlier . in 2021 the United States enact the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act , ban the importation of product from the Uyghur region , include shipment of solar panel with connection to Xinjiang . that have be highly effective , with the market respond with new , ethical supply chain . Canada and Mexico have follow suit with similar regulation , and this year the European Union pass the corporate sustainability due diligence directive , which will ensure that company prevent and address the adverse human right impact of their action . we should bear in mind that the regulation establish by those other country apply to all company . it seem to I that we should be go in that direction , rather than simply say that we will focus on one company , GB Energy . give our high ethical standard , this be the kind of sectoral approach that we should be able to create ourselves , as an international leader . my hon . friend pre - empt I . this will work only if we do it across the whole of Government and in all sector , and I want my Government to be lead the way on that . we have a hugely important role to play internationally , as well as in our own industry . the UK ' s failure to keep pace with our partner have result in the global supply chain splitting . slave - make renewable product be be redirect to country with weak regulation , such as the UK . as the other place ' s Modern Slavery Act 2015 Committee recently recognise , without forced labour import ban , the UK risk become a dumping ground for tainted product . current legislation , such as the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the Procurement Act 2023 , can not meet the scale of the problem , especially while human right due diligence remain optional for company . I appreciate that the Department be look into these issue through the solar taskforce ' s upcoming solar road map , which I really welcome . however , the solar taskforce , make up mostly of industry voice , need to have civil society and trade union on the team for its work to be truly credible . that be especially the case give my concern about Solar Energy UK ' s solar stewardship initiative , or SSI , as I be doubtful that an industry - lead solution can meet the scale of the challenge I have outline today . a just transition be not only about international worker ’ right ; it be also about secure UK job and industry . our energy strategy must prioritise green job and wealth creation here , and avoid fuel growth in economy know for cut corner . follow my discussion with the industry and union , it be clear that the UK ' s inadequate response to these issue be create a competitive disadvantage for business here and an uneven playing field internationally . if GB Energy allow exposure to state - impose forced labour , it create a distinct risk for investor and business here in the UK . the argument I have lay out today have the support of union , business and human right advocate alike . they echo the sentiment of our Prime Minister , Foreign Secretary , Business Secretary and Energy Secretary . for too many year , tackle modern slavery have receive a siloe , disjoint response from Government . we now have an opportunity to change that and to embrace cross - departmental , collaborative working . renewable energy have a key role to play in our transformation to a low - carbon economy , but without place human right at its centre , our green transition will come at a grave cost . this Bill be aptly name the great british Energy Bill . it simply can not live up to its name if it depend on modern slavery to achieve its aim . I invite hon . member to refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I thank my hon . friend the Member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) for her commitment to our essential amendment , both in Committee and here today . I also thank the hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) , who have be incredibly supportive of our ambition for community to benefit from renewable energy . I have one little correction : Tom Johnston , who invent the hydro board , and the Labour Government do not actually put in place a proper system whereby local community could benefit . they supply a lot of power to the south and the city , but it be of very little benefit to those of we live in the highland , even then . the Government have argue that nothing in this Bill limit community ownership . that be almost certainly true , but as my colleague and I have emphasise , amendment 5 would not restrict GB Energy ; it would simply clarify that community - lead energy be a priority . the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , recently experience a powerful story of community - drive energy on his visit to the island of Eigg . just 25 year ago , Eigg ' s resident , frustrate by year of poor management and a lack of investment , take matter into their hand and purchase their island . the Eigg buy - out succeed in 1997 , spark what be now a beacon of self - sustain energy . since then , Eigg have move away from fossil fuel , become the world ' s first island to generate 24 - hour electricity from a variety of different renewable . this small community of just 110 people demonstrate the innovation and resilience that flourish when community be empower . Eigg ' s journey be a true example of prioritise community ownership and how that drive forward sustainability and local resilience . to paraphrase the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , community involvement be critical , not a mere " nice to have " . if we be to build the infrastructure of the future , we must ensure that community benefit directly . community - drive project be key to make that a reality , so let we follow Eigg ' s lead and put the Government ' s own word into action . the current Government have an opportunity here to show their commitment to cross - party collaboration by embrace community energy . we be all align on the goal , so let we not get bogge down by technicality or party politic . the Minister know of the huge cross - party support for community energy ownership . if this go to a vote , do this Government really want to vote against community energy ownership ? let we show the people of Britain that this Bill truly support the right to own and benefit from our natural resource through great British Energy . it be an honour to welcome this Bill as it be move forward , and I want to commend the leadership of the Secretary of State and the Energy Minister . to show such leadership so early on in the Parliament on such an important topic be really commend in my community . my community of Bournemouth , and Britain , have suffer the bad cost of live crisis in a generation , drive by the energy shock that follow Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine . this cost of living crisis have be a disaster for business . typical energy bill have nearly double in the space of a year . it have be a disaster for family finance , with million struggle with fuel poverty and many still face enormous debt . it have be a disaster for public finance because the government that we replace leave our country so unprepared . they be force to spend an eye - water £ 94 billion to support household with the cost of living — almost as much as our entire defence budget over the entire period . because energy cost underpin economic performance , inflation soar , growth sputtered and Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine send inflation in the UK to over 10 % , with a full third of that directly due to rise gas price as a direct result of our vulnerability over the last 14 year . we risk pay an even heavy price if we stay exposed to fossil fuel . we still depend on gas to generate more than a third of our electricity and to heat more than four out of five of our home . no more . we must make sure that we be energy secure , and we must be able to bring down our bill . the Office for Budget Responsibility have warn about our exposure to surge in energy price , and the potential cost to bill payer , taxpayer , consumer and business alike . the OBR now estimate that another fossil fuel price shock would cost the economy 2 % to 3 % of our gdp in the 2030 . the crisis be not over . it still cast a long shadow and we can not go on like this . we must learn the lesson , and the fast way to reduce our vulnerability be to end our dependence on volatile global fossil fuel . the cheap way to meet our energy need be to enhance our home - grow renewable and British - base nuclear . I be intrigue to hear the conservative spokesperson , the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) , say that this Government want to go slow on nuclear , so I have to ask : what nuclear project be build over the last 14 year of the Conservative Government and five Prime Ministers ? what small modular reactor actually move ahead ? what do those Prime Ministers do with the investment and the work that developer want to bring forward ? nothing . our nuclear industry have be starve of funding and attention , but no more . when the energy be produce here and consume here , Britain be protect against the volatile international market that send our bill soar . the Climate Change Committee ' s report , publish two week after the Labour Government come into office , lay bare the true reality of energy policy under the last Conservative Government . it state : " last year … the previous Government signal a slowing of pace and reverse or delay key policy " . we do not hear about that from the right hon . member for East Surrey . it also state that " announcement be give with the justification that they will make the transition more affordable for people , but with no evidence back this claim " . we do not hear anything about that . the assessment of the committee be that " only a third of the emission reduction require … be currently cover by credible plan " by the previous Government . we do not hear anything about that . that be this Labour Government ' s inheritance , for a target that have to be achieve in just five year ' time . Britain be way off track to hit our 2030 international target of a 68 % reduction in emission . that be why the Government be in a hurry , and it be why they introduce the Bill so early in this Parliament . in the five year ahead , our big challenge will be build an energy system at speed and support people through the energy transition . we need to demonstrate the benefit of the infrastructure we be build and make sure that host community benefit in return . when we ask our community to host this infrastructure , I be confident that they will say yes . they will do so on behalf of our nation . they will do so for cheap bill in the long run , for good job that pay well and to benefit our community . National Grid estimate that five time as many pylon and underground line will need to be construct by 2030 than in the past 30 year . underground cable cost six to 10 time more than overground cable . if part of our challenge be to cut bill and to reduce overall cost in a time of scarcity , we must be willing to invest in our infrastructure . the fast we go , the more secure we become . every wind turbine we erect , every solar panel we install and every piece of grid we construct will help our family and protect they from future energy shock . conversely , every wind turbine block , every solar farm reject and every piece of grid leave unbuilt will make we less secure and more exposed . the fast we go , the well our economy will work for work people by create a new generation of good job that finally pay decent wage in our industrial heartland . Labour member do not seek deindustrialisation ; we seek decarbonisation . and decarbonisation will be achieve through reindustrialisation and the creation of good green job . the fast we go , the more we will be early mover and lead the world in new technology . why should these job be create in Pennsylvania or Shanghai ? let we create they in Bournemouth and across our country . and the fast we go , the more we can tackle our climate challenge . this be no long a future threat . it be right here , right now , and we need to be able to tackle it . over the past few year , the race for job and the industry of the future have accelerate across the world . for too long , our country have be opt out of that race against our will . we have lose out , and our community have fall behind . pay have not keep pace , and job have not be create on the scale need . why do the previous Government allow other country to lead in these industry and clean job ? why do they not bet on our country and our potential ? I be delighted to see this Bill make progress . I commend Ministers for introduce it , and I look forward to see true investment in our green industry and the job of the future . I rise to support amendment 5 , table by my hon . friend the Member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) , to require a statement of strategic priority on the facilitation of community - base clean energy scheme . energy supply be the second large contributor to UK domestic greenhouse gas emission , make up 20 % of carbon emission in 2022 . community energy should play a key role in reduce this and in help the UK to meet its net zero target . community energy project have positive impact on equality , social cohesion and economic opportunity . we must therefore encourage local community to take ownership of energy production . this way , we can ensure that decision be take in the good interest of local community , and in collaboration with they , to well meet their need . the local economic benefit be clear , with community energy business in 2021 raise £ 21 . 5 million of investment for new project and spend £ 15 million of community energy income to boost local economy . community energy scheme currently produce just 0 . 5 % of UK electricity but , accord to study by the Environmental Audit Committee , this could grow twentyfold over the next 10 year . my constituency have see the benefit of community energy scheme , with Avalon Community Energy in Street and South Somerset Community Energy in Wincanton provide service to the local area . Avalon be currently focus on deliver the clean energy project as one of the project that make up the Glastonbury town deal . the £ 2 million project will develop renewable energy and carbon save for the community . it be currently estimate that the project will save around 1 , 000 tonne of carbon per year , and there will be an annual revenue surplus of over £ 100 , 000 , some of which will be use for ongoing local community benefit . South Somerset Community Energy have instal three solar panel on the roof of Stanchester academy in Stoke - sub - Hamdon . those solar panel produce around 100 , 000 kWh of energy per year , at least 70 % of which be use by the academy . the Liberal Democrats want to support the expansion of community energy scheme by require large energy supplier to work with community scheme to sell the power they generate to local customer . if the Government want to drive a clean energy revolution , community energy have to be part of that . community energy scheme have the potential to power 2 . 2 million home , to save 2 . 5 million tonne of co2 a year and to create over 30 , 000 job . the Government have sadly neglect community energy provision in the original Bill , as many of my liberal Democrat colleague have and will outline . that be a major miss opportunity . engagement and consultation with local community be crucial if GB Energy be to be a success . GB Energy should also provide community who host renewable energy infrastructure with the ability to realise community benefit from that . I have speak on this point at length over recent week , because it be crucial if we be to boost the much - need roll - out of renewable energy , particularly in area like Glastonbury and Somerton . community must be part of the process . they have a critical role to play and a voice that must be hear . through engagement , we can deliver clean energy , increase social cohesion and allow community to invest in their place . for the reason I have lay out , I will be support the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for South Cambridgeshire , and I urge the House to do the same . before I make my contribution , I apologise to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to the House for fail to mention during the Employment Rights Bill debate last week the financial donation make to I by Unite the Union of £ 7 , 500 , and by the Communication Workers Union of £ 3 , 500 . I appreciate that be a first time MP be no excuse , and I extend my sincere apology to you and to the House . on that note , I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , where it also say that I be a member of Unite the Union , which I will refer to later in my remark . there be so much to like in the GB Energy Bill : a publicly own clean energy company , the creation of skilled job , reindustrialise community and cut household bill . it be a transformative and bold idea , which be to be applaud and to be proud of . since come to this place , I have hear it say — indeed , I have say — that a nation ' s energy security be link to its national security . GB Energy should eventually help with both those thing and create thousand of skilled job . that be excellent . however , what about the job of the Grangemouth refinery worker , the same worker who be right now crucial to Scotland ' s energy security , and therefore to Scotland ' s national security ? those worker be near the end of their 45 - day consultation process , during which the focus should be on how job can be save and maintain for those worker . recent comment include , " these worker will be okay and it will all be fine because they ' ll get employment elsewhere . " if the worker have to leave , that will not help my community . stop refining do not help Scotland ' s fuel or national security . there can be no doubt that my constituency will be much weak for lose the refinery — job loss will run into the thousand . there can also be no doubt that Scotland will be weak for lose the refinery . after all , Scottish Enterprise have report that the economic contribution of the Grangemouth refinery be north of £ 400 million . mark my word , stop refining at Grangemouth and close Finnart will have monumental consequence for all of Scotland . it will not take long for the pump on forecourt all over the country to be impact , and so too the public . although this be not a problem of this Government ' s make — the previous UK Tory Government and the current SNP Scottish Government have long since turn their back on the refinery , and it be previous UK Ministers and Scottish Cabinet Secretaries who get we into this mess — make no mistake , it be our mess to clean up now . if the refinery close , job will be lose , community will be impoverished , and Scotland ' s fuel and national security will absolutely be compromise . there be economic , social and moral reason to keep Grangemouth work , but if they be not enough — and they really should be — let I say that there be also a political reason : we will be judge at the ballot box on what happen next , and not just at the 2026 Scottish Parliament election . to finish , let I say that it be not too late for the Government to do the right thing : speak with Unite the Union and listen to what it say , and engage and negotiate with Ineos to deliver a proper and true just transition , and to keep Grangemouth work until the new industrial cluster be ready at the site . there be few area of the country that be as reliant on , and therefore as vulnerable to , the energy industry as my constituency of Gordon and Buchan and wide north - east Scotland . it be because of this that I want the Government ' s energy strategy to be a success . indeed , my constituent need it to be a success . however , that be why I have severe reservation about the Bill and why I believe that we must view the great british Energy Bill not in isolation , but alongside the Government ' s wide energy strategy . I begin by consider the public money involve — the £ 8 . 3 billion of taxpayer ' money go into great British Energy . Labour have cite international example , such as France ' s EDF , as inspiration for great British Energy , but let we examine EDF ' s recent history , which read like a cautionary tale of state intervention go wrong . in 2022 , the french Government be force to fully nationalise EDF , cost € 9 . 7 billion , and in 2023 , they have to inject another € 13 billion . that huge expenditure of taxpayer money do not even solve EDF ' s problem ; the company now face debt exceed € 64 billion . therefore , be £ 8 . 3 billion of investment into great British Energy realistic ? let we move on to labour ' s wide energy strategy — perhaps there be assurance there that can help mitigate the apparent inadequate funding . let we not forget that the UK will be use oil and gas for year to come , which be not dispute . the expectation that we should get this from our domestic oil and gas supply should not be controversial , yet our energy security be be put at risk through the Government ' s action and word . job and investment in Gordon and Buchan and across north - east Scotland be be lose , and a home - grow energy transition be be make ever more difficult . it be incoherent to pump public money into the energy sector , while at the same time scare away private investment from the very company that will be vital to the energy transition , whether by announce that there will be no new North sea licence , extend and increase the windfall tax or remove investment allowance . offshore Energies UK have warn that expect tax change could see investment in UK project by oil and gas producer fall by about £ 12 billion by 2029 . last week , Reuters report that a North sea producer be look to sell stake in its North sea asset and relist on the US stock exchange . the same article quote the chief executive officer of TotalEnergies , who say that his team have halt exploration in the basin , and that : " with this political landscape , even if you find something you ' re not sure you can develop it … the situation in the UK be very problematic . " the ceo of Deltic Energy also announce plan to cut spending , tell Reuters : " the clear message from key investor be ' do not invest in the UK ' . " that be just a snapshot , but it put the Government ' s £ 8 . 3 billion into context , alongside the other decision that they be make . do the hon . member accept that my constituent and her have earn energy security for this country for the last two generation , and will do so in the North sea for another two generation ? I certainly hope that we will have the opportunity to do so , but as I be set out , the Government ' s proposal for the North sea in respect of taxation and cut down on licence do not guarantee that . as much as I and the hon . member want and need for that to be the case for our constituent , we can not guarantee it . that be why it be so important that we get the transition right . the Bill must include consideration of the impact on the public . community such as Leylodge and Kintore in my constituency face unprecedented infrastructure pressure . those community have see a 3 GW hydrogen plant , an expand substation , multiple battery facility and new pylon . what be their statutory protection ? what assurance be there in the Bill that certain community will not be over - saturate with an unsustainable amount of infrastructure ? before the election , the Labour party claim that GB Energy would reduce household bill by £ 300 . since then , minister have not repeat the promise and have not explain when or how it will be achieve . I be sure that the Labour Government would not want we to think that that promise be simply a headline - grab figure before an election , so I look forward to their clarify that commitment and voting for our amendment on that figure . let I move on to the job of today and the job of tomorrow . we hear that GB Energy will create 650 , 000 job — apparently , 69 , 000 of they will be in Scotland , which , if deliver , would be welcome — but as be the run theme in this Bill , we do not have sufficient detail to offer even a grain of certainty to comfort those whose job be on the line now . exist oil and gas and supply chain business in Aberdeen , Aberdeenshire and the north - east need a timeline so that they can plan their business and workforce . how , when and where will job be create ? what kind of job and skill will be require ? of course , we now have certainty that one job will not be come to Scotland , as we hear that the ceo will be base in Manchester . be Aberdeen a headquarters in name but not in nature ? we already know that there will be satellite site in Edinburgh and Glasgow . which other executive management job will not be base in Aberdeen ? we in north - east Scotland be not button up the back , so will the Minister confirm today that Aberdeen be still the headquarters for GB Energy — and I mean that in no other way than the meaning that the general public would understand ? the funding may not be sufficient , the overall energy strategy be incoherent and there be no clarity on the delivery of job or any mention of £ 300 energy bill saving , but surely the Bill offer certainty to the very industry that will deliver the energy transition . that bring I to the strategic statement . one thing that we know for sure be that we do not know all we need to know about what GB Energy will do . as a result , the uncertainty will continue . for community such as mine in Gordon and Buchan , and for business , supply chain and those work in the exist energy industry , that be profound . we need to know how those community will be bring with we in the transition — if it be , indeed , to be a just transition . GB Energy will not generate energy , but it can not instead generate mass redundancy across north - east Scotland . as have be mention , the Bill give the Secretary of State extensive power to dictate what be in the strategic statement , and he have give himself the huge responsibility of ensure that GB Energy deliver its aim . the work of the exist energy industry , and of community such as Gordon and Buchan , must be take into account . if it be not , the transition to clean , green energy will be less efficient , less affordable and less possible . as such , I sincerely ask that the Secretary of State prepare the strategic priority in a timely manner , take account of stakeholder in the industry , the impact community , the current job and skill , and the exist business that be the bedrock of our future energy generation . because the Bill give we all but no clarity on what be go to happen , the strategic statement — which we be all wait for — be go to be the key document in dictate whether it will or will not be a success . as I say at the start of my speech , I want it to be a success ; I want the UK to be a clean energy superpower , just as we be , and always be , an oil and gas superpower . if we get this right , that superpower status will drive the economy and job of the future . we can not allow investment to be lose , because that mean that investment in new technology will be lose . if we lose the expertise , the supply chain and the private investment because of the way this Bill be handle and how GB Energy be handle — there be no guarantee that private investment will stay in the UK just because GB Energy have be create — we will look back at this time and wish we have do thing differently . I really do not want to be in that situation , because it be my community in Gordon and Buchan and in north - east Scotland who will suffer the most . in a debate like this , it be important for member to ensure that they link their contribution to the amendment we be address . I call Polly Billington . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will speak specifically to the amendment on community energy , and I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . back in 2016 , I found UK100 , a network of local government leader who be ambitious about shift their community and their economy to net zero . it be because of that experience , work with local leader of all political persuasion across the country , that I would like to highlight the importance of a local - lead approach to reach our net zero target . GB Energy will be able to play a crucial role in do so by facilitate and encourage local authority to meet the ambitious net zero target that have be set across the country . People will be familiar with the ambition of big city such as Leeds , Liverpool , Birmingham , Bristol and Brighton — to name but a few — but town and village in rural and coastal community have also make those commitment . that be why community energy be so vital , and why it be so much a part of this Government ' s overall project and of this Bill . through the local power plan , GB Energy will be able to work with local and combined authority to deliver hundred of million of pound of funding to small and medium - scale clean energy project , help to turn those ambitious target into reality . GB Energy will also be able to work with community across the country to help deliver that local - lead approach . I have see some great real - world example of community - lead climate project . for example , Green Meadows be a community climate action project in Nottingham , fund by the National Lottery ' s climate action fund , that aim to deliver home insulation , clean energy generation for local home , planting project and workshop to give resident the tool and skill they need to install their own energy upgrade . with no disrespect to the National Lottery ' s fund , we need a more strategic approach to the local delivery of clean , home - grow , secure energy . that be the role of the GB Energy company . by work with community and local people , GB Energy will be able to play a crucial role in build consent and support for clean energy project , in order to reach our ambitious target and avoid a backlash to net zero — we have already see that backlash , particularly drive by some of the attitude of the conservative party . we have to bring people along with we and show they how they can tangibly benefit from the transition . net zero must not be something we do to people ; it must be something we do with people . if we do not work with community , we will face resistance across the country , but not because people be against tackle climate change . by involve people and show they how they can tangibly benefit , we will face less resistance and deliver much quick deployment of the energy project we need to build . Swaffham Prior , which be mention by the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) , be indeed a valuable project , but we can not leave the transition to project of that scale . to support community project at scale , we need a transformative approach that be about transform the rule of the market as much as it be about establish GB Energy . lastly , de - risk those project — both at scale and community asset — will be a vital role of GB Energy . reach net zero will be a partnership between the state , the private sector and the community . government investment to help " crowd in " that private sector and community investment will be crucial . in that context , we often talk about new and develop technology , but it be crucial not to forget exist , prove technology . integrated multi - technology project , which incorporate solar panel , battery storage and ev infrastructure , be much more complex to build and therefore , at the moment , carry a great financial risk of not become a reality . as we move towards smart , more integrate energy system , we have to keep that in mind to help those project get off the ground . I will finish with another example from my experience before I come to this place . the Trent Basin project in Nottingham be a fantastic innovation by a private company attempt to do a multi - technology project in a subsidy - free way . that have be important for the people who have end up live there , but unfortunately it have continue to be an exception , not the rule , because there have not be the regulatory regime to develop such project . GB Energy will be part of that transformation by provide the investment as well as the regulatory framework for we to deliver the community energy that will be vital for the country ' s ambition . I rise to speak to amendment 5 alongside my hon . friend . I welcome the fact that the Government be keen to increase the amount of energy produce by renewable — we have certainly wait far too long in this country for the priority and urgency need to try to shift electricity production away from fossil fuel definitively . unlike the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) , I look forward to the day when I can turn my light on know that the electricity have be produce by the sun or wind . I will acknowledge four excellent project in my constituency , which be brilliant example — or potential future example — of community energy . South Brent Community Energy Society run a community energy fund with the surplus from the operation of the wind turbine and solar panel that have be erect in the village . the fund be direct to new energy save measure and renewable energy generation project for the benefit of the community . charity , school and community group have all benefit from the surplus energy that it produce , and it be a brilliant example of what can be do in a village environment with a community energy project . Totnes Renewable Energy Society have solar panel on the roof of the civic hall that I can see from my bedroom window , and that power the electricity in my house , along with other . we also have a turbine in the river , which sadly do not have a name such as Thunder or Lightning like the one in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) , but do power the local high school . I also give a shout - out to sustainable Blackawton , which be keen to find a site for a wind turbine , and to the Bigbury Fan Club , which be set out on a long journey to try to get a turbine there . I have speak to many constituent who be excite by the prospect of create new solar or wind project on community or municipal building , or wind turbine in a village , but they be struggle . it be complicated to get planning permission , it be difficult to get funding , and it be virtually impossible to connect new project to the national grid . we must make it easy , simple and fast to connect up community energy project , not only so that we can transfer to clean energy , but so that community across the country , like the brilliant example from Eigg in Scotland , can connect to renewable energy in that way . in the early 2010 , we have the Green Investment Bank — what a shame that we lose it in 2014 , and with it 10 year of potential investment in green project . we need to catch up for the lost decade since the Liberal Democrats do so much to grow offshore wind when we be in office . we will support the Government ' s ambition to transform our energy network , but community energy must be at the heart of it and bake into the Bill , so that every village that agree to a wind turbine can benefit from it , know that they be use their own clean , locally produce energy for the benefit of their community , for low bill and for clean energy . we be call for large energy supplier to work with community scheme across the country so that we can sell power to local customer at a discount rate and provide community benefit . I would like further clarification about this interesting proposition from the Liberal Democrats about community energy group work with the big energy company . what plan do the liberal Democrats have for the concept of secure ownership at community level ? my concern about the model being suggest be that , rather than there be a community energy ownership model , it would instead be one of big company invest in small community . I thank the hon . member for the intervention . the model would involve part ownership by the community and part ownership by large energy supplier — and community energy group . and community energy group — but , yes , I will hand over to my hon . friend , if I be allow to do so . will my hon . friend give way ? yes , please . I think I will intervene , if that be okay with you , Madam Deputy Speaker . we welcome that question from the hon . member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) . in fact , there be multiple ownership model , so it be quite right to get clarification . some of these will need investment from other company , but other will — order . please be seat . we have a speech mid - flow . be that correct ? indicate assent . then please continue . if you wish to respond to that intervention , you may do so , and I will go to another speaker afterwards . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . to guarantee that local community receive a fair share of the wealth generate from community energy project , it be crucial that these be at the heart of the Bill , so I would welcome the Government ' s support for amendment 5 . I welcome the opportunity to speak at the Report stage of the great british Energy Bill . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Members for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) and for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , who give such eloquent and powerful maiden speech early in the debate . it be also a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) , who show such leadership on this issue prior to her be elect to this House . as well as comment on the overall thrust of the Bill , I want to comment on new clause 1 and amendment 6 , 8 and 5 . it be somewhat surprising and , indeed , interesting to hear conservative member call for a review of the effective delivery of energy policy , for legislation to reduce energy bill by £ 300 and for the creation of job as a result , not least because a review of energy policy and the trajectory of bill and job create under the previous Government would reveal some stark fact . every family and business in Britain pay the price of 14 year of conservative failure through rocket energy bill . indeed , Britain face a bad cost of live crisis than other country , because the Tories leave we expose to international fossil fuel market control by dictator such as Putin . when I say in my intervention on the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) , who have since vacate the Opposition Front Bench , that we be reliant on Putin , she respond that I do not understand energy market . I be afraid that just show that she do not understand energy market , because the truth be that we be at the mercy of international market of which Russia be a part . the previous Government do absolutely nothing to reduce our reliance on volatile fossil fuel , and as a result of their failure to invest in clean energy , they leave we with a legacy of high energy bill , energy insecurity and a lack of clean energy job . with our plan for great British Energy and clean power by 2030 , the new Labour Government be determined to change that . I be somewhat surprised by amendment 8 , which call for legislate the creation of 650 , 000 job , not least because we create these job not through legislation but by have a meaningful industrial strategy , which be lack under the previous Government . figure from the Institute for Public Policy Research — which , I must admit , be my former employer — show that around 4 % of our gdp be make up of green good and service compare with the european average of 6 % . if we have have an industrial strategy and create job from offshore wind at the same rate as Denmark do from its offshore sector , we could have green good and service make up 11 . 5 % of the economy and we could have create 100 , 000 more job . so although I admire the chutzpah of Opposition Members call for price reduction , and the creation of 650 , 000 job , through legislation , I welcome instead our approach of create a publicly own energy generation company — the first in 75 year . all we be ask through our amendment be for the Government to put on the face of the Bill what they promise the british people , in their manifesto and many election campaign commitment , that great British Energy would achieve . why will the hon . Gentleman not challenge his minister to put on the face of this Bill the very thing on which he stand for election , such as the creation of 650 , 000 job and the reduction of bill by £ 300 ? I have to say that , whoever be the winner of the conservative party leadership contest , I be not sure legislate for the creation of 650 , 000 job be the direction in which they will be head . I do not believe we can legislate our way to job creation ; I believe that be do by introduce an industrial strategy , something that be so lacking in the last 14 year . do the hon . member appreciate that the issue be not legislate for job but the lack of accountability in the Bill ? we have set out our industrial strategy , along with this Bill on GB Energy , and a few week ago , with the investment summit , the investment that will be come in . I be confident that the good way of create job be through the industrial strategy and the creation of GB Energy . yes , we make those commitment and I be confident that by 2030 we will have meet our clean power target , reduce bill and create job and revive the industry across the country . if the hon . Gentleman be so confident in the policy of his Front Bench , will he take this moment to use the word that be use before the election by the Energy Secretary ? he can repeat after I if it make it easy : " we will cut bill by £ 300 . " I will take absolutely no lecture from Conservative Members about the need to reduce energy bill after they soar under the previous Government . great British Energy ' s core focus will be to drive clean energy deployment to create job , boost energy independence and ensure british taxpayer , bill payer and community reap the benefit of clean , secure , home - grow energy . I be also surprised by the Conservatives ' opposition to a publicly own clean energy company , not least because 50 % of our offshore wind capacity be already publicly own but by foreign state . I be surprised that conservative Members be so happy with that scenario . on amendment 5 , I welcome the Liberal Democrats ’ support for community energy , but as my hon . friend the Member for East Thanet comment , it be in the found statement . Labour Members be absolutely committed to community energy . it do not need to be on the face of the Bill , but it be important that it be part of the found statement of GB Energy . opposition Members can be reassure that we will champion community energy . in Basingstoke , we have Basingstoke Energy Services Co - op , which be a wonderful champion for this issue . I look forward to see what GB Energy will deliver for such community organisation . overall , this Bill be part of the rapid action that the Labour Government have take to deliver on our clean power mission , lift the nine - year onshore wind ban , secure a record - break 131 new renewable project — enough to power 11 million home — consent more solar project than ever before , set up mission control , and put international climate leadership back at the heart of Government . I commend the Secretary of State for his leadership on this Bill and this issue , and I commend the Energy Minister for his leadership , and I commend the entire team . I look forward to vote for the Bill later tonight . I rise to speak in support of amendment 1 , in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , and amendment 5 , table by the Liberal Democrats . I be supportive of the Bill in the abstract , and I be certainly supportive of its headline ambition , like many member , but I trust that the Minister be hear what the House be say today about the substantive lack of information and detail , and the troubling direction of travel , which will place significant executive authority in the hand of the Secretary of State in discharge GB Energy ' s responsibility . it be a pity , too , that the attrition to the original budget of £ 28 billion have nearly quarter it to £ 8 billion . I hope that the job associate with this imply investment do not go the same way as the budget , before they get the chance to take root in the north - east of Scotland and support my constituent and many other in that part of the country . it be a shame that the only person appoint to GB Energy be not work in Scotland at all . I be not sure that be on the script go into the election , but it seem to be what have happen afterwards . amendment 1 from the SNP ask the Labour Government to deliver upon what they say they would do ahead of the election . that do not strike I as particularly unreasonable . I do not think our amendment will be select for separate decision , so I think we will be force to vote with amendment 6 in the name of the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) , which ask for basically the same thing . [ interruption . ] the Minister be get very excited . of course , we would not have have to table an amendment if the Labour party have just put the measure in the Bill . it be in the leaflet , so I do not know why it be not in the Bill . it be also no long £ 300 that we need to see reduce from hard - press work people ' s bill . since Labour make that claim , bill have go up by £ 149 , so the Government will need to get £ 449 off people ' s bill before they can get back to where they start , certainly in term of they have any credibility . the Liberal Democrats have a well - word and noble ambition on community energy , and the SNP would have be pleased to support it . one of the thing miss from GB Energy be a statutory responsibility to develop and accelerate community energy at pace in a measured fashion . refer back to my opening remark , I be supportive of the Bill ' s outline ambition , but I be worried about the lack of detail . the more we discuss and debate the Bill , the more I be concerned that GB Energy will end up do lot of thing that nobody particularly need it to do , because they be all do by a department within the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero . what we do not have be what people want GB Energy to do . we do want it to generate energy independently and to have an effect on the energy market in the United Kingdom . we do want it to sell energy to the retail market . we do want it to buy community energy from community energy generator and to introduce it into the market . and we do want it to enable community energy and to low bill . all the thing that the hon . Gentleman mention be exactly what GB energy will do . there be literally no reason why he can not go through the Lobby with Labour Members this evening , because the great british Energy Bill will do all the thing he have ask for it to do . it be nothing to do with suck up the energy of the civil servant do policy ; that be a completely different role , and they will continue their work . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention , but I politely disagree . no amount of emphasis on her part will change the detail in the Bill , and that be what mps be concern about . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I be go to make progress . the Minister have advise we that GB Energy will not seek to displace foreign - own energy company but will instead crowd in investment . in reference to the previously mention £ 300 bill reduction , he have also say that GB Energy will play a role in lower bill but that that will not happen immediately . when he sum up , perhaps he can tell we when that will be , because it be not unreasonable for people to hear that ambition and to want to see a timeline attach to it . I also mention the attrition in GB Energy ' s funding . give its now drastically reduce funding , will the Minister advise we what challenge he see GB Energy face ? when the Secretary of State be in opposition , he often make big play of the fact that there be a nationalise energy industry in the United Kingdom but that none of it be own by the United Kingdom — it be all foreign . it seem a little odd that there be not the ambition , now that he be actually in power , to deliver that ownership . could the hon . member update the House on the progress of the SNP Government ' s commitment in 2017 to create a publicly own energy company by 2021 ? he can indeed . the hon . Member may think he be be terribly smart — he be a self - profess expert in the energy market — but he will know how difficult it be for someone to penetrate the UK energy market unless they happen to be a large plc or a multinational . when the Scottish Government take forward that noble ambition , they find precisely the same barrier to entry as community energy company and trust . if the hon . Member want to get excited about that situation , I suggest he take it up with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero . will the hon . Gentleman explain why the SNP Government have leave community benefit at the same £ 5 , 000 level it be in 2014 , even though price have go through the roof ? their advisory information could have be change . they have be press on the issue many time because it have severely damage the income of rural community . I be not sure what the hon . Gentleman be drive at , but if he want to get in touch with I after the debate , I will be happy to discuss it far . order . we be debate the amendment to the Bill , not SNP policy . well , indeed . will the Minister advise we whether we be talk about GB electricity or GB energy ? I would be keen to know what investment and ambition this supposedly state - own company — I have to grit my tooth when I say that , because it be actually little more than a trading fund — will be involve in ? will it be involve in carbon capture , utilisation and storage ? will it be involve in attenuate hydro ? will it be involve in pump storage , geothermal or hydrogen ? what be the limit of GB Energy ? that be not in the Bill , and we do not understand what it will deliver . as other hon . member have ask , what be the Government ' s ambition on GB Energy when it come to Grangemouth ? be it just limit to the common or garden production of electricity ? I will not vote with the Government on the Bill . I do not want to condemn it as an election prop that be now desperately look for some sort of function — I hope it amount to more than that — but I will vote for the amendment , and so will my colleague , to try to make some sense of the Bill . the Bill ' s job be to set up a new and unique public energy company , to work within the clear object set out in clause 3 ( 2 ) — not simply as an investment bank , but as part of a develop strategy for renewable across the UK . Cornwall , where I be from , be set to benefit hugely from the investment from GB Energy into unblock float offshore wind in the Celtic sea , which will create job . Cornwall be post - industrial a long time ago , and we need the kind of investment that GB Energy can bring . we also have a strong local area energy plan , which be an integral part of Cornwall ' s renewable energy offer . it have co - operative , community and local authority energy as part of that plan , and as a Co - operative MP I support the local power plan that the Government be propose , which will be part of GB Energy . we could have partnership for deep geothermal energy on council land , which would bring potential for partnership with local authority and other . in Cornwall we have have numerous community energy scheme , such as the one in Ladock at the end of last Labour Government , before the Conservatives cut the scheme and the feed - in tariff . we could invest in infrastructure with GB Energy , in partnership with the Crown Estate , for the cable , the grid and , potentially , even the port . the Bill offer a huge opportunity . there be so much that GB Energy can do in future as part of a develop strategy to secure clean energy and reduce greenhouse gas emission , as it say in the Bill . as its ambition and horizon expand , in partnership with the Crown Estate and other , so too must its object and its strategy be able to expand . I rise to support amendment 6 and 8 . the Bill be promise in order to do a number of thing . first , it be to reduce the cost of energy to consumer — during the election , the Government give a specific promise that the reduction this year would be £ 300 per household . as other have say , and as the Government have accept , that will not be deliver . that be not a great start . secondly , it be go to deliver a certain number of job . thirdly , it be go to deliver sustainable and clean energy , and energy security . the Government could argue that these thing be in the Bill ' s strategic objective and priority , but they be not . I do not believe that any of those thing can be achieve , give the net zero strategy that we be pursue . let we take the first claim : that cost for consumer would come down . we know that they will not come down this year , and give what need to be do to deliver the strategy , huge cost will be impose on consumer . we will turn our back on a lot of the hard plan we already have in place , even though they be not defunct . we be go to build new power source . whether they be build by the state or by power company , capital expenditure will be involve , and there will be a return on that capital . who will give the return on that capital to the company ? it will be the consumer . we be go to build many of these power source away from where people live , because the open area for wind or solar be not beside centre of population . we already know that put in a totally new network will require a huge expenditure of billion — indeed , some have mention it here today . that will be costly and controversial . I have listen to Members today say , " oh , to ensure the light be turn on and there be a supply of energy , my constituent will be quite happy to have huge pylon erect in their back garden or down beside their house . " of course they win ' t ; it will be controversial . that be why the Government will have to change the planning system , too . who be go to pay for the infrastructure ? it will be pay for by consumer . and then , of course , because the wind do not always blow and the sun do not always shine , we will have to keep fossil fuel station go . only two week ago , the head of the grid network indicate that there would need to be " a significant amount " of power plant in reserve for the cold , dull , windless week of winter , but that they would run for only limited period . that be the problem . they will only run for limited period , but they will need to be maintain . they will have to be turn on to supply electricity for those short period , at about 20 time the cost of run they continuously . to do away with fossil fuel production , we will keep those plant and there will therefore be additional cost . we have to keep they for when the wind do not blow hard enough , and we will have to pay out when the wind blow too hard . the reason cost be not mention in the Bill be that the Government know — this might be a price people be prepared to pay , but at least be honest with they — that additional cost be involve in decarbonise the electricity system . those cost will be pay for by the people who consume electricity — we can not run away from that . if the argument be that we be so concerned about the impact of the fossil fuel we burn and that this be a Government priority — despite India , China and everybody else happily burn fossil fuel and increase emission , and despite the fact that we account for only 3 % of the world ' s emission — then spell it out to ordinary consumer that there will be a price for they to pay . there will be a cost . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that this debate would be much easy if the Committee on Climate Change have produce a year - by - year estimate of the cost of get to net zero by 2050 ? the previous Government always promise to do a proper impact assessment on cost , but they never do . I believe that this government should do that , so we can have an objective and evidence - base debate . do he agree ? I do agree . there have be variation on the cost , from £ 3 trillion to £ 10 trillion by 2050 . those Monopoly money figure mean nothing to people . set out the cost on a year - to - year basis , where people understand and member who vote in this House understand what they be put in front of their constituent by way of bill , would at least be honest . it would also mean there could be a proper debate . I support amendment 6 , which include the price commitment . the second commitment be on job . we be tell there will be 650 , 000 job . I agree with the hon . member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) who say that we can not legislate for job . that be quite right . but if a promise be make about the job implication of a policy , there should be no fear of stick it in the Bill . not that the Government be go to produce those job ; the company be go to produce they . we could then measure that . if the Government can not legislate for job , they should not promise that they be go to create 650 , 000 job , especially at a time when we know that job be be lose as a result of commitment relate to North sea oil and energy - efficient industry . the emission trading scheme mean that there be little or no investment in Grangemouth , for instance , and the place be go to close . successive government have make commitment on job , but can the right hon . Gentleman name any Government who have legislate for a job target ? can he specify a single Bill that have contain such a measure ? as I have just say , it can not be do . what I have say be that a government should not make a promise if they believe that when the Bill in question be scrutinise , that promise will not be fulfil — especially here , when it be know that the policy will cost job , and union have already make that point . I have some sympathy with the amendment table by the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) in respect of the impact on nature . I come from one of the most beautiful part of the United Kingdom — the Antrim coast be famous for tourism — and I be already see the impact of net zero policy on the landscape and the flora and fauna of the Antrim plateau . when I look out of my window in the morning , there be the wind farm that have be erect on top of the plateau , which involve strip off 3 metre of peat and destroy a bird habitat ; every year these windmill chew up bird and bat . I have already mention the admission that 17 million tree have be cut down in scottish forest , and the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion be unfortunate to mention the Sperrins , another beautiful part of Northern Ireland of which I have some knowledge and which have be totally despoiled by hundred of windmill . let we not pretend , then , that the policy of renewable be a green , clean policy , because it be not . let we be honest : any energy production will require the extraction of fuel and material from the earth , and that in itself will be destructive , so let we not describe it as nature - friendly or green . let we just accept that what we need if we be to bring about economic growth and reduce the cost of live for our constituent be the cheap , most available fuel that we can have . that will drive economic growth and decrease the cost of living , and that be the kind of energy policy that the Government ought to be follow . the Conservatives be generally adamant that there very be few Labour Members with any business experience , so have spend more than 30 year in business — latterly in electric vehicle charge infrastructure — I be reassure to learn while listen to the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) that there be at least one conservative who be not a renewable - energy Luddite , and I be glad to see he back in his place . I wish that the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) would spend a bit of time understand a little more about geothermal energy , which do not require the wind to blow or the sun to shine . I be honour to be part of the Committee consider the great british Energy Bill , a core plank of this Government ' s policy programme whose benefit will be feel in every corner of the UK , include my own constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , for their diligent work on and defence of this transformational Bill . let I also put on record my thank not just to my right hon . and hon . friend who sit on the Committee , but to other member on both side of the House who contribute to it . I will refer to the amendment . in Committee we hear from expert and stakeholder , and we extensively debate the issue , from oversight to community benefit . opposition Members who be on the Committee know that , because they be there . as I say when I make my maiden speech on Second Reading , my focus will be on use the opportunity of this Bill to unleash the cornish celtic tiger . renewable energy — onshore wind , offshore wind , geothermal , tidal and solar — and critical mineral such as tin , lithium , tungsten and manganese be fundamental for our transition away from fossil fuel . there be no silver bullet ; we need a mix of renewable energy , which will form part of our policy go forward . that be what GB Energy will give we the opportunity to do . there be few area of the UK where there be a great distillation of renewable energy and critical mineral opportunity than in Cornwall . I refer to the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) about human right and the opportunity to produce domestically an awful lot of the energy and the critical mineral that we currently import from place such as China , Indonesia , Australia and South America . as a result , there be extremely high expectation in Cornwall for local job in industry that support community initiative and domestic supply chain in one of the most deprived area of northern Europe . give the distillation of raw material and natural resource in Cornwall , the fact that the new Centre for Critical Minerals , which will accelerate the move towards a green economy , open very recently in Cornwall , and the fact that Exeter University , which have a campus in Penryn , have the large number of top - 100 climate scientist in the world , it will not come as a surprise to the Minister that I ask he to consider open a satellite office for great British Energy in Cornwall . they may not want it in Aberdeen , but we want it in Cornwall . I support the Bill as it be . we discuss the amendment in Committee , and I look forward to the opportunity that this Bill will bring to the people of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle . rise — order . to ensure that I can call everybody in the time remain , Back - Bench speech will be limit to three minute , after a maiden speech by Iqbal Mohamed . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to make my maiden speech today . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) and for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) on their excellent maiden speech . they have set a high bar that I will struggle to match . I thank the people of Dewsbury and Batley for the trust they have place in I . I be honour and humble to be their representative and a voice for all resident . Dewsbury and Batley be a newly form constituency , so I thank my two predecessor . first , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for her service as the MP for Batley and Spen . she help secure funding for the town centre , and become an MBE for help to promote social cohesion and tackle loneliness . I wish she well as the new Member for Spen Valley . secondly , I thank Mark Eastwood for his service as the MP for Dewsbury . he be a man of great perseverance and help secure over £ 40 million in funding for the town . I be honour to follow Mark as the second locally bear and breed MP for Dewsbury . I stand here as the eld of six child bear to Gujarati indian immigrant who come here in the ' 60 . I be an immensely proud , passionate and no - nonsense British Indian Muslim Yorkshireman who grow up on a council estate in Dewsbury Moor on free school meal and uniform . my late father , Gulam Ahmed , and my mother , Noorjhan Fatima , give we love , put food in our belly and teach we proper british and islamic value , such as honesty , integrity , hard work , friendship , compassion and want the good for other . my political journey start when I be around nine or 10 year old . I remember stand in front of my parent ' wardrobe mirror and ask God to make I one of two thing when I grow up . I ask to be either a " Blue Peter " presenter , because a job that pay you to travel the world , do amazing activity and be on tv be surely the good gig in town , or — and I do not know why at the time — I ask God to make I a parliamentarian . I remember look down at the colour of my skin and think that that might be difficult , but here I be today in the most diverse Parliament in history , where I look forward to break down barrier , make friend , do good and prevent harm . if a " Blue Peter " producer be watch , however , I be still available for a guest appearance or a Christmas special . I would like to put on record my heartfelt thank to my amazing wife , Asma , who have be a pillar of support to I and my whole family for over 30 year . I also thank my teacher , my wide family , my campaign team and everyone who have help I get to where I be today . one of the meaning of the name Dewsbury be " God ' s town " , which be reflect today in its diverse community live in harmony and in the many place of worship . it be home to the famous Dewsbury market , which be establish in the 14th century and be my first place of employment , aged 14 , on a wage of £ 4 a day . Dewsbury and Batley become a global textile centre during the industrial revolution and a world leader in recycle wool textile know as shoddy and mungo . today , despite the lack of support , my constituency be a leader in bed and furniture manufacturing , and it compete with Bradford for the good curry in the UK . it be also home to the Dewsbury Rams and Batley Bulldogs rugby club . Dewsbury and Batley have too many worthy son and daughter to mention , include Nobel laureate . I will , however , pay tribute to the late Jo Cox MP , who be fondly remember and dearly miss to this day . I stand today in the mother of Parliaments , but it be a sad indictment of our democracy that most people in our country be dissatisfied with the mainstream party and their policy , politic and behaviour . many feel trample on , ignore , powerless and disenfranchised , and I be repeatedly tell that politician be all the same and just in it for themselves . People have lose hope and trust in politic and politician , and it be our duty in this House to restore their faith by put the interest of the people who elect we above ourselves , our career , party donor , corporation and malign influence . after 15 week as an MP , it be unclear to I how the Whip system be democratic or in what way expensive gift can help mps well represent their constituent . I hope to support the Modernisation and Standards Committees and to work in this place to help restore the trust of the people we represent . some have seek to present my election and that of other independent as sinister or a threat to democracy . in fact , I be select from 12 applicant to stand as the sole independent candidate in an open , rigorous and democratic process . my election have nothing to do with sectarian politic or caricature about muslim voter be manipulate by their spiritual leader . it have everything to do with the state of our country and the raw anger over Tory complicity in , and labour ' s refusal to call out , the unfold genocide in Palestine . the attack on 7 October be appal , and I reiterate the call for an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostage on both side and unfettered access to humanitarian aid . when the Prime Minister endorse the right of the israeli Government to cut off water and electricity to the people of Gaza , people in Dewsbury and Batley say , " no , not in our name . " what have happen in Gaza since be beyond word . early this month , the UN report that Israel have commit war crime and the crime against humanity of extermination in Gaza , add to the International Court of Justice ' s conclusion in January that Israel ' s action may plausibly amount to genocide . Most british people want an immediate ceasefire and an end to the UK ' s complicity . they be sick and tired of the double standard , with politician line up to condemn and sanction russian aggression in Ukraine yet defend the most heinous crime of Israel . our compassion for palestinian life be not inversely proportional to our compassion for israeli life , or vice versa . all life be equal , and our compassion must also be equal . for the Prime Minister to call for a ceasefire while arm and defend Israel be meaningless and do nothing to bring an end to the killing . and for the Foreign Secretary yesterday to deny that genocide be even take place , simply because the Israelis have not yet kill enough Palestinians , be shameful and wilfully misrepresent what genocide be . legal expert be warn that international law and the rule - base order be collapse , along with the rest of Gaza . on Sunday , I meet Amin , a british - palestinian constituent from Gaza . he tell I that his 93 - year - old father and whole extended family have be displace , and that nothing remain of their home or life in Gaza . on behalf of Amin , his family and all the palestinian people , I implore the UK Government to take a moral and legal lead and to do everything in their power to uphold the UK ' s obligation to halt the genocide and end the 76 year of unlawful occupation . the ongoing genocide be a huge factor in my election , but it be not the only factor . voter in Dewsbury and Batley have be hit hard by 14 year of Tory austerity and decade of local government failure that have decimate our public service . in one of my ward , three in five child be now live in poverty . across Kirklees , the most deprived people live , on average , eight year less than the least deprived . it simply defy belief that among the first action of this Labour Government be to pick the pocket of pensioner by take away their winter fuel allowance and to refuse to lift the two - child benefit cap . the fact be that a huge number of our fellow citizen be in real financial distress every day of every week , and the Government need to take immediate action to help they . I be concern about the impact of yet more austerity on community cohesion . as a british Muslim and person of colour , I be alarmed when I hear one of the candidate in the Tory leadership contest say that 1 million migrant should be deport and that Muslims should be arrest for say , " Allahu Akbar , " which just mean , " God be the great , " because I know who will be the real beneficiary of those comment . we have see where this kind of rhetoric lead — riot on our street , asylum shelter attack , religious institution besiege by mob , family and community terrorise . this place must set the example for the people of Britain to follow . we must root out racism and bigotry , and we must reject any narrative that seek to blame asylum seeker and immigrant community for the decade of austerity that have erode the fabric of once secure community . I believe that politic , when do correctly , be one of the high form of public service and a force for good for the many , not only the few . in my time in Parliament , I promise not to deliberately cause any harm to my fellow Members , our nation , the people of our country or the wide world . I be committed to work with all member and all community to create a more just and equal society , to end poverty and tackle inequality , to speak for those who feel forget and who have be leave behind , and to try to harness their grievance as a force for good . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . energy be at the heart of our economy . it power our home , our school , our workplace and even our democracy . most importantly , it be at the heart of our community . this Bill must ensure that it bring those community and community energy project with it , which be why I be speak wholeheartedly in support of amendment 5 . local to Harpenden and Berkhamsted be the Grand Union Community Energy benefit society , which run several community energy fund scheme , include solar canopy , and be investigate heating from aquifer . as a not - for - profit , it aim to use its proceed to help householder , especially the most vulnerable , to reduce their energy bill and energy use . it also support other community organisation that do not have a regular income . in Berkhamsted , it have work with Sunnyside Rural Trust to review the energy strategy of its Northchurch site . I have speak to passionate member , such as Sarah , Paul and John , about why they be make it work and the difficulty they face . if we be to reach net zero , community energy be need to fill a gap between individual , business and council . it be John who remind I that if community energy be support , there be a significant resource of people ready and wait to put their voluntary effort into get scheme off the ground . by their very nature , they be embed in their community , and we must bring our community with we if we be to make the change that be need . however , our community energy project need support . community energy project face insurmountable cost when try to sell the power they generate to local consumer . Grand Union Community Energy be nervous about take on the delivery of project , as there be uncertainty about how electricity price may change in the future . community energy need stability too . as it stand , community energy scheme find it nigh impossible to sell their power directly to local consumer , which leave pricing and some project financially unviable without further support . previously , feed - in tariff help to provide pricing stability , but when that scheme end in 2019 , many planned community project be scrap and the number of new project slow significantly . current access to funding have be vague , erratic and uncertain , especially since the rural community energy scheme end , and I know many people have not bother to apply for funding because they find it so difficult . we must unlock the potential of our community energy project , and that be why I support amendment 5 . there be many ownership model . the Liberal Democrats be call for large energy supplier , when they work with community energy project , to work with they to sell the power they generate to local customer at a discount rate and provide community benefit . overall , we must ensure that these project be financially viable and support with technical , commercial and legal advice , and we must seize this opportunity to bring our community with we . I welcome that the Government be take renewable energy investment seriously and create a mechanism for it . in common with many Liberal Democrat Members , I will focus on amendment 5 , which would specifically require Great British Energy to support community energy project as part of its strategic priority . Labour Front Benchers have support community energy for a long time , and cross - party support be clearly display on Second Reading , as it be by the large number of Members ’ signature on amendment 5 . the same be true of my amendment 2 , which be sadly defeat in Committee . to their credit , the previous Government introduce the community energy fund , which make a difference , but more need to be do to support community energy . despite strong cross - party support for community energy , the great british Energy Bill make no mention of it . Liberal Democrat Members believe that it should be on the face of the Bill . in Committee , the Minister say that include community energy in the Bill be not appropriate . I understand that GB Energy be not preclude from support community energy by the Bill , just as I understand the Government ' s argument that if the new company be to be able to work flexibly , it should not be hamper by too many provision in the Bill . however , our concern remain that unless something concrete be include in the Bill , future Ministers , government or chief executive of great British Energy may decide not to support community energy and the full benefit of local energy may not be realise . amendment 5 would strengthen the Bill in line with the clear parliamentary consensus in support of growth in this highly promising clean energy sector . the community energy sector have see minimal growth in recent year . it have suffer from damaging policy , such as the end of the feed - in tariff that help fuel growth . since 2010 , there have be no growth in the sector . regulatory change be require to ensure that community receive the benefit they deserve for host clean energy infrastructure . all of these argument be well understand and the benefit of community energy have be well research . the new Government have say time and again that they support community energy and that it be a shared aim . I welcome the conversation and the open debate on this issue . I understand that the Government take issue with put the term " priority " on the face of the Bill . the passage of the Bill have not reach its final stage , and there be room for further debate . I very much hope that the Government recognise how strongly colleague across the House feel about include specific support for community energy , and that such an inclusion will create cross - party support for the Bill as a whole . first , let I congratulate the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) on his passionate maiden speech . I rise to speak to amendment 11 and 12 , table in my name , which seek to provide certainty to particular energy sector that they will be prioritise by GB Energy . I must declare an interest as an officer of the marine energy all - party parliamentary group , of which the UK Marine Energy Council be the secretariat . the commission have recommend that the Government commit £ 250 million , which be 3 % of the great British Energy budget of £ 8 . 3 billion , to accelerate deployment of , and embed UK content in , marine energy project . this be in addition to a clear gigawatt deployment target by the Government , which would help the sector to flourish . in my constituency of Ynys M ô n , we have the community - own marine energy project , Morlais . such a measure could improve the sector and give it the certainty that it need to use the natural resource around our country . let I turn now to amendment 12 . I be incredibly disappointed to see that the Bill make no mention of nuclear energy . my amendment would require Great British Energy to work with great british Nuclear on the development of new project in the UK , such as the Wylfa site on Ynys M ô n . at present , it be unclear how GB Energy and GB Nuclear will interact with each other . we can not afford a further delay in develop new nuclear project , and amendment 12 would provide much - need clarity on the Government ' s plan . finally , I turn to my last set of amendment relate to Wales . we need to ensure that there be meaningful benefit from energy project in Wales , and this should include increase the ownership of project . amendment 13 be base on the recommendation of the National Infra - structure Commission for Wales that policy should require renewable energy development to offer up element of community ownership . this be to address the current imbalance where company and community from elsewhere in the UK benefit from Welsh project at a cost to the local community . the commission have suggest that 20 % of each project should be offer up , split equally between both local community and the Wales - base organisation . in my constituency , there be a proposal for a vast 360 MW solar farm , with only 1 . 5 % of the gigawatt produce be offer to the local community . under amendment 13 , at least 36 MW would have to be offer for community ownership , a vast improvement give the economic damage that such a vast industrial site will have on the island . to complement this amendment , I be also pleased to be support amendment 5 , which would ensure that develop community energy be a priority of GB Energy . my colleague , the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , table an amendment at Committee stage of the Bill that would have ensure that the revenue generate from all project base in Scotland would be retain in Scotland . that be a fair principle , which should also be extend to Wales , and be the reason why I have table amendment 14 . Wales be a net exporter of energy , yet we have some of the high energy bill in the UK . finally , amendment 15 would require express consent — I call Nick Timothy . I shall speak briefly about amendment 6 table by my right hon . friend the Member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) . in this debate , we have hear much from Government member about clean and cheap energy , not much of which have be connect to reality . this have be expose by Labour ' s campaign before the election , promise £ 300 off bill , only to drop that commitment as soon as the party enter government . that disconnect , as I have say , have be present throughout the debate . blind faith in renewable technology without the acceptance of the intermittency challenge and cost of wind and solar will lead to less security of supply and high cost for industry and household . we can not allow policy to run fast than technology without risk a crisis in the grid and , therefore , in our economy . we need baseload power , which mean nuclear — where the Secretary of State be go slow — and oil and gas , where the Secretary of State be refuse new licence . to pursue the ideological objective of the Secretary of State , we see giant solar farm force on community like mine , against expert advice by examine authority , contrary to the quasi - judicial responsibility of the Secretary of State and dependent on solar panel make by slave in Xinjiang . I say enough of the nonsense about fossil fuel and the dependence on dictator . tomorrow the Chancellor of the Exchequer will announce her intention to borrow to invest . we know that the borrowing will not just be for investment , but what investment there be will be dominate by energy scheme that will cost more to do less . we do have an underinvested economy , but net zero zealotry will make the problem bad , not well . I call the Minister . I thank all member who have make contribution to the debate , and I be grateful for all the point raise in Committee . I thank the witness who give their time to the Committee , as well as the Clerks , House staff and civil servant , who put so much work into legislation such as this . I apologise to the House in advance both for the speed of my speaking and the speed with which I will have to go through the amendment — there be not a huge amount of time leave . first , I want to highlight the three maiden speech that we have hear today . my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) give an incredibly emotional speech , and speak passionately about the importance of the state have an impact on people ' s life . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) for tell we , apart from anything else , how to pronounce his constituency , and to the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) , who I be sure will at least receive a Blue Peter badge in the post for his speech . great British Energy be at the heart of our clean power mission , and the Bill provide the statutory basis for it , enable the Government to deliver on the ambition that we set out during the election and that the country vote for so resoundingly just a few month ago . let I turn to the amendment . new clause 1 , in the name of the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) , would create additional reporting mechanism for great British Energy . I agree with she that great British Energy should be accountable , transparent and open in all its dealing and in how it deliver a return on investment . that be why we have make provision in the Bill to ensure that regular update be give in the form of annual report and account , which will be lay before Parliament for all member to review . of course , as a company , it will undergo external audit in the usual manner . as I outline in Committee , my view remain that add additional requirement at such frequent interval be disproportionate and will stop the company from get on with deliver its mission . on amendment 6 and 7 in the name of the right hon . member for East Surrey , and amendment 1 in the name of the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , every family and business in this country have pay the price for our dependence on fossil fuel during the cost of living crisis . speed up the roll - out of clean energy be the only way to get our country off the rollercoaster of volatile international gas market and to protect family from future energy shock . that be the argument that the conservative party use to support but that it seem increasingly to distance itself from , as it have with so many principled position . will the Minister give way ? I do not have time , I be afraid . we be unapologetic that great British Energy be a long - term project for this country , as part of a sustainable , long - term plan to protect bill payer for good . I stand by that commitment today . however , I also say , as we have say about so much of the mess that we have to clean up , that we can not simply flick a switch and turn everything around , which be why these amendment be inappropriate . conservative Members would never have make such amendment to a Bill when they be in government . let I turn to the amendment on job and industrial strategy . the Government be clear that clean energy be the economic and industrial opportunity of our time . around the world , a race for job and industry of the future be speed up , but for too long Britain have opt out and lose out . great British Energy be at the heart of our plan to change that . it will help to rebuild the UK ' s industrial heartland through its investment across every part of the UK , and locate great British Energy ' s headquarters in Aberdeen will tap into the high - quality talent pool of Aberdeen and Scotland as a whole . we will use every tool at our disposal to win job for Britain . we have establish the office for clean energy job , and be focus on develop the skill of the future , so that we have a workforce that can deliver what we need in future . crucially , it be why the Government be , as many hon . member have say , commit to a proper industrial strategy . the amendment table by the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) relate to the timeline for establish Great British Energy , to energy efficiency and to community energy . although I welcome and , frankly , share the hon . member ' s eagerness to get great british Energy up and run as quickly as possible , we will not be support amendment 3 . the Government have already show themselves to be commit to set up great british Energy as quickly as possible , and there will be no further delay in do so . indeed , of all the thing that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State could be accuse of , not move quickly be not one of they . will the Minister give way ? I do not have time — I have a minute in which to finish . I hope the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire will recognise that there be really no need to put an amendment such as this one on the face of the Bill . turn to her amendment on the topic of community energy , she will know , however , that I be passionate about community energy , as be the Government . it will form an integral part of great British Energy ' s local power plan , which will put community at the heart of the energy transition , give they a stake in the shift to net zero . as a member of not just the Labour party but the Co - operative party , that be at the heart of my politic and that of many of my hon . friend . we have be advocate for community energy for decade — this be not a new idea for we — and empower community be critical . the hon . Lady and I share that passion and a commitment to community energy . I can assure the House that the Department be look to take a cross - government approach — not just through great British Energy but , crucially , on a number of the point that have be make — to ensure that community energy project can be deliver , with all the change to planning and governance that be require to make that happen . I always want to work with member across this House , and have do so throughout the passage of the Bill . we continue to engage with the Liberal Democrats and other interested party on this important issue , explore option to ensure the Bill have the effect they be seek . I look forward to further such discussion in the week and month ahead . I hope all who have table or speak to amendment today will feel reassure by what I have outline — albeit considerably more briefly than I be expect — and will perhaps feel able to withdraw , or not move , their amendment . this be a truly historic Bill , deliver on the Government ' s promise to establish a new national , publicly own energy champion for our country . it have be a privilege to take it through Committee , and I repeat my sincere thank to everyone involve in that process . great British Energy be the right idea for energy security , for bill , for job , and for deliver the climate leadership that the people of this country demand of their government . it be the right idea for our time , hugely support by the british public , and I urge all member of the House to support it this evening . I call the shadow Minister . I also thank the Minister for his work in Committee , but I be afraid we be not reassure . Labour Members have a clear opportunity to prove to their constituent that they will stick to the promise they make just a few month ago . they promise to cut energy bill by £ 300 and to create 650 , 000 job ; if Labour member do not vote for amendment 6 and 8 this evening , we will know that they never have any intention of deliver on those promise . with the leave of the House , I will seek to withdraw new clause 1 , which stand in my name , but we look forward to divide the House on amendment 6 and 8 . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the clause . clause , by leave , withdraw . clause 3 - Objects Amendment propose : 4 , page 2 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( e ) an emergency home insulation programme with target support for people on low income , and ( f ) the expansion and development of renewable energy and technology . " — ( Pippa Heylings . ) this amendment would set object for great British Energy of facilitate , encourage and participate in an emergency home insulation programme with target support for people on low income , and the expansion and development of renewable energy and technology . question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Claire Young Tom Morrison will Forster Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Keir Mather the House divide : Ayes 96 , Noes 353 . question accordingly negative . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 5 September ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . clause 5 - strategic priority and plan Amendment propose : 6 , in page 3 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the statement of strategic priority under subsection ( 1 ) must include the reduction of household energy bill by £ 300 in real term by 1 January 2030 . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Stephen Flynn Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Stephen Gethins John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Ayoub Khan Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Alicia Kearns Jerome Mayhew Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Keir Mather the House divide : Ayes 124 , Noes 361 . question accordingly negative . Amendment propose : 8 , page 3 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the statement of strategic priority under subsection ( 1 ) must include the creation of 650 , 000 new job in the United Kingdom by 2030 result directly or indirectly from great British Energy ' s pursuit of its objective under section 3 . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Lincoln Jopp Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jerome Mayhew Alicia Kearns Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Keir Mather the House divide : Ayes 115 , Noes 361 . question accordingly negative . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it be a privilege to open the Third Reading debate — another milestone in set up great british Energy . in less than four month , this Government have incorporate GBE as a company , appoint Juergen Maier as its start - up chair , and launch its first partnership with the Crown Estate . next will be the national wealth fund . early this month , we announce GBE ' s partnership with key public body in Scotland . we have also announce its headquarters in Aberdeen . we be act on our mandate from the british people . I want to thank everyone who have play a role in get the Bill to this stage : the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , who have do an incredible job steer the Bill through Committee ; member across the House who have scrutinise the Bill in Committee ; all the parliamentary staff who have work on the Bill ; and the fantastic official in my Department who have move at such speed over the last four month . I also want to thank the witness who give evidence to the Committee , all of whom be in support of establish Great British Energy . I be sure that the House will be interested in the list . they include SSE , EDF , Energy UK , RenewableUK , Scottish Renewables , the Carbon Capture and Storage Association , Nesta , the Green Alliance , the Net Zero Technology Centre , the TUC , Prospect and the GMB . and they be not the only one . I can inform the House that they join a grow list of supporter , include the CBI , the Aldersgate Group , Octopus Energy , E . ON , the Hydrogen Energy Association , the Scottish Chambers of Commerce , the Port of Aberdeen , the University of Aberdeen and , of course , the british people themselves , who overwhelmingly back Great british Energy at the general election . sadly , the only people you can find to oppose Great British Energy be the faction of a sect of a once - great party sit on the Opposition Benches . the reason for such support — this will be the argument behind politic for the next few year — be that this country recognise it be time to invest in Britain ' s future and put an end to the decline of the last 14 year . that be the choice of this Bill and the choice of the come year in british politic , and we should relish it : invest or decline . I be fully supportive of GB Energy , but what assurance can my right hon . friend give to the House that it will be a just transition , that it will be adopt across Government , and that the broad sector will buy into it ? my hon . friend have make really important intervention on this point . we have be clear that no company in the UK should have force labour in its supply chain , and we will be work with colleague across Government to tackle the issue of the Uyghur force labour in supply chain that she have raise during the passage of the Bill . as part of that , we have relaunche the solar taskforce and we will work with industry , trade union and other to take forward the action need to develop supply chain that be resilient , sustainable and free from forced labour . great British Energy be the national champion that our country need , for three reason . first , it be at the heart of our mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower . every family and business have pay the price for our country ' s exposure to volatile fossil fuel market over the last two and a half year . a sprint to clean energy be the way to increase our energy independence and protect family and business . we need to invest in wind , solar , nuclear , tidal , hydrogen , carbon capture and more — geothermal too . secondly , Great British Energy will help to generate the job the UK need , not just the power . here ' s the thing : our european neighbour recognise that a publicly own national champion be a critical tool in industrial policy , and the good news be that after 14 year of industrial policy be a dirty , taboo phrase , it be back at the heart of policy making in this Government . great British Energy be part of our plan to ensure that the future be make and build in Britain . thirdly , great British Energy will ensure that the british people reap the benefit of our natural energy resource , generate profit that can be return to bill payer , taxpayer and community across the country . I know that many member of the House be passionate about the issue of local power , so let I reassure they that the Government be commit to deliver the big expansion of support for community - own energy in history . great British Energy be the right idea for our time and have in a short time win huge support . I be sorry that the opposition have choose to wallow in their minority status and stand out against it , but let I tell they : their vote tonight will have consequence . for every project that great British Energy announce in constituency around Britain , every job that it create , every local solar project it initiate and every wind project it invest in , we will tell their constituent that they oppose it . they be the anti - job , pro - energy - insecurity party , and we will hang their opposition to GBE round their neck from here till the next general election . invest or decline : that be the choice , and GBE be the right choice for energy security , bill and job . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . when we say that we could not support the Bill in its original form , it be because we have no detail to justify give this Secretary of State a blank cheque for £ 8 billion of taxpayer ' money . in the intervene two month , I be afraid that we have not learn anything to give we confidence . we have not see a business plan , a framework agreement or an explanation of how this be different from the UK Infrastructure Bank , which be set up to do exactly the same thing . we know that there will be a headquarters in Aberdeen , with a head who will be base 360 mile away in Manchester . we know that that same head do not think that the scope of great British Energy include reduce bill . I remind the Secretary of State that , in an interview in June , he say not only that he be ready to launch Great British Energy within day — so he should have this information — but that it would lead to a " mind - blow " reduction in bill by 2030 . now he have complete the embarrassment of the bright - eyed mps behind he by force they to vote against their own election promise . tonight , Labour Members have vote against hold Great British Energy accountable for cut people ' s energy bill by £ 300 and for create 650 , 000 job . the Secretary of State talk about hang thing around people ' s neck . well , he make his colleague repeat those promise over and over again during the election , and we will see what the electorate remember . these be not trivial matter . this be about people ' s energy bill , people ' s job and business ' ability to succeed in this country . the risk be that this Government be head towards a 2029 election in which industry have be lose and bill have go up — exactly the opposite of what the electorate have be promise . that be not just my argument ; it be the argument of the respected energy and climate economist Dieter Helm . the Secretary of State , whether he be talk about great British Energy or his plan for a zero - carbon grid by 2030 , like to talk in slogan and political mantra , but he do not deal in detail or fact . he know that great British Energy do not have the power to reduce household bill , which be why he have refuse our attempt to hold he accountable for his own promise . the Secretary of State argue that ramp up renewable at breakneck speed will lead to cheap energy and great security — I believe he just say that — but the late renewable auction , which he bump up , will increase people ' s bill by £ 5 . he have advertise to multimillion - pound energy company that he will be buy whatever they be sell , no matter the cost , until 2030 — he even name a few and say that they welcome his approach . I can understand why ! I know that he do not have a business background , but he do not need one to understand what kind of signal he be send . the Secretary of State have not model the cost of constraint payment , network cost or green levy . he have deprioritise exciting new technology such as small and advanced modular reactor , which will come online after 2030 , and he refuse to address the question of dispatchable power . if not gas , what be he argue for in its place and how much will it cost ? far from make energy cheap and more secure , he will send people ' s bill through the roof . and more and more people be sound the alarm about whether he will even be able to keep the light on , which we be able to do even during the height of an energy crisis . tonight , Labour Members have show their true colour by vote against make their own energy company accountable . if the Secretary of State can not even back up his own election promise , why should we back he on this Bill ? question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Keir Mather Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Alicia Kearns Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 361 , Noes 111 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , International Immunities and Privileges that the draft European Forest Institute ( Immunities and Privileges ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 May 2024 , in the last Parliament , be approve . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . Petition - Ilkley Lido parking charge the future of our iconic Ilkley lido , a crown jewel of my constituency since 1935 , be under threat . despite that , Bradford council ' s late act have be to introduce parking charge at the site for the first time ever , without public consultation and at odd with every other pool in the district . this petition of resident of the constituency of Keighley and Ilkley , and the wide Bradford district , note these concern , recognise the undue financial burden this will cause resident and local club who utilise the car park , include the olicanian cricket club , which have no option but to use the Ilkley lido car park , and further note that the Ilkley district be be treat unfairly by Bradford council compare with rest of the Bradford district . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Keighley and Ilkley , declare that for year , visitor have rely on free parking at Denton Road Car Park to make use of the Ilkley lido and other facility ; note concern that Bradford Council have propose parking charge at the popular site for the first time , which will impose an undue financial burden on resident and local club who utilise the car park , include Olicanian Cricket Club ; and further note that Ilkley be be treat unfairly compare to other pool and leisure facility across the Bradford District , and that there have be a lack of consultation with the community . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage Bradford Council to honour its previous commitment to ensure that parking charge at Denton Road Car Park do not adversely affect Ilkley Lido user and Olicanian Cricket Club , staff , player and member . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003017 ] World Stroke Day Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Kate Dearden . ) I be grateful to have this opportunity to address the House on World Stroke Day . Stroke be the UK ' s fourth big killer and the single large cause of complex disability in the UK . on our current trajectory , the number of stroke survivor will increase by 60 % over the next decade , which will swallow up nearly half the current NHS budget . by that time , one in three people in Glastonbury and Somerton will be 65 or old , so we will disproportionately feel the impact of the increase in stroke over the next decade . I congratulate the hon . Lady on secure this debate . she mention the age of 65 , which be really important ; in Northern Ireland , there be some 2 , 800 new stroke every year . while the majority of stroke affect people who be over the age of 65 , they can strike at any age . some 25 % of people who have stroke be under the age of 65 , so do the hon . Lady agree that we must get away from the notion that stroke awareness be only for old people , and that we must be very aware of the fast sign — face , arm , speech and time — that can make the difference between death and recovery ? it can happen to young people as well . the hon . Member make a really important point . although we often assume that it be old people who suffer with stroke , so many young people suffer in the same way . unless there be major improvement , Somerset ' s poor ambulance response time and poor life - after - stroke care will mean that a disproportionate number of the 42 , 000 people who will die from stroke in 2035 will be from my constituency . far to the point that the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) make , although I fully accept that we have to do more in term of stroke care , do my hon . friend agree that the population of this country be generally unaware of the early warning sign of stroke to look for ? when it actually happen , we recognise the symptom , but we have no awareness of the long - term warning sign . we need to invest in teach people what to look for and how to care for themselves to avoid a stroke . I thank my hon . friend for make such an important point . I think we have progress in our understanding of stroke awareness , but there be so much more yet to do . neither stroke nor the grim prediction I have make be inevitable . stroke be preventable , it be treatable , and it be recoverable . will the hon . Lady allow I to place on record my thank to the innovative team at the stroke unit in Crosshouse hospital , whose new treatment , thrombolysis , mean that — as the hon . Lady say — there be a way for many people to recover follow stroke ? I would like to thank charge nurse Elizabeth , consultant Martin and Sundeep , and Julie and Debbie in the hospital management team for save my former teacher , Christine Stewart , when she self - diagnose with FAST . the hon . Member make a very good point , and I also celebrate those people , who do such hard work within their community . the UK know how to deliver world - class stroke care , and some part of England be do that as I speak . stroke be one of the few condition that take patient through the entirety of the health and social care system , from emergency service and acute care to social care , specialist rehabilitation support and end - of - life care . I be really grateful to the hon . member for secure this debate . time be everything with regard to a stroke , particularly around diagnosis , but also if treatment such as thrombectomy be need . do she agree that we should be look at ambulance response time in particular , and perhaps at recategorise stroke as a category 1 call - out ? I thank the hon . member for her intervention and for all the work she have do in this area . I will come to the issue of ambulance response time a little later in my speech . delay in urgent care be currently lead to high mortality rate , and post - stroke service that provide crucial emotional , practical and social support be often treat as optional , rather than essential . I thank the hon . Lady for secure this important debate . she rightly talk about the need for stroke patient to receive urgent medical treatment . last month , I attend a thrombectomy awareness event at which my constituent , Mark Paterson , be speak as a stroke survivor . Mark ' s remarkable recovery be thank to the emergency thrombectomy procedure he receive . sadly , many other be not so lucky , with too many people die or suffer disability due to the previous Government ' s postcode lottery in care . about this time last year , the Stroke Association say that about 9 . 8 % of patient receive that treatment in London , compare with 0 . 4 % in the east of England . do the hon . Lady agree that we need to see an increase in the proportion of patient receive thrombectomy across the country ? I thank the hon . member for the intervention . he make a strong point . our health and social care service be likely fail the 14 , 159 register stroke survivor in Somerset at some stage in the system , but there be reason to be optimistic . if the government put stroke at the heart of our health and social care system , each and every part of the system will be strong and deliver well outcome for everyone — not just stroke survivor . leave aside the human cost , there be also an economic cost , as stroke lead to an avoidable £ 1 . 6 billion annual loss of productivity . I recently speak to Garry , who work in Somerset and have a stroke in his 30 . he tell I that he could have be back to work after nine month if he have have access to life - after - stroke care . instead , he spend five year recover , during which time he have to rely on the benefit system . at the start of the debate , I say that stroke be preventable , treatable and recoverable . if that be true — I know that it be — why be people like Garry force to waste year in the prime of their life learn how to recover from stroke themselves ? the hon . Lady be make an important point . our clinical profession do an incredible job of save many people who suffer from a stroke , but the rehabilitation work that follow survive a stroke — the ability to get back into work , build emotional confidence and rebuild relationship — be so important . as she be detail , too many people who survive stroke have to wait for year to get on with their life , include their work , friendship and relationship . I wholeheartedly agree , and that be exactly the point that I be make . research from the Stroke Association show that the NHS face £ 1 , 300 of additional pressure for each person like Garry who do not receive life - after - stroke care , due to avoidable secondary stroke and other health complication . it be an injustice for stroke survivor who be suffer long than they need to , for the taxpayer who could be pay less , and for the friend and family who often have no choice but to become unpaid carer to support stroke survivor , as my mum do for my dad after he suffer a stroke . unpaid carer currently bear 62 % of the cost of prevalent stroke , with the NHS and social care bear only a distant 9 % and 22 % respectively . unpaid carer do a remarkable , important and often invisible job , and the Government must ensure they have access to the support that they need , include pay carer ' s leave and a statutory guarantee of regular respite break . there be not many easy answer when it come to stroke . constituent across Glastonbury and Somerton have write to I almost every month since my re - election because they be concerned about the closure of yeovil district hospital hyper - acute service . it be right that step be be take to address the fact that 60 % of people who arrive at hospital do not get into a stroke unit quickly enough , so service be be reconfigure to provide patient with cutting - edge care in Dorchester or Taunton . by concentrate hyper - acute service , ward can process patient more quickly , which be so important when care for patient suffer from a stroke . after critical care have be provide , patient will be move back to service close to their home , such as Yeovil , so that family and friend will be able to visit their love one there rather than in critical care far away . I can understand why people be scared of potentially have to travel far in an emergency when response time be so poor . in fact , with an average response time of 42 minute and 50 second , people in Somerset wait long for an ambulance than anywhere else in England . for every minute a stroke be leave untreated , nearly 2 million brain cell die , so fast ambulance response time be necessary for get stroke patient lifesave , disability - reduce treatment in time . this be especially important for those live in rural location , such as Glastonbury and Somerton , who may need to travel far for treatment . liberal Democrat analysis have reveal that wait for life - threaten call be 45 % long in rural area than in urban one . the average handover time for a category 2 ambulance call in Somerset have rise to over an hour , despite the ongoing 18 - minute target , which result in ambulance crew be able to see only two or three patient per shift . the Government could lower these ambulance response time by increase the number of staff hospital bed , and ensure our social care system be resource well enough to allow people to recover outside hospital . we know that a matter of minute can make all the difference in emergency , so it be heartbreake that ambulance delay be worsen and stroke victim be be leave for hour for help to arrive . I be inspire by the stroke quality improvement for rehabilitation project , which have help over half the stroke survivor who be previously be fail by service in Somerset . the pilot have ensure that survivor have access to personalised and face - to - face support to help they with behavioural change and re - enter work . despite its success in prevent secondary stroke , and thus save the health and social care system a great deal of money , the pilot be unlikely to receive funding from April next year , and 250 patient in Somerset face the prospect of lose access to good - quality life - after - stroke support . I be particularly worried about stroke survivor in Glastonbury and Somerton , and elsewhere in Somerset , who will instead have to rely on yeovil district hospital if this happen , as yeovil district hospital provide only the minimum level of occupational therapy , physiotherapy , and speech and language therapy a week to less than half as many patient as the national average . there be a future where we no long need to have a World Stroke Day , and that be what I be look for — a future without a World Stroke Day . innovation such as the use of artificial intelligence in diagnosis could revolutionise recovery prospect for stroke patient , and preventive programme could limit the impact stroke have on working - age people . we see stroke mortality halve in just 10 year when stroke be prioritise in 2000 , so progress can be make . if we be to reach that future , though , we must start by ringfence budget to enable the NHS to adopt innovative digital tool , invest in new technology and develop a digital strategy . this government have already begin to make some progress with the Darzi report , which show that the NHS be on its knee after year of mismanagement by the Conservatives , but we must ensure that stroke remain a top priority in their health mission . I would just like to share my experience . on my first day here in the Commons , my husband suffer a stroke . this be a timely debate , so I thank the hon . member for secure it . I be pleased to say that my husband be do much well now , and he be here in the Gallery of the Chamber , as be those from the Stroke Association , who have be absolutely invaluable to our family and many stroke survivor across the country . I would like to pick up a point that the hon . Member make about stroke . one in four stroke happen to people of work age , and one in three in this group will have to give up their job . it be very clear that , although the NHS have give excellent care to my husband and to family such as mine , there be much more to be do . the Darzi report reveal the scale of the challenge that our health service face , especially with stroke service , and the severe impact of the underfunding of the last Conservative Government . I thank the hon . Lady , and it be so good to hear that her husband be make such a full and quick recovery . World Stroke Day be a pertinent reminder that stroke must be well represent in the new 10 - year health plan and that the Government must engage with patient , carer , and health and social care professional , so that their live experience can help inform policy decision . I congratulate the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) on secure a debate on this vitally important issue . it be important not only for her constituent but for she personally , I think , give her family circumstance ; I know she really speak from the heart and we appreciate that . good health should be fundamental to all of our life , but sadly that be not the case for too many people . over 100 , 000 people have a stroke in the UK every year — one person every five minute . one third of they will be leave with some form of long - term disability . as the fourth large cause of death for adult , stroke have a devastating impact on individual , their family and wide community across our country . for decade the NHS have serve we well , and it be one of the proud achievement of the Labour party that we be at the foundation of our NHS . our staff have tremendous expertise and dedication ; they be work hard every day to make a difference . but we have to face up to the reality that we have have 14 year of neglect and incompetence on the part of the conservative party . we be now face a very significant set of challenge in look to get our health and care system back on its foot and fit for the future . that be the important context for this debate . I be very grateful to the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton for give I the opportunity to inform she and the House of the work that the Government have be do since we come into office on 4 July , and particularly as today be World Stroke Day . the House will have see that we have set out the three transformative shift that we want to deliver in health and care , move from care in hospital to care at home , prioritise prevention over treatment , and advance from analogue to digital solution . these three strategic shift will be the building block of our health mission , reduce time spend in poor health , tackle health inequality and reduce life lose from the big killer , which include cardiovascular disease . we have to change the NHS so that it be no long just a sickness service but a prevention service too . prevention be always well and cheap than cure . so we have to take preventive public health measure to tackle the big killer and support people to live long , healthy life . that be why in our health mission to build an nhs that be fit for the future , we have commit to reduce death from heart disease and stroke by one quarter within 10 year . the NHS health check , England ' s flagship cardiovascular disease prevention programme , aim to prevent heart disease , stroke , diabete , kidney disease and some form of dementia . each year the programme engage over 1 . 3 million people and , through behavioural and clinical intervention , prevent around 500 heart attack or stroke . to improve access to and engagement with this life - save programme , we be develop a new digital NHS health check , which will be ready for testing in early 2025 . it will enable people to undertake a check at home . we be also trialle more than 130 , 000 life - save heart health check in the workplace . these check can be complete quickly and easily by people at work so that they can understand and act on their cardiovascular risk and reduce their future risk of a stroke . around 50 % of heart attack and stroke be associate with high blood pressure . community pharmacy be provide a free blood pressure check service for anyone over the age of 40 . in case where this result in a high reading , pharmacist can make sure people receive the right NHS support to reduce their blood pressure . we know that there be more to do to prevent the cause of stroke , and the Department and NHS England be work together to tackle this issue . I be also pleased to announce that on Monday 4 November NHS England be launch a new Act fast campaign to increase knowledge of the main sign of a stroke and to encourage people to dial 999 immediately in response to any sign . the new campaign build on the success of the previous Act fast campaign and use a revised call to action : " face or arm or speech , at the first sign , it ' s time to call 999 " . I pay tribute to a young man who live in Shepton Mallet name Will . he spot what be happen to his father . he be a young man with some difficulty himself , but he recognise FAST . he have see it on television , and it be testament to the power of television and radio campaign in make sure that those message get through , because that young man have difficulty in communicate and move , but he manage to get the rest of his family to realise what be happen to his father sit there across the breakfast table . I just want to mark that . I thank the hon . Lady for that telling intervention . she be absolutely right : so much of the challenge and the opportunity before we be about how we use traditional medium , social medium , all form of communication and awareness - raise campaign and technique . by definition , we be deal with a situation in which speed be of the essence . it be truly a public health challenge , because it be only the public who can do what will do in that circumstance . I certainly pay tribute to Will for act so quickly and to the Act fast campaign . I be sure member will welcome that we be look to build on the success of Act fast and to replicate and renew it . that campaign will run in England across tv , radio , social medium , national press and ethnic minority tv and radio station . the campaign include specific communication for multicultural and disabled audience . a high reduction in mortality rate over the next 10 year will require a focus on NHS England stroke priority , include rapid diagnosis and increase access to time - dependent specialist acute stroke care . we know that so many deadly disease can be avoid if we seek help in enough time . that be why we be work to improve access to treatment . current target include increase thrombectomy rate to 10 % and thrombolysis rate to 20 % through facilitate ambulance service use of pre - hospital video triage and use of AI decision support tool for brain imaging in comprehensive stroke centre . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Mid Cheshire ( Andrew Cooper ) have a keen interest in that issue . build on the point make by my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , do the Minister agree that stroke patient should have the high priority for ambulance call - out — as high as cardiac arrest , for example ? I be a little wary of generalise too much , because I know that so many decision have to be make in real time by our skilled ambulance driver and paramedic and the many other involve , but my hon . friend make a valid point . in a general sense , he be absolutely right that stroke need to take priority . the red thread go through this entire debate be the need for speed . it be all about prioritise and act quickly ; he be absolutely right about that . in the past year , we have see a 30 % increase in the number of thrombectomy deliver in England . alongside that , our 20 integrate stroke delivery network be look to optimise care pathway . the General Medical Council be address critical workforce gap through its thrombectomy credentialling programme , and our national optimal stroke imaging pathway be improve information sharing . I be aware of the reconfiguration in the constituency of the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton . NHS Somerset integrate care board have decide to close the hyper - acute stroke unit at Yeovil hospital and to establish a single hyper - acute stroke unit at Musgrove Park hospital in Taunton to provide 24 / 7 emergency treatment . all service change should be base on clear evidence that they will deliver well outcome for patient . a high bar be set out in guidance for intervene in contest reconfiguration case , and the reconfiguration of service should be a matter for the local NHS . I would expect all avenue of local resolution to have be exhaust before a call - in request be make . the Department have receive a formal request to call in NHS Somerset ICB ' s decision , and Ministers will make a decision on whether to use their call - in power in due course . unfortunately , there be still significant variation across the country in access and outcome in relation to stroke . for example , the percentage of suspect stroke patient who receive the necessary brain scan within an hour of arrival at hospital vary from 80 % in Kent to only around 40 % in Shropshire . that variation need to change , and we need to bring the good of the NHS to the rest of the NHS . that will be one of the central challenge for the Government go forward . the Government have a profound ambition to improve the life and health outcome of people who survive a stroke . at this point , I would like to pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) and to the man in the Public Gallery for what they have be through and for their fortitude . it be certainly not easy for my hon . friend to come to this place and to have to go through the extremely difficult situation that she do . I also pay tribute to all the key partner and stakeholder who work with she and her family to get through it . that really be a tribute to the immensely important work they do . as well as look at acute triage to rapidly diagnose people who have have a stroke , it be important to invest in rehabilitation — something I do for 20 year in the NHS . I would be grateful if the Minister could set out how he propose to have integrate rehabilitation team that not only see people through the immediate aftercare , but continue to provide a top - up for they so that they do not backslide in their rehabilitation . I can say a word about our national service model for an integrated community stroke service , which involve a number of specific project aim at improve delivery of psychological rehabilitation . the ICSS model be vital to support psychological recovery , return to work and improve quality of life , and I would be more than happy to discuss it far with my hon . friend . before I close , I want to recognise the remarkable work of the charity that help people across the country to rebuild their life after a stroke . once again , I thank the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton for this important debate , and I encourage every Member of the House to go to change . nhs . uk and to get involve in the big conversation about our health and care service since its foundation in 1948 . question put and agree to . House adjourn .