business before Questions General Cemetery Bill [ Lords ] Bill read a second time . Speaker ' s statement I have receive a letter from the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) ask for permission for an issue to be give precedence as a matter of privilege . it concern a legal case that could potentially have the effect of prevent the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration — also know as the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman — from lay a report before Parliament under section 10 ( 3 ) of the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 . Standing Order no . 146 give the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee the task of examine such report . the free flow of information to Parliament be essential to its work and , in the past , attempt to prevent communication to the House or its Committees have be treat as contempt . accordingly , I have decide that this be indeed a matter for which I should allow the precedence accord to issue of privilege . the hon . Member can therefore table a motion to be debate on Thursday . the motion will be take after any urgent question or statement and before Government business . it will be available to member once it have be table , which I expect will be before the rise of the House today . oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Secretary of State be ask — Official Development Assistance Budget what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of reduction to the official development assistance budget on UK - support humanitarian and development programme overseas . welcome back after the recess , Mr Speaker . we remain committed to international development , but we must modernise our approach . in a change world , we be not just donor ; we be partner , investor and reformer . we must ensure that every pound deliver for the UK taxpayer , as well as the people we support . sharpen our priority on humanitarian health , climate and nature , and ensure that they be underpin by economic development ; prioritise our work with multilateral ; and shift how we work will help we maximise our impact . natural disaster like the earthquake in Jalalabad , recent wildfire and flood be become more and more frequent as a result of climate change . support for Ukraine and for Gaza have survive the disastrous cut to ODA , but what assessment have the Department make of the impact of ODA reduction on country face humanitarian and natural disaster , and can the UK still provide the amount of aid need to prevent displacement and migration as a result of those crisis ? the hon . member raise important issue . we have see horrific scene in Afghanistan , and he will know that we give £ 1 million yesterday . we have also see terrible scene in Sudan this morning . he will know that tackle the climate and nature emergency around the world be a priority for we , and we continue to support humanitarian work around the world . of course , respond to disaster remain a key part of that , and we have demonstrate that repeatedly in a number of contexts , through the support that we have give . could the Minister update the House on the reduction in assistance to place include Myanmar , and on democracy there , and the imprisonment of Daw Suu ? we have to make very difficult choice as a result of the decision we make . we remain absolutely committed to international development . the detailed allocation will be set out in due course , and they will of course be inform by impact assessment before we publish multi - year allocation . I call the shadow Minister . at a time when we face global development spending reduction across critical area such as global health , woman , peace and security , girl ' education , water , sanitation and hygiene , and nutrition , Ministers have choose to increase energy and climate spending by £ 244 million — an increase of 59 % . could the Minister explain the rationale for that significant increase and outline how those fund will be allocate , particularly as , unlike in 2024 - 25 , no breakdown of political priority be available for scrutiny ? as I have just say , we will set out the detailed allocation in due course ; they will be inform by impact assessment . the right hon . Member rightly raise the issue of woman and girl . of course , less money do not mean less action , and we see our work on woman and girl as essential for development and our UK mission overseas . we have appoint Baroness Harman as a UK special envoy for woman and girl . we be amplify the voice of woman ' s organisation and movement , include in climate - affect context , and embed gender equality across our international action . that be absolutely a priority for we , and we will set out the detail of individual programme , inform by those impact assessment , in due course . with congratulation on her marriage over the summer recess , I call Louise Sandher - Jones . Sudan what assessment he have make of the humanitarian situation in Sudan . may I begin by acknowledge the terrible loss of life in Tarseen in Darfur over the weekend ? Sudan be face its bad humanitarian crisis on record . over 30 million people need aid , 12 million have be displace , and famine and cholera be spread . as the UN Security Council penholder , we be lead effort to secure humanitarian access and the protection of civilian . El Fasher have be under siege for over 500 day , and famine and cholera — all man - make problem — be rife . it have be describe as the " epicentre of child suffering " . what be the UK do to protect civilian and ensure that humanitarian aid can reach those who need it ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the leadership that she have show on this issue . I speak to the UN emergency relief co - ordinator just yesterday and raise this issue . of course , we be support the call of the Office for the Co - ordination of Humanitarian Affairs for a pause in fighting , so that aid can get in and the suffering can be alleviate . I will of course be lead on this issue as we head towards the UN General Assembly in New York . do the Government actually have an Africa strategy — not just for north Africa , but for sub - Saharan Africa — and do the Foreign Secretary share my concern about the apparent lack of focus on the importance of sub - Saharan Africa to the security of the United States , let alone to our security and that of Africa itself ? I encourage the Foreign Secretary to reach out to the US Secretary of State , and to join european partner in have a join - up Africa strategy to deal with climate change , famine and terrorism in the Sahel and all across Africa — issue that be impact on community there , and on legal migration to this country . will he work with his american partner ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise Africa . the first thing that we do on come into office be establish an Africa approach and a widespread consultation across the continent — that be absolutely right . we must be careful that authoritarian power do not move in where the west exit . I reassure he that I have raise and discuss those issue with Secretary of State Rubio . give the devastation of the United States Agency for International Development , the temporary cut in official development assistance and the grow desperate situation in area of Africa , be the Foreign Secretary willing to meet I and colleague who have work in and care about the region , to understand our long - term strategy , particularly against China and Russia , which be move in to fill that void ? I be grateful for the leadership that my hon . Friend show on these issue before come to this place ; she continue to champion they now . on the Africa approach , and change to development aid across the continent , whether they be make by we or by partner , either I or my colleague who lead on development will be very happy to meet my hon . friend . the Rapid Support Forces have trap 260 , 000 civilian in El Fasher , half of whom be child , and many of whom be survive on animal fodder . how be the Government work with ally to alleviate the effect on civilian of the terrible war in Sudan ? the hon . Gentleman will have see that I lead the Sudan conference , at which I bring third - party country together to discuss those issue , co - ordinate across they , and ensure that nothing be do to exacerbate the conflict on that continent . as I indicate early , I expect to do more as we head towards UNGA , and to gather those third party so that we get a pause and can get aid in . Gaza : humanitarian aid what diplomatic step he be take to help ensure humanitarian aid can reach people in Gaza . what step he be take to help increase level of aid enter Gaza . what diplomatic step he be take to help ensure humanitarian aid can reach people in Gaza . what step he be take to support people impact by the humanitarian situation in the Middle East . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . in response to the deepening crisis , the Foreign Secretary yesterday announce a furth £ 15 million of aid and medical care for Gaza and the region , take our total funding to £ 75 million this year . we be work to get child with the most acute need out of Gaza and into the UK for specialist NHS treatment . the Foreign Secretary and I continue to urge the israeli authority to address the famine and the catastrophic humanitarian situation immediately . More than 20 , 000 palestinian child have be hospitalise for acute malnutrition this year alone . Amnesty International have condemn Israel ' s use of starvation as a " weapon of war " , and the UN deputy relief chief have call the aid blockade a " human - make crisis " . will the Minister move beyond word of condemnation and commit to concrete action , include stop all arm export to Israel , and immediately and unconditionally recognise the statehood of Palestine ? the hon . Lady raise vital question . the IPC — integrate food security phase classification — report over the recess be truly horrify : 500 , 000 people in Gaza be face famine . we continue to take the action that we discuss in the House yesterday afternoon , in relation to recognition and the suspension of arm that could be use in Gaza . I share many of my constituent ' despair and anger about the intolerable suffering in Gaza . last year , I have the privilege of meet one of my constituent , Becky , to hear about her heartbreaking experience of deliver medical aid in Palestine . devastatingly , a year on , the situation be much bad , with Gaza now the child amputee capital of the world and thousand more family push to starvation . there have be some welcome move from the Government in recent month , but clearly not enough have yet be do — nothing can be until the suffering have stop . what far urgent action can we take to finally secure access to the aid that Gaza desperately need , and end this intolerable suffer ? I thank my hon . friend and his constituent , Becky . over the recess , I meet doctor who have serve in Gaza . hear their first - hand account of the injury that child be suffer there be truly horrifying . we continue to press the israeli Government . they must act urgently to lift restriction , open up aid flow and enable the UN and international non - governmental organisation to carry out their lifesave work without obstruction . the Foreign Secretary deliver that message to Foreign Minister Sa ' ar just last week , and over the past month we have deliver strong , co - ordinate message with partner through joint statement . the Minister will know that M é decin Sans Fronti è re have refer to the location use by the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation as site of " orchestrated killing " . what pressure be the Government bring to bear on both the israeli and US government to stop use the foundation and reinstate the United Nations - lead system of aid delivery ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . the Foreign Secretary set out our very clear view yesterday afternoon . the GHF be not work and have lead to thousand upon thousand of injury and many , many death at its site . I have hear of the considerable looting that be associate with the lack of UN machinery — machinery that be function effectively . I be glad to tell the House that there do appear to be more aid get into Gaza in total , and the cost of flour have slightly reduce , but there be still considerable looting . the aid operation be not work as it should . the UK support the UN and its agency . the GHF be not work . the UN have now confirm famine in Gaza City . More than half a million people face catastrophic condition of starvation , destitution and death . this be a man - make disaster , describe by the UN Secretary - General as " a failure of humanity " . at least 600 daily truckload be need to avert further famine - relate death , yet Israel continue to block aid . will the Government commit today to concrete action to pressure the israeli Government to lift the obstruction , include sanction all member of the Cabinet , include Netanyahu , who be complicit in the illegal aid blockade ? I have be clear already about our view on the vital urgency of lift aid restriction . I have go myself to the border to see our aid in al - Arish . I have speak to our partner . UK - Med , for example , have be chase consignment since March . we make these point with force to the israeli Government , and we have already take far - reach sanction action , as discuss by the Foreign Secretary yesterday afternoon . in famine condition , new mother often eat last and eat the least . this time next year , around 55 , 000 pregnant and breastfeed woman in Gaza could be at risk of death by starvation that be man - make . follow Belgium ' s announcement today of new sanction and a review of contract with israeli company , can the Minister say what consequence Israel will face if it continue to starve the population of Gaza ? my hon . friend have a long track record of raise such issue , and she be absolutely right to highlight the fate of pregnant woman and those who have recently give birth in Gaza . I be pleased to tell the House that we be still able to get some supply relevant to those challenge into Gaza , but clearly in a famine of this nature , pregnant woman and recently bear child suffer the bad . we have allocate a furth £ 3 million via the UNFPA — the UN Population Fund — to try to provide the service need . we will continue to do all we can with the israeli Government to ensure that they provide the access require . President Trump and envoy Steve Witkoff play an important role in secure the previous ceasefire agreement . at crucial moment , Netanyahu have be receptive to Trump ' s wish ; we see that early this year , when Israel and Iran step back from the brink . as the White House have a defining role to play here , will the Foreign Secretary , with our ally , urge the US to apply its full weight to its leverage ? I agree very much with my hon . friend . the US of course have a key role to play in secure a last peace in the region . as the Foreign Secretary say yesterday , he have raise the issue directly with his american counterpart , as have the rest of the ministerial team . I confirm the Government ' s full support for the US , Qatar and Egypt in their vital work to secure a sustainable ceasefire . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . one hundred and sixty - eight day ago , the Foreign Secretary describe the Netanyahu Government ' s aid blockade of Gaza as a " breach of international law " , before correct himself to describe it as only risk a breach . yesterday , the Foreign Secretary tell the House that Gaza face a " man - make famine " and that he be " outraged " by the israeli Government ' s block on aid , so do the Government now accept that Israel have breach international law ? yesterday , the Foreign Secretary set out the long - stand position of Ministers on such determination . under the previous Government , the threshold that this House set government be whether there be a real risk . we have apply ourselves to that test , and we have find that there be a real risk . our action from September onwards have flow from that determination . Chagos Islands what discussion he have have with his international counterpart on the Chagos Islands . the Diego Garcia military base be essential to the security of the United Kingdom and our key ally , and to keep the british people safe . the treaty be test at the high level of the United States ' security establishment , which support the deal . the agreement have be back by our key ally and international partner , include the US and all our five Eyes partner . India , Japan and South Korea have make clear their support for the deal . by not even try to go to court or argue the case , the Government have cost the taxpayer £ 30 billion . do the Minister agree with the Defence Minister who say that the deal represent " good value " for UK taxpayer ? as I have explain many time in the House , those figure be completely misleading . the net present value of payment under the treaty be £ 3 . 4 billion . the average cost of the deal in today ' s money be £ 101 million per year . that be just a fraction of our Defence budget , and represent a few hour of spending on our NHS . this government will not scrimp when it come to the national security of the United Kingdom and our ally . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . give that the Foreign Office have not agree with Mauritius a define financial allocation for the Chagos marine protect area ; give that no additional money have be secure or ringfence for environmental protection ; give that no one who would be involve in the administration of the marine protect area have so much as visit the archipelago ; give the very little communication between the Mauritius Government and the british scientific community , who currently protect the area ; give that the capacity of Mauritius to patrol the archipelago for poacher be unknown ; and give that it be not clear whether the dispute mechanism set out in the treaty can even be use if the UK deem that Mauritius be in breach of its marine protection commitment , what be the Minister ' s hope for this absolutely unique and priceless marine protect area ? can that all be fix by the memorandum of understanding ? order . sorry , but I have a lot of member to get in . I have give the Chair of the Select Committee a lot of leeway . it might be worth her put in for an Adjournment debate , if there be so much to say on the subject ; I would be more than happy with that . I thank my right hon . friend for her interest in this important issue , which she and member of the Foreign Affairs Committee have raise with I previously . the Government have secure a deal that will help to protect the unique environment of the Chagos archipelago , support by an enhance partnership between the UK and Mauritius , under which we will support Mauritius ' s ambition to establish a marine protect area to protect the globally significant ecosystem to which she refer . the agreement of the term of the technical support and assistance be a priority within the ongoing implementation process with Mauritius . I have listen very carefully to what she say and she can be assure that I have already be ask question about many of those issue . I call the shadow Minister . the Government have now be force to admit the real cost of the catastrophic Chagos surrender deal : it be not £ 3 . 4 billion — oh no , Mr Speaker — it be a mind blow £ 34 . 7 billion , which be 10 time more that we be tell . no wonder Mauritius be plan tax cut of its own , and it be british business and family who will pay the price . this deal leave our country poorer , our defence capability damage and our standing in the world weaken . will the Minister now apologise to the british people for this epic failure in diplomacy , withdraw his Chagos surrender Bill and keep the island british ? how ever many time the hon . Gentleman , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) or the conservative party in its email to supporter make this claim about the cost , it do not mean that it be true — it be not . the £ 30 billion figure be inaccurate and misleading . it be wrong to ignore the cost of inflation and the change in the value of money , over the real cost of a deal that last 99 year . the figure be verify by the Government Actuary ' s Department , draw on long - establish methodology . I have set out the cost . we will not scrimp on national security . quite frankly , the brass neck from Conservative Members , after they disinvest in our armed force and our defence over the entire time they be in office , be quite extraordinary . Georgia : democracy what diplomatic step he be take to help protect democracy in Georgia . we be deeply concerned about the situation in Georgia , as I have discuss with my hon . friend on a number of occasion . we be work closely with european ally to protect democracy in Georgia . in June , I convene a meeting of european partner to discuss and address the democratic backsliding in Georgia , and on 11 July the Foreign Secretary condemn the detention of opposition leader in a statement with European Foreign Ministers . we remain committed to Georgia ' s Euro - Atlantic path and democratic norm . may I join you , Mr Speaker , in congratulate the Minister on his nuptial ? I thank he for the lead he have take on Georgia . he will know , because he have recently be in Georgia , that over the summer the situation have dramatically worsen : opposition leader have be jail , young democracy activist have be give life - change prison sentence , and the civil society organisation that be try to protect democracy have be threaten with prosecution . the complaint of the democracy activist I use to work with be that all of this brutality be happen while the regime ' s money be wash through business associate in London . will the Minister target the people who be responsible for this brutality and hold they accountable ? my hon . friend raise important and serious issue . he know that the Foreign Secretary and I prioritise tackle illicit finance more broadly . I will not comment on future potential measure , but he will know that we have impose a number of sanction on georgian Dream Ministers , on police chief and on georgian judge under the global anti - corruption sanction regime . indeed , in April we also sanction the general prosecutor , the head of the special investigatory service and other official . I can not comment on future step , but he can be assure that I be follow this issue daily . I join other in congratulate the Minister on his nuptial — that be happy news for everybody . the Minister will be aware of the fantastic work that UK - base non - governmental organisation have do about civil society stability , which be crucial in these dark time . with the cut to the international development budget , will the Minister assure I that work in that space in Georgia and elsewhere will not be undermine as a result of those cut ? I set out the position on the change to our aid budget early . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we recognise the important work that civil society do in Georgia , and indeed more broadly , in ensure a free society . he will appreciate that the situation there be very difficult . we have suspend all our programme support for the Georgian Government , restrict our defence co - operation , limit our engagement with georgian Dream representative and freeze the annual strategic dialogue in response to the very disturbing direction of travel that we have see in Georgia . I also thank the hon . gentleman for his kind comment . I call the shadow Minister . it be indeed time for a step change in the UK ' s response to the sinister crackdown on freedom and political opposition in Georgia . it be welcome that the Minister be assess asset ban and freeze on those responsible for this wholly unacceptable situation . may I ask that he step up effort for the georgian civil society counter - destabilisation hybrid activity , especially in the information space and the actor that might be involve in that ? what discussion have he have with the US Administration in the light of the MEGOBARI Bill go through Congress ? we engage regularly with international counterpart on Georgia and on wide stability in the south Caucasus . the right hon . Gentleman mention the importance of media freedom . he will know that we condemn the disproportionate and politically motivated sentencing of Mzia Amaglobeli in August ; she have be sentence to two year in prison , and we call for her immediate release . I also discuss the wide situation with Georgia ' s fifth president , President Zourabichvili , on her recent visit to the UK , and I express my support for her work support democracy in Georgia . the right hon . Gentleman will understand that I will not comment on further measure , but he can be absolutely assure that I be closely follow matter , as be other colleague across Government . Gaza : evacuation of UK Scholarship Students what progress his Department have make on the evacuation of UK scholarship student from Gaza . I have be work closely with the Home Secretary to ensure that student from Gaza , include Chevening scholar , can secure their UK visa . we be expect nine chevene student to start their course soon . I be pleased to say that we be extend this support to student in Gaza with full scholarship . Yara be a 24 - year - old student from Gaza City . her ambition be to study international law and global justice , and early this year she win a scholarship at the University of Sheffield to do just that . Yara be one of more than 80 scholarship student trap in Gaza today , displace again and again , with all her belonging pack into a small bag and ready to move at a moment ' s notice . this scholarship offer she a chance to escape Israel ' s genocide , famine and bombardment , which have flatten more than 1 , 000 building in Yara ' s neighbourhood in just one week . can the Foreign Secretary guarantee that Yara and other student like she will not be leave strand and will be immediately evacuate by the Government in time for their course to start this month ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for bring Yara to the attention of the House . of course we want to see bright student like she able to achieve their ambition . we be reliant on israeli permission and on student have a full scholarship , but what I can do be ensure that the Minister for the Middle East meet my hon . friend to discuss this case in detail . along with thousand of other child , my young son be today go back for his first day at school . unfortunately , more than 660 , 000 gazan child — those who have not be butcher or maim irreversibly by the Israel Defence Forces — be be deny schooling for the third consecutive year . that be not surprising , give that 97 % of school have already be virtually destroy . what be the Secretary of State do to ensure that the next generation of Palestinians can access education , alongside launch a bespoke visa system that enable student to come to study here in the UK ? if not , why not ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise with the House the plight of child in Gaza . yesterday I mention my concern about malnourished child and what that do for their educational outcome . yesterday he will have hear the Home Secretary and myself undertake to do more to support student with full scholarship to come to our country . of course , as the hon . Gentleman would expect , I press the israeli Foreign Minister on these very same issue . Gaza : Ceasefire what step he be take to support a ceasefire in Gaza . what recent step his Department have take to help secure peace in the Middle East . what discussion he have have with his israeli counterpart on civilian death in Gaza . what step he be take to help restore the ceasefire in Gaza . the situation on the ground in Gaza be horrendous , and we urgently want to see a deal do to end the suffering on all side . an immediate ceasefire be our overwhelming priority , alongside the unconditional release of all hostage and a large - scale delivery of aid . the ceasefire must be sustainable and lead to a wide peace plan , which we be develop with our international partner . my constituency of Watford be a richly ethnically diverse community . when I speak to resident there about the conflict in Gaza , the overwhelming desire be for the killing to stop , for the hostage to be release and for the people of Gaza to be able to live in peace . will the Secretary of State further outline what step the Government be take to aid international effort to broker the ceasefire and what be frustrate it ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue . diplomacy , not bloodshed , be how we get security for both Israelis and Palestinians , and get to a ceasefire be the immediate priority . I will be in the region again in the come day , discuss with they the Prime Minister ' s framework for peace , which be the only plan , and how we govern Gaza and move forward once we get to that ceasefire , build a consensus around a sustainable end to the conflict . I reiterate the concern raise last night by my fellow journalist and hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) in highlight Gaza as the deadly war for journalist . over 189 have be kill since October 2023 , despite reporter be categorise as protect civilian under international law . Israel seem set on a deadly campaign to silence journalist in Gaza while refuse entry to other international journalist . can the Secretary of State join I in condemn that strategy and in pay tribute to those who be risk their life to get news out of Gaza , and also commend our own domestic broadcaster — include the much - malign BBC — for keep we inform on what be go on there ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for bring this matter to the House ' s attention . I strongly condemn all violence direct against journalist , and call on the israeli authority to make every effort to ensure that medium worker across the region can conduct their work freely and safely . deliberate target of journalist be entirely unacceptable . international humanitarian law offer protection to civilian journalist during any armed conflict , and those law should be abide by . I call for all attack to be investigate and for those responsible to be prosecute . last week ' s Nasser hospital bombing murder many innocent people , include five journalist , and the double - tap method use be particularly barbaric . article 79 of the Geneva convention state that journalist be civilian during war , and article 8 of the Rome statute make it clear that attack civilian in a hospital be a war crime . I agree with the Guardian ' s editorial yesterday when it state that " Israel want to stop the world from see what it ' s do " . do the Foreign Secretary agree that the Nasser hospital bombing be a war crime , and what action will he be take against Israel ? on 21 August the UK join a Media Freedom Coalition statement call on and urge Israel to allow immediate independent foreign medium access and afford protection to journalist operate in Gaza . there must now be a full , independent investigation into what happen at the Nasser hospital , and my hon . friend be right to call to mind the importance of abide by international humanitarian law . the world have watch in horror as humanitarian aid have be block from reach Gaza , lead to a famine that be claim the life of those who survive the bomb . meanwhile , in the west bank , the israeli Government turn a blind eye to rampant settler violence and openly approve new settlement that could end the very possibility of a two - state solution . can the Foreign Secretary assure the House that he be do everything he can , not only to end the mass killing but to secure a last peace between two equal state in Israel and Palestine ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue . the confirmation of famine be utterly horrifying . I be appal by the shocking level of settler violence , and I have be clear that Israel must clamp down on that violence . the Government have introduce three round of sanction relate to settler violence , include the July sanction on Ben - Gvir and Smotrich for the incitement of violence against palestinian community . the only way to deliver long - term peace and security for Palestinians and Israelis alike be through a viable two - state solution . the remain hostage in Gaza — those who be still alive — be be starve , persecute and prevent from get any form of medical aid . when the Foreign Secretary visit the region , will he force the International Red Cross to seek the hostage and ensure that they be give the medical attention they need ? the hon . Gentleman have always bring the issue of hostage to mind in this House , and I applaud he for that work . I meet with hostage family just before the summer recess , and I will again in the come week . the recent photo show hostage malnourish and starve be obscene , and I will do all I can to ensure that they get the aid and support that they need , underground in those tunnel . it be clear that the state war goal of many element of the israeli Government be not a ceasefire and a last peace between two community live side by side in peace , but ethnically cleanse Gaza and prevent a viable state in the west bank . will the Secretary of State therefore commit to sanction the head of the israeli Government , Benjamin Netanyahu ? the hon . Gentleman should look closely at the three package of sanction that we have have since come to office . he will see that there be no other country in the world with the range of sanction against those who incite in particular settler violence and expansion . Israel have breach two ceasefire to date . its bombing , its killing and now its starvation have continue for month . it be not just the hostage who be not get food ; it be also baby , child , woman and man . the impunity that Israel have to continue to perpetrate war crime after war crime , atrocity after atrocity — when will the UK and the international community say enough be enough and take real action to put an end to the killing and to help the hostage be free ? it be not enough to assert it or say it . that be why we restore funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency . that be why we have have three package of sanction . that be why yesterday I announce an extra £ 15 million of aid . that be why I have speak to my israeli counterpart nearly every week — certainly every month — that I have be in office . it be why we have corral the international community with the statement we have make . it be not about word ; it be about action to bring this to an end . the Secretary of State be very clear yesterday that if we want peace , we must ensure that the hostage be release . if we want peace , we must ensure that Hamas be oust from Gaza . if that happen , we will have a peace that will last . I know that he be committed to that , for he say so yesterday , but will he reiterate that for the Chamber and those who be here ? the hon . Gentleman know a lot about stand up to terrorist . Hamas be a proscribe organisation . there can be no role for Hamas . we need the total demilitarisation of Gaza . those leader who be there must leave and exit the country so that the palestinian people can be free from the plight of what Hamas be rain down on they . recognition of a palestinian State what discussion he have have with his international counterpart on the recognition of a palestinian state . we have be clear that we will recognise a palestinian state by the United Nations General Assembly in September to protect the viability of the two - state solution , unless the israeli Government take substantive step to end the appalling situation in Gaza and commit to a long - term sustainable peace . the United Kingdom Government should never have place condition on the recognition of the state of Palestine — there be no place for it in international law . however , give that it be clear that Israel have fail to comply with these condition , can the Secretary of State confirm that the UK will unconditionally and immediately recognise the state of Palestine at the UN General Assembly next week ? high - level week be not actually next week ; it be in three week ' time . may I say to the hon . Gentleman that it be most bizarre to say to a responsible Government that they should not attempt to change the situation on the ground to encourage Israel to commit to a ceasefire and to a process ? of course we should use all diplomatic effort to do that , notwithstanding what we say about the assessment we will make on recognition at the appropriate time . we all want to see an end to the suffering and progress towards a two - state solution , but what assurance can the Foreign Secretary provide that in the recognition of Palestine there can be no role for Hamas in the governance of a palestinian state ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue . let I be crystal clear . Hamas must never be reward , and we will not reward it by the UK ' s recognition of Palestine if we reach that point . our demand of Hamas be absolute and unchanged : it must immediately release all the hostage who be cruelly take on 7 October 2023 and hold in the most atrocious condition , which we have already discuss in the Chamber this morning . russia : Economic Sanctions what step his Department be take to increase economic sanction on Russia . until Putin stop his barbaric assault , we will keep tighten the screw on his war machine with even more sanction . since come to office we have sanction more than 680 individual entity and ship , more than double the number of designation make in 2023 . Vladimir Putin be in Beijing this week , where he have hail the unprecedented level of tie between China and Russia . for once I hope that the Government will actually take he at his word before China build the super - embassy in our capital . China have cease export of drone component to Ukraine , and both Xi Jinping and Kim Jong Un be prop up Putin economically . I commend the Prime Minister for unite a coalition of the willing , but what tangible action be it take to ensure that Ukraine win against three adversary ? I think that one of our proud moment be watch President Zelensky walk up the step of no 10 , and reflect on the role that the Prime Minister have play in corral the global community around the coalition of the willing . the hon . Gentleman will have see the Prime Minister with President Zelensky again in Washington DC just a few week ago . in all that we be do — on the oil price cap , in raise the issue of russian sovereign asset with our G7 and european partner to try to resolve that issue , and through sanction — we be lead the world . may I join colleague in send my warm congratulation to the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , on his recent nuptial ? over the summer recess , report emerge that the Russians have launch an online " catalogue " of the child whom they have steal from Ukraine . this grotesque database allow russian family to search for ukrainian child by hair and eye colour . the Russians be advertise their war crime in real time . what further action be the Government take on this issue , and can the Foreign Secretary assure I that it will be the high priority in discussion with the President of the United States during his visit later this month ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue once again . it be absolutely a stand item on the agenda with our friend in the United States , and of course we discuss these issue with our friend in Ukraine . very shortly , my hon . friend will see a further announcement in relation to this terrible atrocity . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . as Ukraine pass the grim milestone of its fourth independence day since Putin begin his barbaric invasion , we have see nothing but sustain aerial assault and brutality from Putin . may I ask the Foreign Secretary directly what he will do to redouble his effort in relation to sanction — specific sanction on those who be profiteer and make money from russian oil ? that be effectively what be fuel Putin ' s war machine and his barbaric assault on democracy . I be grateful for the cross - party support in the Chamber on the issue of Ukraine . we have do a lot to lower the oil price cap , which I think have be essential . we , alongside the last government , have the large package of sanction anywhere in the world against Putin ' s war machine . I can not comment from the Dispatch Box on further sanction , but the right hon . Lady will see an announcement very shortly . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . yesterday I update the House on the unimaginably bleak situation in Gaza and the occupied Palestinian Territories . I share the late on Iran ' s dangerous nuclear programme , and my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary set out Britain ' s unwavere support for Ukraine . may I also mention the tragic earthquake in Kunar province in Afghanistan ? we have announce a package of support for those who have be kill . the Foreign Secretary want to pay a huge amount of taxpayer ' money to Mauritius to lease back a military base that we already own . why be he afraid of hold a vote on this policy ? I know that the hon . Gentleman have not be in Parliament very long , but he will see that there be a second reading next week , and of course there will be a vote . for Palestinians , if suffer decade of oppression and apartheid , thousand be kill , and million confine in an ever - reduce area as their home be steal and community be destroy be not bad enough , now the american President be devise a plan to carve up what be leave of palestinian territory for prime real estate . will the Foreign Secretary categorically say at the Dispatch Box today that under no circumstance will the UK support this reprehensible plan to ethnically cleanse Palestine and create a " Gaza Riviera " , a " Trump Gaza " or whatever this grotesque plan be ? I say to my hon . friend that we have be clear right throughout this crisis that palestinian territory must not be reduce in the conduct of this war , and we do not support the forced displacement of people . palestinian civilian must be permit to return to their community and rebuild their life . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . the Joint Committee on Human Rights ' recent report into transnational repression recommend that China be place on the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme , alongside Iran and Russia . clearly , this follow concern follow the China audit and the national security strategy , so I have a very specific question for the Foreign Secretary : when will he recognise that China be a threat to our national security and put it on the enhance tier of FIRS ? the right hon . Lady and I exchange debate when we publish the China audit . there be discussion at the national security strategy , and the Defence Secretary also set out his concern about chinese activity in the South China sea in the defence strategy . there have be a lot of debate and discussion in relation to China , and I have be very clear that there be area where we will co - operate , but we will always challenge where we must . on 7 August , I write to the Foreign Secretary about the deadly sectarian violence that we have witness in Syria , which threaten further destabilisation and fallout that we all know could come soon . while I have not receive a response , I do specifically ask in that letter whether he would call for justice and accountability for those responsible for the recent killing — the report be very shocking . do he agree that there could be a role for the Commission for International Justice and Accountability , which I understand the Minister for the Middle East meet and praise in Damascus just last week ? I be very grateful to the right hon . Lady for raise this issue . it be important for I to look into the eye of al - Sharaa when I be in Syria , and the Minister for the Middle East be also in Syria very recently . I have be concern about the increase in terrorist activity and about the position of minority , and of course we continue to discuss this with the Syrians . we be also worried about those in the neighbourhood , like Israel , as some of the activity be destabilising what be go on , and of course I will look at the issue that she raise . my constituent Lee and Joanna Woodcock ' s daughter Holly be find deceased in France in August last year . they have raise significant concern regard the investigation by the french authority , and some less concern regard the support they have receive from the fcdo . will the Minister meet Mr and Mrs Woodcock to hear directly about their experience ? first , I express my deep condolence over Holly ' s death . I know this be a very distressing time for Mr and Mrs Woodcock and the whole family . my hon . friend will know about the consular support that be be provide , as we have speak about that . I would , of course , be very happy to meet he and the Woodcock family to discuss the matter far , although he will understand that I can not get directly involve in overseas investigation by authority in France . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Business Secretary be due to travel to China next week to restart trade talk . his trip will fall 50 day after Beijing announce its late round of extraterritorial bounty , target 19 pro - democracy Hongkongers , include several more UK - base activist . in an early answer , the Minister lay out the many step to sanction the Georgian Government for their assault on democracy . will the Foreign Secretary implore the Business Secretary to cancel his trip and press for a block on all UK ministerial visit to China until Beijing rescind those bounty ? in June , the Minister for Security , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley North ( Dan Jarvis ) , and I meet the UK activist target by the Hong Kong arrest warrant and bounty . we have raise concern regard the arrest warrant and bounty directly with the chinese ambassador here in London , reaffirm that the safety and security of Hongkongers in the UK be of the utmost importance to the Government . the matter be be raise at all level — by Ministers and by the Foreign Secretary , and will indeed be raise , if there be such an occasion in the future , leader to leader . I share the anguish and profound distress of my constituent over the conflict in Gaza . many of they have friend and family in the region ; they be live with that torment every day . the Minister will have see hundred of thousand of israeli citizen march for a release of the hostage and for a ceasefire . what be the UK Government do to support those citizen and the opposition party in Israel , who be be so let down ? I thank my hon . friend for her sustained engagement in these issue . as the Foreign Secretary have say , we talk regularly to hostage family in Israel and to participant in israeli politic right across the spectrum , and we will continue to do so . we make our disagreement with the israeli Government clear , both in private and in public , and we will continue to do that , too . on 23 July , my constituent Dr Lindsey Fitzharris , a naturalise british citizen who be undergo cancer treatment , be deny board her flight home to the UK from the US , a journey she have make numerous time without trouble . she be tell to contact the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office for an emergency travel document , but it take three week — include intervention by I — to get her home for treatment . how can it have take three week in an emergency to do so ? will the Department apologise to Dr Fitzharris and investigate the matter fully ? the Foreign Office seek in its consular assistance to always provide timely support to british national overseas . I will investigate the case and report back to the hon . Lady . this week , the International Association of Genocide Scholars pass a resolution conclude that Israel ' s conduct meet the legal definition of genocide , as lay out in the UN convention , note in particular the killing and injuring of 50 , 000 palestinian child . what assessment do the Foreign Secretary make of this resolution , and do he agree that we must go far to ensure accountability for these crime and justice for the palestinian people ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her work on these matter . we have see those report ; the Foreign Secretary refer to they in the House yesterday afternoon . as I say early , the threshold that the Government must test against be the one we outline in September , which be about the real risk . we have find that there be a real risk , and our action have flow from that determination . it have be more than a fortnight since the Alaska summit , and the deadline set by President Trump at that time have now pass . what diplomatic effort be the Government make to maintain US focus on the ukrainian theatre of operation in the face of russian intransigence ? I assure the hon . Gentleman that our National Security Adviser and I be in direct touch with the Ukrainians on these issue , and the Chief of the Defence Staff be in Washington last week follow up on these matter . I think we be all grateful to Tony Radakin , who leave today after 35 year of service to our country , for the work he be do . of course , the Defence Secretary be also co - ordinating via the coalition of the willing . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement yesterday and the Government ' s commitment to recognise the state of Palestine later this month , but with the attack on the Nasser hospital last week and over 119 child now have die due to starvation , what further step be we take to evacuate the most vulnerable ? furthermore , while stack of aid be unable to get through to Gaza , be the Foreign Secretary keep under review the use of further sanction to put great pressure on Israel to end the blockade of this life - sustain provision ? my hon . friend have long advocate these question . I pay tribute to the work of save the Children and other UK non - governmental organisation that have continue to do dangerous and lifesave work in Gaza . I meet many of they over the recess . there be a number of restriction in place in relation not simply to the passage of aid into Gaza , which we have discuss in this House a number of time , but to the function of the NGOs themselves . we keep a very close interest in this and have raise it with the israeli Government . my constituent who have flee Hong Kong be deeply worried about the silencing of democratic voice there and the uncertainty that the propose change to indefinite leave to remain create for their long - term security here in the UK . what step be the Government take to hold to account those responsible for the erosion of Hong Kong ' s freedom and to give reassurance to Hongkongers who have seek refuge here ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this important matter on behalf of her constituent . I can reassure she that the UK Government have call on Beijing numerous time to repeal the national security law , which provide for the autocratic treatment of people abroad , such as her constituent . we continue to work closely with the Minister for Border Security and Asylum to ensure that anyone here in the UK be safe and that their family in Hong Kong be also safe . give that the UK be the penholder for Yemen , will the Minister explain why the Government continue to support Israel when it have admit to the killing of Yemen ' s Prime Minister and other Ministers and be cause widespread devastation ? what step have the Government take to support Yemen in achieve peace , reconstruction and development , and in end the humanitarian crisis ? Mr Speaker , as there have be a number of different report on this , let I clarify that we believe that it be the Houthi Prime Minister , rather than the yemeni Prime Minister , who have recently be strike . the Houthis , as the House know , be a threat not just to the people of Yemen and to the region , but to international shipping . I have engage closely with the yemeni Government , include with both the previous yemeni Prime Minister and the current yemeni Prime Minister , who I be happy to report be still alive . I call the Father of the House . do the Foreign Secretary agree that one of the bad aspect of the action of the israeli authority be the continual stripping away of the dignity of the palestinian people in Jerusalem and the west bank ? only last week , the Greek Orthodox patriarch learn that , for the first time in history , israeli authority launch a property tax on Greek Orthodox church . there be international outrage at the freezing of bank account . that have make a difference . can this House and this Government stick up for the right of the palestinian people ? not even the Ottomans try to impose a church tax . I be grateful to the Father of the House for bring to mind the situation in the west bank . of course it be important that Israel have its full security , but the violence , the expansion , the denial of fund and the chilling effect on civil society be all of huge concern , which be why we fund and support organisation on the ground and work with civil society . we be at a pivotal point in our defence procurement . be the Minister engage with ally like Morocco to use defence export as a way to bolster trade relation ? my hon . friend have extensive experience in defence and I be grateful to he for his question . during the UK - Morocco strategic dialogue in June , both side agree to deepen our defence industrial co - operation . I be glad that two memorandum of understanding between the UK and Morocco have since be sign thank to the work of the Foreign Secretary . it have now be some week since President Trump invite the leader of the Russian Federation to the United States of America . since then , Putin have increase his assault on the civilian population of Ukraine and show no sign whatsoever of reach the ceasefire that be desire , so Trump ' s initiative have fail . will the Foreign Secretary use his visit to the United Nations next week to call again for real United States sanction on Russia ? we applaud President Trump ' s effort to bring about a sustained and sustainable peace , and there be detailed discussion go on about security guarantee and what role the United States may play as a result of the summit , but our assessment be that Putin be not up to seriously negotiate . we condemn the killing and the loss of life that have continue , and the injuring of a security guard at the British Council . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . we need to recognise that , due to climate change , conflict and population growth , forced and economic migration be only go to increase . my Committee will shortly publish a report on displace people , cover both the driver and possible solution . I note with concern that Jordan — a country that house many refugee — be receive a 35 % cut this year . will the Foreign Secretary outline his strategy to keep people safe and economically viable in their own or host country , and how that can be achieve with a dramatically reduce ODA budget ? I be very grateful for the work that my hon . friend continue to do on her Select Committee to champion the cause of people across the world who be suffer . she will be pleased that climate remain a priority , notwithstanding the change that we have have to make in our development spend . we recognise that climate often drive migration route , so our very important upstream work have to continue . give communist China ' s predictable support for the killer in the Kremlin ' s campaign of murder and mayhem in Ukraine , why be the Government reward China with a super - embassy in London ? there be no reward . the right hon . Gentleman will recognise that this be a quasi - judicial process that must be approach properly . under the Geneva convention , all country be entitle to an embassy . first , I pay tribute to my constituent Anne Strike for her constant campaigning for the eradication of polio . sadly , we have see case of polio in warzone like Gaza . what be the Foreign Secretary do to ensure that we eradicate this disease once and for all ? I thank my hon . friend for his important question ; polio be an issue not just in Gaza but in Afghanistan and Pakistan . eradication be vital , and we be commit to an eradication campaign . we have help 600 , 000 child and we will continue to work on this vital question , include in my region . the Secretary of State reiterate the issue of the conditional recognition of the state of Palestine . if the Government want to do that , would it not be well equally to make it a condition that any future state of Palestine do not threaten the right of the state of Israel to exist , and that if anyone carry out terrorist action from any future state , they will be hand over to the international authority ? there have be important commitment about the future nature of any palestinian state , include from President Abbas , who say that any such state would be demilitarise . there be absolute clarity in New York — where we make the announcement about the recognition decision — that Hamas can have no future role in Gaza and that a future palestinian state must pose no threat to an israeli state . two state require two state live in safety and security and pose no threat to each other . I welcome the sanction that the Government have put in place on the israeli Government , as in their current form they be not a reliable or trust partner . have the Foreign Secretary order a review of the UK ' s relationship with the israeli Government over the last 13 month ? if not , why not ? I set out the detail of the sanction to which my hon . friend refer , and the Foreign Secretary have announce a review of some of the element of our bilateral co - operation with Israel , include a number of step in relation to free trade agreement and so on . I be grateful for the leadership that the Foreign Secretary and the Minister for the Middle East show over the summer in their visit to Syria and in engage with the syrian Government , especially on the violence that take place in Suwayda . as UK special envoy for freedom of religion or belief , I be particularly worried to see that the violence especially affect the Druze and christian minority in that country . what more can we do to work with the syrian Government to ensure that they protect all their citizen , regardless of their religion ? my hon . Friend ask a vital question , which I raise directly with the syrian Minister of Justice and the syrian Foreign Minister last week . the violence — in coastal region , target Alawites , and in Suwayda in the south , target Druze and other — be deeply concern . the Syrians have conduct an investigation relatively independently in relation to the violence at the coast . I call on they , as the Foreign Secretary have do before , to do everything they can to ensure that minority in the new Syria feel safe and protect by the syrian Government . despite the strategic dialogue refer to by the Foreign Secretary , the Government have decide to veto the UK - Morocco power project , so what be they do in practical term to maintain the momentum in our relationship create by the association agreement sign with Morocco in 2019 ? there be no veto . it be right that the Government look at all project through a value - for - money lens . I be very pleased to be in Morocco , I remain engaged with its Foreign Minister , and I will build on that strategic visit . there be much to do over the come month . I be pleased to read that the Government be finally take step to rejoin the Erasmus + programme — something for which the Liberal Democrats have be call for some time . will the Minister now set out a timetable mandate and expect term for UK reassociation with that programme ? I do not want to go into the detail . we be involve in many different discussion with the European Union follow our historic summit on 19 May . I attend the Gymnich with Foreign Ministers in Denmark last weekend . we be progress this alongside the Paymaster General and Minister for the Cabinet Office , and we will provide detail in due course . save the Children report that 61 % of pregnant woman and new mother in Gaza be malnourish in early August : a sharp rise link to the blockade and health system collapse . will the Government consider enable the medical transfer of pregnant woman need specialist care to the UK and outline their strategy for support Gaza ' s long - term recovery , stability and maternity health ? these child be the future of the two - state solution . my hon . friend be right , as be my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , to raise the fate of pregnant woman in Gaza , and indeed of those who have recently give birth . I be happy to meet she to discuss these issue in great detail . Speciality Steel UK : Insolvency I would like to make a statement regard the insolvency of Speciality Steel UK Ltd , which be part of the Liberty Steel Group . hon . member will have see that the High Court grant a compulsory winding - up order against Liberty Speciality Steels on 21 August , and the company have now enter liquidation . first and foremost , let I say this : the Government stand with the affected steelworker in Rotherham , in Sheffield and in Wednesbury . we stand with their family and the community , who will undoubtedly be worry at this difficult time . I would like to reassure they and all those employ by Liberty Speciality Steels that we be stand by with our rapid response team to give immediate support on the ground if require , that we be work with the trade union and the South Yorkshire Mayor , and that we be work with the council and hon . member from affected constituency to offer all the help we can . I also want to stress that there will be no immediate change to the current operation of the business , include to employee ' job . follow the appointment of special manager , the company ' s site have be secure and employee payroll process within 24 hour . other Liberty Steel company outside Speciality Steel , such as Liberty Dalzell and Liberty Hartlepool , be not affect by this action . follow the company ' s liquidation , the official receiver have be appoint as liquidator by the court . hon . member will know that the official receiver operate independently of Government , with a statutory duty to act in the good interest of creditor . yesterday , I lay a departmental minute notify the House of the contingent liability associate with this intervention . I regret that , due to the liquidation take place during recess , we have not be able to follow the usual notice period of 14 parliamentary sitting day . however , a copy of the departmental minute will be place in the Libraries of both Houses . in addition , the Government have agree to fund for the official receiver , who will now stabilise operation . the official receiver will gather company information and report to we on the likely next step , include option for the company ' s business and site . the total cost will depend on market condition and the strategy adopt by the official receiver . however , that will be subject to close scrutiny by my Department and the Insolvency Service . as the House will be aware , the company have face severe financial and operational difficulty since 2021 . Liberty Speciality Steels have fail to file account for over six year — a failure that have lead to a separate prosecution by Companies House of its parent company . I be sure that the official receiver will want to gain a well understanding of the company ' s business and the conduct of its director lead up to the liquidation . I also inform the House that the director of the company be currently under investigation by the Serious Fraud Office for suspect fraud , fraudulent trading and money laundering . give that , I be sure hon . member will agree that it would have be wholly inappropriate for the Government to enter into commercial arrangement with the company . this government will always take difficult decision when they be in the national interest . that be why , in April , we act to prevent the pre - emptive closure of the blast furnace at British Steel in Scunthorpe . in the case of Liberty Steel , the lack of transparency , the legal and financial risk and the complete absence of reliable corporate information mean we have no credible route to act before insolvency . it be worth note that Liberty Speciality Steels use electric arc furnace technology that can be power up or down as need — although it should be note that those furnace have not be operate since July of last year . that be the situation this Government inherit . the circumstance in Scunthorpe be fundamentally different . British Steel operate the UK ' s last remain blast furnace — asset that , once shut down , can not simply be restart . allow those blast furnace to be close pre - emptively would have remove our ability to make strategic choice about the future of steelmaking in Scunthorpe , and that be not a position this Government be prepared to accept . Scunthorpe be therefore a truly exceptional situation and that be why we take the unprecedented step of implement the Steel Industry ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 to maintain the safe operation of the blast furnace . the situation with Liberty Speciality Steels be not comparable . the company be issue with a wind - up order by the High Court due to longstanding financial issue . spend taxpayer ' money on a company operate in such a way would have expose taxpayer to hundred of million — potentially billion — of pound in hide cost . with all that say , I very much believe that the steelmaking site in Rotherham , Stocksbridge , Brinsworth and Wednesbury have a future . I be keen to see they return to production , but that have to be achieve through private investment by an owner who can invest in the workforce and in the future of the business so that they put it on a long - term , sustainable footing . we know that the business environment have not be good enough for the UK ' s steel industry , which be why we have already make substantial change to secure a strong future for it . I will say more about the step that we have take shortly . in the case of Liberty Speciality Steels , it go without say that the company ' s hardworke employee be key to turn the site around . their skill and expertise will be essential in deliver that bright future . however , in its current state , produce only minimal volume of steel and with many employee still on furlough , we know that some tough choice lie ahead . it be now for the official receiver to determine the next step in the insolvency process . but let I be clear : this Government will stand by this workforce and do all we can to support they through this period of uncertainty . despite the challenge face the steel sector today after year of neglect under the previous Government , we believe that this industry will bounce back and grow strong tomorrow . this government be do everything we can to make that happen . we be press ahead with a bold steel strategy for the UK , set to be publish later this year . that strategy will set out our vision for a competitive , decarbonised and resilient domestic steel industry . our approach be clear : we want the UK steel sector to thrive , with strong private investment and commercially sustainable operation at its core . under our new industrial strategy , we have already announce some major policy change to increase the future viability of the steel industry . we be reduce electricity cost for steel producer by increase network charge discount through the supercharger from 60 % to 90 % . we be change Government procurement rule via the publication of a new steel public procurement notice to ensure that UK - make steel be consider for all public project . we be also strengthen current steel safeguard measure , ensure that UK steel producer will not be undercut while still ensure that the UK have a steady and reliable supply . hon . member will know that we have also secure a much - improve deal for the worker of Port Talbot — something the opposition repeatedly say could never be achieve — and we deliver it alongside a £ 500 million grant to support the transition to low - carbon electric arc furnace production . I be proud to attend the groundbreaking event for this in July with the chair of Tata Group . we will continue to work hand in hand with this vital british industry to ensure its long - term success . let there be no doubt that , for Liberty Speciality Steels , we will pursue every option to keep steelmaking in Rotherham , Sheffield , South Yorkshire and the west midland . we will offer all possible support to the independent official receiver on the all - important next phase , and we will continue to work with hon . member across the House to ensure that the UK remain a proud steelmaking country now and for many year to come . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to the Minister for give I advance sight of her statement today , but here we be again : another day , another Government takeover of a key british manufacturing plant , another 1 , 500 job — 1 , 500 people — face an incredibly uncertain future , and the prospect of significant job loss alongside the wide economic impact across supply chain and in aerospace , defence and power generation that would result from the collapse of this specialist steelwork . despite so many warm word about the steel industry , despite so many labour promise to the people who have work their whole life in that industry , and despite the impression of superiority while in opposition , this Labour Government be fail british industry . they be fail to provide certainty of policy and the economic growth that they say be their central mission , and they be fail to get a grip on the issue that affect thousand of work people ' s life . the Minister say she want to provide certainty to the steel industry and the people who work in it . she say that we can expect a bold steel strategy for the UK , but where be it ? the Government be not new any more ; they have be in power for a year now , and there be still no clarity on this supposedly bold strategy . the british steel industry face a fierce dual set of pressure : new 25 % US tariff and continue high energy cost . we all know that the energy cost in this country be too high , yet they have be drive only high by this Government ' s ideological obsession with prioritise decarbonisation over economic growth . back in May , Liberty Steel warn that it face significant challenge due to soar energy cost , but instead of focus on tackle the underlie cause of expensive energy , the Energy Secretary be back windmill while leave Britain ' s oil and gas industry in the doldrum . he be leave our amazing british oil and gas — our great energy source — trap under the North sea . this be economic illiteracy aim at satisfy their own green obsession . from steel to chemical to car , builder and maker across Britain be pay the price of this Government ' s socialist green agenda , and it be their worker and investor who will lose out . on tariff , despite the economic prosperity deal agree by the Prime Minister and President Trump , the agreement ' s provision lower US tariff on UK - produce steel and steel derivative product have still not come into effect . the Government have repeatedly avoid answer question in this House on when the agreement will come into effect . we hear no mention whatsoever of it in the statement today or in the note yesterday , so I ask again : when will the provision lower US tariff on UK steel come into effect ? of course , even if those provision do eventually come to fruition , steelworker should beware of this Government , who have overpromise and under - deliver before , with devastating impact for worker . just look at Jaguar Land Rover . the Prime Minister look worker dead in the eye and promise that he would protect their industry and save their job . he then use those worker as a labour propaganda photo opportunity across television and the front page when the UK - US deal be announce , but little over two month later , Jaguar Land Rover announce it be cut 500 job . the very same worker who be promise everything by the Prime Minister be leave out in the cold by this Labour Government ' s inability to secure a well trading relationship with our close ally . let we today try to get some clarity on what exactly this Minister have do and will do for the british worker impact at Liberty Steel . first , she announce that the Government have agree to fund the official receiver and that total — order — [ interruption . ] no , it ' s no use nod at I . I have not go over time ; it be the shadow Minister himself . I be sure he be now come to a conclusion . I be , Mr Speaker . although I have lot of question , I will ask just two very quick one , if that be okay . you must ask they now , otherwise I be go to stop you . I will , Mr Speaker . what be the budget for the official receiver ? the Minister have not lay out any cost . she have say that it be relate to market condition but have not set out any estimate . she know that the Treasury will have approve estimate , so please will she set those out ? the Government have make the National Wealth Fund allocate £ 2 . 5 billion to British Steel . can she assure we that they will follow the investment allocation that assure its operational independence — order . please , it be not acceptable on either side of the House to take advantage of the Back Benchers who want to get in . you have a set amount of time . if the Minister can stick to it , I expect the shadow Minister to do so . if the Minister go over time , I do then grant time the other way . please do not do this again . let we come to the Chair of the Select Committee . thank you very much , Mr Speaker — Order . the Minister need to respond . it ' s be that long that I have forget . thank you , Mr Speaker . I shall just explain to the shadow Minister how the system work . the Government have not take over control . that be not the process of the official receiver . the official receiver be appoint follow a court case which begin in 2024 . it have be a very long and arduous case . the hon . Gentleman will hopefully understand that I can not set out the cost of the official receiver at this point because the official receiver have only just begin his work . it be very early day and we can not be specific . we know the number will be in the million , as oppose to anything more substantial , because the company be not operate in and of itself . what we be do be ensure that the salary be pay , which I hope the whole House would agree be the right thing to do . company will be come forward and express an interest in buy part of the company , and it will be for the official receiver to look at that and see what process we should go through , but I can not give the hon . Gentleman the actual number on that . I hope the whole House will understand why not . on the shadow Minister ' s wide point , if this Government have not intervene , thousand of people would have lose their livelihood in Scunthorpe ; that be a fact . if this Government have not intervene , we would not have have a well deal for the worker in Port Talbot , we would not have be there support they in the transition , and we would not be there support the building of the electric arc furnace , which begin back in July . the shadow Minister ask what this Government have already do . we have already change the rule on procurement . I have work closely with colleague in the Cabinet Office on that to ensure that where Government be spend money , we be spend on british business where we can — something his government fail to do . on energy price , we have commit to lower price through the reduction in cost that will come from the expansion of the super - charger — something his government fail to do . we be work on a bold strategy , which we will publish this year , that will build on that . whether on trade protection — on which we have already take measure — our scrap policy , R & D , job , apprenticeship or skill , we will have a bold strategy because we believe in steel , unlike the previous Government , who say that manufacturing be a victorian pursuit well leave to the Chinese . we do not agree with that approach . I will try again : I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I congratulate the Minister on save Britain ' s real engineering from year of financial engineering which be not in the good interest of this country and be more in the interest of the self - enrichment of the people behind it . the question for we today , though , be what step the Government will now take to ensure and safeguard a grow , thrive industry . will the Minister reassure the House that she will use we on the Committee to oversee the liability that the Department have take on ? crucially , will she set out when she expect those low energy cost to kick in , when she expect the tariff barrier in the United States to come down , and when she will tie together the steel strategy , which I hope she will publish as soon as possible , for the House to debate ? I thank my right hon . friend for those helpful question . he remind I that the shadow Minister have ask about the US . of course , we be in a position where the world have tariff of 50 % on steel and aluminium ; we have 25 % . we be work with our US counterpart to reach a conclusion to those negotiation . my right hon . friend will know that the President be due to come to the UK and , of course , we will be do all we can to get that negotiation conclude at pace . my right hon . Friend ask about energy cost . we be seek to ensure that there be a viable steel industry into the future and that those company currently talk to the official receiver about want to take over and invest in Liberty can do so in a way that will make they money . on the charge we be reduce — the 60 % to 90 % super - charger extension for network charge relief — to give an example , it will mean about £ 4 to £ 5 relief per tonne of steel produce . we know that Liberty be not produce what it can at the moment , but two or three year ago it would have be produce about 300 tonne of steel per year , so it would have save up to £ 1 . 5 million on its energy cost . that be a substantial reduction and something that I be sure he will welcome . on the liability , of course we want to be as honest , open and transparent with the House as we possibly can . a lot of the liability be with the creditor at the moment . we want to come to the House as soon as we can to ensure that we be set out the cost that we incur . my right hon . friend be right that the steel strategy this year need to be bold , and we will of course look to the work that his Committee have do to help we in that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . may I start by associate the Liberal Democrats with the Minister ' s remark in support of the employee , family and community who be affect by this late development ? we welcome the Minister ' s come to the House today to provide some clarity . steel be a sector of huge strategic importance for our country . it provide vital material for our national infrastructure , from defence to renewable energy , and it create thousand of job across the UK . the neglect of the steel industry in recent year be just another part of the previous Government ' s disastrous legacy . with Putin ' s barbaric war in Europe and Donald Trump ' s damage tariff cause economic turmoil , secure the future of steel production in this country be more important than ever . that be why the Liberal Democrats firmly believe that nothing should be off the table in support this critical sector . for too long , our steel industry have be neglect . the Conservative Government oversee a string of near collapse and last - minute deal . they scrap the industrial strategy , which be so vital to our manufacturer , and put in place new trade barrier , which constrain our exporter . in the light of this late insolvency , will the Minister set out what action the Government be take to set our steel industry on a truly sustainable footing ? what reassurance can the Government provide that job loss can be avoid in the future ? what progress have be make in bring down industrial electricity price through the measure announce in the industrial strategy ? what be the Government do to press President Trump to finally drop his damaging 25 % tariff on our steel export ? finally , what step be the Government take to treat steel as the nationally strategic asset that it be , ensure that more british - make steel be use to power our national infrastructure and other major project here in the UK ? I thank the hon . Lady for her remark . she be right to ask about how we ensure that this nationally strategic asset be protect , and we be do that . I have just set out the reduction in energy price that the steel industry as a whole will benefit from — extend the super - charger from 60 % to 90 % to give network charge relief , which will bring significantly low cost for energy price for our steel industry . we be prioritise the procurement of british steel where the Government be spend money , because we believe that that be the right thing to do . we have already introduce protection for steel trading , and we be ensure that we do everything we can , talk to our US counterpart all the time , about reach a conclusion on the negotiation on the steel tariff . I be optimistic about those conversation . of course , I speak to official and other Ministers , and to the steel industry , about these issue all the time . we be lucky to have the Steel Council that we put together — trade union , industry and other who be help we to develop what we think will be an ambitious steel strategy that will ensure that the steel industry will not decline . the strategy will ensure that we will not be in the position we be currently in , where only 30 % of the steel we use in this country be make in this country , and that we will be in a position where we can protect those good , experienced job and those good people who we want to support and make sure the industry grow . you will be aware , Mr Speaker , that as long as I have be an MP , I have be come to this Chamber argue for support for Speciality Steel in my constituency . I politely say to the shadow Minister that the difference in response from this Government be night and day from what I have under the Conservatives . I personally thank the Minister , and the Secretary of State , for have such an open - door policy to I and my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) . I know the Minister be do everything she can to save this speciality business . one of the first action of the official receiver be to release approximately 30 apprentice who be due to start their training in the next few week . can the Minister reassure the House that the Government will not only commit to the business but acknowledge that it can survive only with its highly skilled , committed , professional staff and that she be as commit to they as she be to the business ? I thank my hon . friend for those remark ; they be gratefully receive , and we will continue to do all we can to support the steel industry . she be absolutely right that a number of apprentice be due to start this week , but the official receiver take the decision that , give that the 12 - month continuation of the apprenticeship could not be guarantee , it be right to try to find they other placement . I be take a close personal interest in what happen to those 50 people . I know the local authority and the Department for Education be try to ensure that we can find other place for they . I want to make sure that we can do so , because one of the thing this Government be passionate about be ensure that our young people have the apprenticeship to give they support for the job that we know we need into the future . the Minister be obviously incredibly committed to the steel industry , as we all be , but manufacturing will continue to struggle in this country when it pay energy price that be so much high than competitor in Germany and France . can the Minister assure the House that in a year ' s time , follow the Government strategy , manufacturer — whether ceramic or steel — will be pay the same amount for their industrial energy price as their german and french competitor ? the right hon . Gentleman make a good point . of course , our energy price be too high and it be difficult for company to compete . we be take action to address that , in the first instance by expand the super - charger , which will make a significant difference to industry that use significant amount of energy . we will also introduce an electricity scheme in 2027 — it be a complex process and will take time to bring in — mean that around 7 , 000 company across the country will also have significant reduction in their energy cost . we be take what we believe to be the right measure in our industrial strategy through those two intervention , to ensure that our energy cost come down and that we can be competitive among our european counterpart . liberty ' s Speciality Steels UK have fail its highly skilled worker . this ongoing situation have be deeply concern , so I be delighted that the Minister have offer her solidarity and the Government ' s support for the incredible workforce at the site in South Yorkshire . it be hugely positive — and a great contrast with the 14 year of Conservative Government — that this Government have step in and appoint an official receiver to protect the 1 , 400 - plus job at the two site , include Stocksbridge Speciality Steels in my constituency . the Secretary of State have acknowledge in this Chamber the strategic significance of those site to national security , and we must ensure that those business be support in fulfil their capability and have , as the Minister have recognise , a strong future . will she take adequate time to find a responsible buyer with the right deal , and during that time will worker be keep in employment with salary continue to be pay , while effort be make by she and the official receiver to resolve the outstanding pension issue ? my hon . friend and I have speak many time about this — she be such a champion for the industry , as be many colleague . she be right to point to the importance to the country of the work at Stocksbridge . of course , we will do what we need to do through the process of the official receiver to ensure that people get the salary that they need . for the past couple of year , so many of those people have be on furlough — we want to turn that around . we believe that this viable industry be languish unnecessarily . the Government will provide the right support through intervention such as our energy reduction measure , and work with the official receiver . I can tell she that multiple company be interested and come forward , and we need to establish how viable those offer be and what the good situation be . of course , the official receiver must think of the good outcome for the creditor , but we take a close interest in that . my hon . friend be right to point out the pension issue . I know that there be uncertainty . the official receiver and Teneo be consider these issue now to see exactly what have and have not be pay so that we can unpick the pension issue . this be the second crisis in the steel industry in the past year . it impact other commercially operate industry that be critical to our national security . in Lancashire , the failure to place an order for 25 Typhoon jet be risk thousand of job in the critical defence industry of BAE Systems . there be also a lack of join - up between Departments , which do not realise that the whole life - cycle of nuclear fuel manufacturing be equally critical for our national infrastructure and impact on hundred of highly skilled job in Lancashire at the Westinghouse Springfields site . will the Minister update I on her work with the Ministry of Defence to ensure that commercially operate industry that be critical to our national defence capability and security be strategically support to be sustainable in the future ? the hon . Gentleman be right to point out the importance of our defence industry and the need for we to support it . of course , the industrial strategy outline eight growth - drive sector that we believe can be turbocharge with Government support — defence be one of they . we have publish those sector plan , apart from the defence one , which will come shortly — he should look out for it . we have significantly increase funding for defence , which will lead to thousand of job across the UK . I will work closely with my colleague in defence , particularly the Minister for Defence Procurement and Industry , to ensure that we procure UK job where we can and support our industry to grow . first , I thank the Minister for her action — after 14 year of inaction by the Conservative party , it be a welcome change . Sheffield be synonymous with steel , particularly special steel , after Harry Brearley invent stainless steel in the city over 100 year ago . the Minister mention public procurement , and consideration be give — I think those be the word she use — to the purchase of british steel . may I ask she to be clear about what " consideration " mean ? I hope that it mean look not simply at the narrow issue of cost for a product , but at the wide benefit of purchase UK steel — benefit to the steel and engineering sector , as well as to the broad economy . will she assure we that when public procurement take place , those wide consideration will come into effect ? yes , within the parameter of what we can do legally , in term of subsidy . we be ensure , and the Cabinet Office be keen to ensure , that when we spend public money , we buy British . the value of that , and of british job around the country , be recognise in the contract that we pursue . my hon . friend talk about the importance of steel in his area . I have talk with colleague about develop a steel corridor , which I think be important . we be pursue that through the steel strategy . the Minister be right to come here today to make a statement on such an important part of the national infrastructure . it be just a shame that no Minister have ever make a statement in this House on Grangemouth . we have now learn that the Chancellor meet INEOS chair Jim Ratcliffe just three week ago — just three week before Petroineos Grangemouth close — but she do not do so much as raise the refinery with he . in her statement , the Minister say : " the Government stand with the affected steelworker in Rotherham , in Sheffield and in Wednesbury . we stand with their family " . that be quite right ; so do we in the SNP . but why have this Labour Government never stand with the worker of Grangemouth ? it be up to the Minister to answer that question if she want to , but the statement be about steel , rather than petroleum . thank you , Mr Speaker . I will just say that we have very much stand with the worker of Grangemouth . we be invest , through the National Wealth Fund , £ 200 million to support that development . I have have multiple conversation , and the hon . Gentleman and I have speak multiple time in this place , about how we will support industry in Grangemouth to transition and grow , and provide significant support to worker where they lose job . I fundamentally disagree with the picture that he paint . I thank the Minister for her action . steel remain a key part of the South Yorkshire industrial and economic strategy . can she reassure the House that worker ’ wage and livelihood will continue to be prioritise throughout the whole process , and will she join I in thank our hon . friend the Members for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) , and for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , for their work to champion not just the site in Stocksbridge and Rotherham , but the South Yorkshire steel corridor ? of course . I share that gratitude for those amazing colleague who stand up for what they know to be right and sensible . we be protect not something that be not worth protect , but something that have a vibrant and viable future ; that be what we be work towards . we be work closely with the South Yorkshire mayoral combine authority and the Mayor . in broad advanced manufacturing in the region , include the innovation district and research centre , there be a huge wealth of expertise and talent that we can build on . I be grateful to the Minister for the frankness of her statement . she say that the director of the company be under investigation for suspect fraud , fraudulent trading and money laundering . can she reassure the House that that will not in any way hold up the Government in take any remedial step that they need to take in support of the industry and its workforce ? for background knowledge , will she tell the House precisely what sort of specialism this plant offer , give that it name itself a Speciality Steel enterprise ? the right hon . Gentleman should perhaps go for a tour and see what the speciality be , but it be defence , aerospace and industrial engineering on the stocksbridge site . the Rotherham site have two electric arc furnace , which feed the stocksbridge site , and there be huge expertise there . there be a number of other site that feed various sector , such as the automotive industry , hydraulic and a whole range of other . there be a range of specialism . on the investigation , the official receiver will look at what be true and what be not , because there have not be any account publish for many year . they will establish what have happen . the Secretary of State have write to the Insolvency Service today to ask it to take special account of the Serious Fraud Office investigation , and to pass over any information it uncover to the Serious Fraud Office , so that it can do its work . I congratulate the Minister on the decision she have make in the last few week . we in Sheffield be very proud of our steel industry , and we want to resurrect it . we want people to be proud of the city , and to get into the same work that their grandparent do many year ago . constituent who have be in contact with I on the issue will be very relieved , follow the reassurance that the Minister have give , but if she could clarify the pension issue , that would offer even more reassurance . I be so proud to hear our Minister speak about steel , and I be quite disgusted at the way the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) , and other Conservative Members have try to pretend that they do not run down the steel industry . they never even have a steel strategy in all their year in office . they really ought to apologise for the absolute rubbish they be talk . I thank my hon . friend for point out the failing of the Opposition , which we all understand very well . on the pension issue , I recognise the concern that people will have . we have to let the official receiver get under the hood and work out what have be pay and what have not , because that be not clear . once we know , we will look into that and do what need to be do , but I do not want to say something on the subject until we know the reality . I congratulate the Minister and the Government on do the right thing in support our steel industry . I have be express concern about Liberty Steel since 2021 . this be a critical moment , and it will be interesting to see whether private sector investment can be attract into electric arc furnace , with electricity price where they be . I think there be a well solution , which I have speak about outside this House : merge Speciality Steel with British Steel to create a cohesive , excellent , strong champion of our steel industry that we all support into the future and invest in . that be the way to ensure economic growth in this country . the official receiver be independent . of course , we be very interested in this , and be keep in close touch with the receiver on what come out of this . the hon . member ' s idea be not necessarily foolish , on this occasion . this be a legal process , and the official receiver legally have to think of the creditor who have suffer throughout — we have to think of they as well , and make sure we do the right thing — but we will continue to do everything we can to make sure that there be a viable future , whatever form that take . like other , I very much appreciate the support be give today and the wide work be do on energy price , procurement and more . by complete contrast , the conservative party have no steel strategy , as my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough ( Gill Furniss ) say , and have a woeful record on steel over 14 year . however , market condition be particularly tough — a point make to I strongly by trade union representative at Llanwern steelwork over the summer — so will the Minister ensure that we support the steel industry as a whole , include Llanwern , and that Wales get its share of the green steel fund ? we talk before Parliament return about how we can support Llanwern and the work do there . my hon . friend be right that this be a difficult time for the steel industry . there be headwind that we need to address : we need to conclude the negotiation with our US counterpart and bring in energy price reduction , which will make a big difference , and we need the steel strategy . we be put all these thing in place . we believe that there be a great future for steel in south Wales , and we will continue to support it . british warship be make with a mixture of UK and non - UK steel . what impact will this announcement have on that mix , particularly for the Type 26 frigate programme , about which we have some good news early this week ? Navantia , which be build three ship , have recently enter into a contract to use Liberty ' s steel ; that relate to the Dalzell plant in Scotland , so it be unaffected by the announcement we have make today . of course , I work very closely with my colleague in the Ministry of Defence to ensure that we use British Steel where we can , and that we have the right infrastructure across the country , produce the right type of steel . we produce some type of steel for defence and not other , and some type of steel for shipping and not other . we need to do everything we can to protect british job and produce what we can here in the UK . it would have enhance the shadow Minister ' s response if he have at least acknowledge that this Government be literally pick up the piece after the chaotic dismemberment of the steel industry on the conservative party ' s watch . I have work at Stocksbridge and Rotherham , and I pay tribute to the workforce there — but also to the dedicated steel team in the Department , who I know will have be work long hour in support the Minister on this . the Government now own , control or fund three of the UK ' s six steel company . while a full merger of British Steel and Speciality Steel be one option , at the very least a review of all the asset under the Government ' s purview would be a good idea , to see whether we can create more sustainable , investable business and reintegrate some of the internal supply chain . would the Minister consider that ? I thank my hon . friend for his word , and particularly his thank to official in the Department , who be brilliant ; I work with they very closely , and they have not have many weekend throughout the whole steel process undertake by this Government . his expertise be very much welcome . we will continue to speak about this , as we do yesterday , and to use his expertise . of course , we need to look at the whole situation . he be right that the Government be now involve in a number of steel company , although we do not have ownership of any of they , and it be a different kind of involvement in different part of the country . we be review all that , and we want to see what the good mix be ; we will continue to take his advice on that . the Government have make direct intervention for steel job in Scunthorpe and now in Rotherham . that be no comfort for steelworker in Wales ; no similar measure be take to protect their job . can the Minister explain why her government will save job in Yorkshire and Lincolnshire , but will only help worker in Port Talbot to write cv and search for new job ? as the hon . Lady will know , one of the blast furnace have already close by the time we come into government . we have long conversation with Tata about a different model that we have hope it would pursue . we be unsuccessful with that . we have now improve the outcome and the support for that workforce , and I be very pleased to be at the first stage of the build of the electric arc furnace at Port Talbot in July , which will secure many thousand of job there . we will continue to support Port Talbot with the £ 500 million that we be invest . I thank the Minister for her statement , and for the decisive action this Government have take to safeguard steel job across the country . Liberty Pipes be deliver an important contract for the Government ' s landmark carbon capture , usage and storage project in our region . can the Minister provide assurance not only that those job in our region be unaffected , but that this project continue at pace ? Liberty Pipes be separate and be not part of this situation at all . of course , there will be concern in the wide group about the impact — I understand that — but at the moment , there be no crossover . Liberty Pipes will continue to do what it be do and , I be sure , will continue to support the CCUS industry , which be great news for the worker there , and great news for we . it be good news that Liberty Steel Dalzell in Scotland be not involve in this immediate crisis , but it be not shroud - wave to suggest that the difficulty in the wide industry may mean that one day it will become involved . when the overdue steel strategy arrive , will it be a 360 ° look at steel production as a whole , in every corner of this country ? will the Minister help scottish colleague get to the bottom of the Scottish Government ' s murky deal with this company , which mean that they be on the hook for potentially as much as £ 565 million , a quite incredible sum , which be deeply troubling ? the Scottish Government be use the devolution settlement to hide behind . what be go on there ? will she shine a torch of truth on that aspect of the steel industry ? as the hon . Gentleman know , Dalzell be a separate legal entity , so it be not affect , but he be right to worry about the overall situation and its possible impact on the company . I will look into the point he raise about the Scottish Government and Liberty . we be look at what the steel industry should look like across the whole of the UK ; the devolve government be involve in the steel strategy , as well as the union , the industry and other , so we be take a holistic view of the whole UK to see what we can do with steel . the Minister be right to state that the business environment have not be good for the UK steel industry . the main cause for that adverse environment , of course , have be high energy price — twice as high as those of european competitor and three time high than those of US competitor . give that the energy sector remind we daily that the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero intend to continue his manic obsession with net zero , which have cause the high energy price and this environment , how do the Minister hope to attract the private investment that she say be necessary to make the industry bounce back strong and to grow tomorrow ? industrial energy price double under the previous Government . the right hon . Gentleman know that the impact of the Ukraine war on our energy price highlight how we be reliant on the global oil and gas market . that be why we be push for clean energy by 2030 , to take we away from that reliance and to stop such a crisis happen again . I should point out that the crisis at Liberty be nothing to do with energy price — it operate electric arc furnace , so it be not anything do with carbon pricing or anything else the right hon . Gentleman might be refer to . he be right that energy price be too high , which be why we be intervene . we will see a significant reduction in electricity cost when we extend the industry super - charger from 60 % to 90 % . as I outlined early , in a scenario where Speciality Steel be produce what it be produce a couple of year ago , that will give it upwards of £ 1 . 5 million off its energy cost . that be a lot more than the previous Government ever do . UK manufacturing have be undervalue for far too long . one of the good way to support industry be to ensure that its cost base be as low as possible . will the Minister commit to the House that , in 12 month ' time , UK manufacturer will face low energy cost than today ? will she also rule out further national insurance increase ? UK manufacturing suffer under the previous Government , who have no strategy , do not really believe in it and allow thousand of job to be lose across a range of different industry . this government be take a fundamentally different approach : we have an industrial strategy under which we intervene directly to grow the industry of the future , include foundational industry such as steel , which be so important to we for many different reason . we be also introduce energy price reduction that , for company such as Liberty that use high level of energy , will mean significant reduction in their cost by next year . we be introduce an additional energy reduction for a wide group of up to 7 , 000 company , which by 2027 will also receive a significant reduction . again , that be something that the previous Government never do . I thank the Minister for her statement and for her commitment . on anything that I have ever have to speak to the hon . Lady about , she have always be willing to try to achieve something to give security for job , and I thank she for that personally . the fact that some 1 , 450 job be on the line be devastating not only for all the family concern , but for the subsidiary supply company and those that rely on high - quality steel for their manufacturing . in Northern Ireland , for example , that include Harland & Wolff , aerospace and the construction sector . for the future of steel , the sector must continue to win future contract for our industry . how can she provide certainty in these uncertain day ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word . he be right to point to the supply chain and the need for we to support not just the key industry , but the whole network of small and medium - sized company across the whole UK , not just in Northern Ireland . I be in Belfast a couple of week ago , and I be delighted to see at Harland & Wolff the building under way of the three ship that be part of the MOD contract with Navantia . I be also pleased to go to Spirit , give our good conversation with Boeing about the future of that site and what it could look like . I also meet lot of other part of the industry . advanced manufacturing in Northern Ireland be show the way in lot of new technology that we need to support . I will continue to support they . Group - base Child Sexual Exploitation and Abuse before I call the Minister , I remind hon . member that they should avoid refer to any active case that be currently before the court . I would like to update the House on the progress be make to deliver Baroness Casey ' s recommendation follow her national audit on group - base child sexual exploitation and abuse , which be publish before the summer recess . the sexual exploitation and abuse of child by groom gang be the most horrific and despicable crime . girl as young as 10 be exploit , abuse and brutally rape by gang of man , and then disgracefully let down again and again by the authority that be mean to protect they . these despicable crime have cause the most unimaginable harm to victim and survivor throughout their life and be a stain on our society . Baroness Casey ' s report chronicle more than a decade of inaction on these appalling crime by previous government , despite repeat warning and recommendation . but this government will not lose any more time in pursue truth and justice for victim and survivor , who deserve so much well . that be why , on 16 June , the Home Secretary make it abundantly clear that this Government will accept all 12 of Baroness Casey ' s recommendation , include the establishment of a new statutory national inquiry into group - base child sexual exploitation , and a new national policing operation to get more perpetrator behind bar . since then , we have make significant stride in lay the foundation for a robust , survivor - centre national inquiry and in establish a national policing operation , while continue to drive forward the major workstream that be already well under way to tackle those abhorrent crime . I will first update the House on the progress make to establish a new national policing operation to get perpetrator who exploit , abuse and harm child behind bar , where they belong . today , I can announce that Operation Beaconport have be establish . it will be oversee by the National Crime Agency and deliver in partnership with policing , include the National Police Chiefs ' Council , the CSE taskforce and the tackle organise exploitation programme . for the very first time , this new national policing operation bring together all the relevant police partner under one operation , to ensure a swift and specialist law enforcement response to groom gang offending . this collaborative approach ensure that a long - term investigative capability be build across police and that good practice be standard , end an unacceptable postcode lottery for victim and survivor . the new national operation will eliminate inconsistency on how case be handle across force and will ensure that there be no hiding place for perpetrator . victim and survivor be central to the operation , and trauma - inform practice will be at its core . over the summer I have be meet survivor and their support organisation on the issue . this work be already well under way . in January the Home Secretary ask police force to identify case involve grooming and child sexual exploitation that have be close with no further action , to pursue new line of inquiry and to reopen investigation where appropriate . as a result of that commission , 1 , 273 case have now be identify for formal review , and the new national operation have identify 216 high priority case — those that involve an allegation of rape — which be be accelerate as a matter of urgency . we expect police to meticulously pore over those case and work with associate victim to relentlessly pursue perpetrator who should be behind bar . that include the ongoing investigation relate to South Yorkshire Police ' s handling of report into child sexual abuse and exploitation in Rotherham . follow discussion between the Independent Office for Police Conduct , South Yorkshire Police and the National Crime Agency , I can confirm that it have be formally agree that the investigation will now be carry out by the NCA , under the direction and control of the IOPC . alongside these ongoing review , Operation Beaconport will also provide additional support for police force to conduct complex investigation , and to ensure that specialist good practice be be adopt consistently across the country . I thank the CSE taskforce for the work that it have do in prepare the way forward for these investigation . I can announce to the House today that in the first year that this Government be in office , from July 2024 to July 2025 , the taskforce contribute to 827 arrest nationwide , an 11 % increase on the previous year . to bolster this vital work , I can update the House that last month I announce that the Government would be inject £ 426 , 000 of new funding to the tackle organise exploitation programme , in addition to the £ 8 . 8 million that we be already invest in the programme this year . the new funding will enable TOEX to extend access to its suite of cut - edge investigative app and digital tool , store within its secure capability environment , to all police force in England and Wales . follow my announcement of a further investment , in addition to the 15 police force that be already utilise TOEX tool , a further 10 force be currently onboarde . the toex expansion crucially support the first phase of Operation Beaconport . police officer will be able to access the AI - enable tool to assist with detect and investigate child sexual abuse and exploitation , include TOEX translate , a tool for bulk translation of foreign language text from seized mobile device , which have enable saving of an estimate £ 25 million so far , and the data analysis and review tool , which analyse large amount of digital datum to identify communication pattern and relationship between suspect . further announcement on Operation Beaconport will be make by operational partner shortly . a comprehensive update be expect in the come week , set out the full scope of the operation and the support available to those affect . we will never shy away from the fact in these case . follow Baroness Casey ' s audit and her conclusion on the disproportionate role of pakistani - heritage gang , and build on the work that the Home Secretary have already commission to improve ethnicity datum in relation to those crime , we have also commit to make it a requirement to collect ethnicity and nationality datum of suspect who commit child sexual exploitation and abuse offence . the Home Secretary have write to chief constable to signal that the current data collection across ethnicity and nationality be unacceptable , and that this datum must be improve as a matter of urgency . work be now under way look to amend the annual data requirement to support this process , and we be look at legislative option to drive forward these improvement . finally , Baroness Casey recommend the establishment of a new statutory national inquiry that could compel target investigation in local area , to get truth and justice for victim and survivor , and to drive meaningful change in local system and structure that have fail so many people in the past . I can confirm that the national inquiry into group - base child sexual exploitation and abuse will place victim and survivor firmly at its heart . crucially , it will ensure trauma - inform , accessible engagement for victim and survivor that reflect diverse live experience and minimise the risk of re - traumatisation . the inquiry will examine how effectively local and national safeguarding system protect child from group - base sexual exploitation and abuse , and hold institution accountable for past failure . as the Home Secretary say in June , its purpose must be to challenge what Baroness Casey ' s audit describe as continue " denial " , " resistance " and " legal wrangling " among local agency . the inquiry will consider intersection with ethnicity , race and culture , and assess the safeguarding duty of public service , identify both failure and example of good practice . I know that everyone in the House and beyond want to see the inquiry begin its work at the early opportunity . colleague will know that that require the appointment of a chair and the agreement of term of reference . follow a recruitment process over the summer , Home Office official , the Home Secretary and I have meet with prospective candidate for the chair of the inquiry and we be now in the final stage of the appointment process . most importantly , the chair must have the credibility and experience to command the confidence of victim and survivor , as well as the wide public . meaningful engagement with victim and survivor be paramount . to support that , a dedicated panel of victim and survivor have be establish to contribute to the chair selection process . this be a critical milestone , and once an appointment be confirm , the House will be update at the early opportunity . member from across the House will understand that this process must be do properly and thoroughly . we must avoid a repeat of what happen with the effort to appoint a chair of the original independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , when three chair be appoint and subsequently withdraw , from July 2014 onwards , prior to the eventual appointment of Professor Alexis Jay in 2016 , a full two year after the original chair be name . we be determined to ensure that that do not happen again . in line with the Inquiries Act 2025 , the appoint chair will play a central role in shape the commission ' s term of reference . these will be publish and subject to consultation with stakeholder , include victim and survivor . the inquiry be expect to run for two to three year , enable it to examine a broad range of issue , while honour Baroness Casey ' s recommendation that it must be time - limit to deliver answer swiftly , a key request not just from victim and survivor , but from member from across this House . the inquiry will begin by identify priority area for review , conduct target local investigation and report finding at both local and national level . these review will be tailor to the specific context of each area and may involve a wide range of organisation , include child ' s and family service , police , the Crown Prosecution Service , health and education provider , youth service , third - sector organisation and central Government Departments , whose action and decision have affect what have happen at a local level . where appropriate , the inquiry will issue recommendation at both local and national level . we will continue to keep member of the House , the victim and the public inform of all appointment and the term of reference . the Government remain unwavering in their commitment to ensure that this inquiry be robust , transparent and capable of deliver truth , accountability and meaningful change . as we have say from the outset , we be determined to ensure that every survivor of groom gang get the support and justice they deserve ; that every perpetrator be put behind bar ; that every case , historic or current , have be properly investigate ; and that every person or institution who look the other way be hold accountable , as that be a stain on our society that should be finally remove for good . I commend this statement to the House . order . give that the Minister have just take 12 minute , I will be extend the time allowance to the shadow Home Secretary to six minute and to the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats to three minute . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . let we remember that victim be at the heart of this : young girl , some only 10 year old , be groom and gang rape by man of predominantly pakistani origin . they be girl like Jane , who be just 12 year old when she be rape by an illegal immigrant , but when she be find by police , instead of arrest the rapist , the police arrest Jane ; or like Anna , only 15 year old , who repeatedly tell social worker that she have be gang rape , but instead of help she , they allow she to marry her main abuser in an islamic ceremony , and the social worker even attend the ceremony . the ring leader of the rochdale rape gang , Shabir Ahmed , be actually employ as a welfare right officer by Oldham council . in another case , a man try to rescue his young daughter from be rape , but instead of protect she , the police arrest her dad . I speak to a mother whose daughter be rape by taxi driver of pakistani origin . when she complain to social service , they say that if she dare to raise the matter again , she would lose her daughter . I speak to a retired police officer who be tell by a senior officer at the time to stop investigate abuse by pakistani - origin taxi driver in Bradford because the police locally do not want to offend Bradford ' s muslim community . a former Labour MP , Simon Danczuk , be even tell by senior Labour party figure to stop ask question in his constituency to avoid antagonise the muslim community . these crime be deliberately cover up by people in authority because so - call community relation be see as more important than protect young girl . that be a disgrace . the Minister claim in her statement a moment ago that nothing have be do about this issue previously . I do not want to dwell on this , but I gently remind she that it be the last government who set up the original Rotherham inquiry in 2014 and set up the long - run independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , which be much broad but do touch on this issue . we start to collect datum on the ethnicity of suspect and set up Operation Soteria to combat sex crime ; I attend many meeting on that . we set up the grooming gang taskforce , which lead to 550 arrest in its first year , and I be glad that that be continue . we introduce legislation to require mandatory reporting , and I be again glad that the Government be continue that work . it be clear that much more be need . however , this Government have have to be drag kick and scream every step of the way . when the Government ' s rejection of Oldham ' s call for a national inquiry become public on 6 January , the Prime Minister disgracefully smear as " far - right " those support call for that proper inquiry . that kind of language be how these crime get cover up in the first place . some 10 day later , the Government partially u - turn and announce local inquiry . on 16 June , face with a parliamentary vote two day later , the Government finally announce a statutory national inquiry not because they choose to or want to , but because they be force to . what the Prime Minister claim be a " far - right bandwagon " in January have become Government policy by June . here we be , three month later , and almost no progress have be make . my office have be in contact with survivor in Oldham today , and they have hear nothing . we now discover that no chair have be appoint and there be no term of reference . there be no news on town such as Oldham or Bradford , and nothing of substance at all . that be just not good enough . will the Minister tell the House a precise date when a chair will be appoint and when we will have term of reference ? will this inquiry have full statutory power under the 2005 Act ? will she confirm that all 50 town affect will be cover ? will the Minister confirm that no police force or council will be able to investigate themselves ? perhaps most importantly , will she confirm that this inquiry will look at those in authority — the police , the CPS and local council — who deliberately cover this up ? those people be more interested in appease certain minority community than in protect young girl . finally , do she agree that those individual responsible for deliberately cover up this issue should be prosecute for misconduct in public office and , if they be convict , send to jail ? I partially thank the shadow Home Secretary for his tone , but I will correct the record . I do not say that he have do nothing : I say that Baroness Casey say that there have be " a decade of inaction on these appalling crime by previous government " . that be exactly what I say . I answer in my statement many of the question that the right hon . Gentleman ask . his office may have speak to some of the Oldham victim today ; I speak to some of they personally last night , so I keep in touch with lot of victim . what I will not do — what I will never do — be make it so that they be not involved . it take time to ensure that this process be completely victim centre . frankly , I be sure that be what he and other member on the Opposition Benches who have write to I with that request want to see , and that be the process we be undertake . in answer to the right hon . Gentleman ' s question , no local authority area can turn the inquiry down . the Home Secretary and I have say a number of time that it be a full , powerful statutory inquiry . I have see some scaremongere , and victim have write to I to say , " this will not cover Government official or people who cover thing up . " that be absolute nonsense . let I be very clear , and let it be take away by everybody who I be sure have the good interest of victim at heart , that it will cover what it need to cover to uncover the truth , and no stone will be leave unturned . that will make for difficult conversation for people . if people be find by our court system to have undermine and disgrace public office , they should of course be send to prison . however , that have never happen to date in these case . I very much hope that we uncover the kind of social worker that the right hon . Gentleman refer to , and I hope that they face the full force of everything that they deserve to face , but there be absolutely nothing that say that anybody can avoid this inquiry . it will be up to the inquiry , which be independent and statutory , to look at and work with area about where this will be . I thank my hon . friend for her statement . no one doubt she , and her team ' s , absolute commitment to address the root cause of the abuse and exploitation that so many woman and some boy have experience . in my contact with woman this morning — I speak on their behalf — I hear that they be absolutely committed and understand and reflect the commitment of my hon . friend , but they be keen to know a bit more detail about when the chair can be appoint and about the relationship that the national inquiry will have with the local inquiry . my hon . Friend quite rightly say that victim and survivor should be engage and involve in the appointment of the chair , and that be so important . will she say more about how we will ensure that there be locality - specific representation as well ? there be slight difference accord to locality . there absolutely be . my hon . friend be exactly right that there be difference , so it will be for the chair , a panel and a commission to do that work in locality and ensure that victim engagement be really location specific . with regard to the specific issue in Oldham , we have be engage very closely with Oldham for some time , include with victim and survivor . as I say , I speak to some of they last night about want they to be part of the term of reference for the national inquiry . our offer for a full and local independent inquiry in Oldham remain in place , and we be in discussion with they about how they want to proceed in the context of the national inquiry . we do not want to have victim have to do a repetitive exercise , but I assure my hon . friend that we be speak to official in Oldham very regularly . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be grateful as always to the Minister for advance sight of her statement . in every single conversation about this issue in this House , our first thought must always be with the victim and the survivor . no child should ever suffer the devastating trauma of sexual exploitation or abuse . these crime be abhorrent and an assault on the very value of our society . we carry a responsibility to act , to secure justice for victim , to ensure that offender answer for their crime and to build a future in which such suffering be not repeat . in 2022 , Professor Alexis Jay publish her independent inquiry into child sexual abuse . in June , Baroness Casey release her report on group - base exploitation . I be really grateful to the Minister for her update on the progress be make , but when do she expect to have implement the crucial recommendation from both report ? Baroness Casey be clear about one of her key recommendation : the Government must end the practice of out - of - area taxi by introduce strong national standard for taxi licensing and driver regulation . across Greater Manchester , we know that problem all too well ; for year , driver have exploit the fragmented system by secure the easy licence to obtain from council in one area and then operate elsewhere . as a result , many taxi work in Greater Manchester be license 100 mile away in Wolverhampton . what work be the Minister do to address that specific issue ? it feel like there be an opportunity to do so this afternoon through the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill , but that opportunity have not yet be take . if an amendment to the Bill be the way to achieve that aim , will the Minister work with colleague across the House to ensure that this important recommendation from Baroness Casey can be deliver ? finally , I turn to an issue that I and other have raise repeatedly , and on which some progress be hint at in recent press report . could the Minister confirm when Parliament will see legislation for a Hillsborough law , as promise many time by the Government , to guarantee that public official and authority co - operate fully with a duty of candour in case such as this one , include in the upcoming national inquiry ? I meet the Department for Transport on the issue of taxi licensing last week — this be about look for a legislative vehicle . the Government have say that we will undo some of the harm cause by the deregulation legislation of the past , include the danger that have come about related to safeguarding and taxi licensing . the hon . Lady invite member to work across the House . in every interaction — there have be many — that I have have with victim of this crime since the last time I or the Home Secretary stand at the Dispatch Box make a statement , they have ask if we could just work together and stop throw mud at each other . I will happily work with anyone on this issue . we be currently look for legislative vehicle , but we do seek to legislate . we expect the Hillsborough law shortly ; I be sorry that that be not a very prescriptive answer , but that law be very much expect . the last Government fail to implement a single recommendation from the IICSA report , and Professor Alexis Jay herself speak of the huge anger and disappointment at their response . Baroness Casey ' s work rightly focus on the future and I be grateful for today ' s statement , but can the Minister please reassure I that the extraordinary work of Professor Jay and all the brave victim and survivor who contribute to her inquiry will not be forget and that the Government will implement the iicsa recommendation in full , include its recommendation on the criminal injury compensation scheme ? currently , that scheme exclude far too many victim of group - base child sexual exploitation and leave they without adequate support to rebuild their life . I praise my hon . friend for her long - term commitment in this space . the Government have give a number of update on IICSA . I expect to come back to this House soon — one way or another — with further update on progress in that area . much of the progress we be seek to make be through Bills that be currently pass through Parliament and be over in the other place , but my hon . friend make the very important point that we must not undermine the two - year piece of work that have already be do by Professor Jay . we will make sure that all those finding and recommendation , which Casey include as well , and any intelligence that be send to we feed into the new national independent inquiry . over the summer , Lord Cryer say that there be a deliberate attempt to silence his mother , Ann Cryer , when she first bravely raise the issue of groom gang in Keighley more than 20 year ago . Ann Cryer be , of course , one of my predecessor as Member of Parliament for Keighley . Lord Cryer say that he be " absolutely certain there have be a cover up on a local level " , and that Bradford need to be examine as part of the inquiry . unfortunately , Bradford council and other in this House be still say that they will only support a focus on Bradford if that be deem necessary by the inquiry chair . that be not the same thing as say that they will actively lobby for that outcome , so do the Minister share my concern that Bradford council ' s reluctance for an inquiry to take place in our area have not change , despite the voice of so many victim and other demand one ? I pay tribute to Ann Cryer , a woman I be incredibly fond of — personally as well as professionally — for her immense bravery . I have no doubt that none of we would be sit in the Chamber today talk about any of this have it not be for she ; she deserve absolute credit . I do not recognise the characterisation that the hon . Gentleman have give . I have not have any particular pushback , or hear anywhere suggest that the inquiry should not be look into certain area or give any sense that they will resist it , but I would say to all local area : resistance be futile . I welcome today ' s update on the national inquiry into groom gang , particularly the way in which the Minister have make sure that victim and survivor be definitely go to be at the heart of whatever happen . during the trial of seven member of a Rochdale groom gang early this year , it emerge in court that the social worker involve have refer to one of the victim — who be 13 at the time — as a prostitute . other victim , who be 10 at the time , be also call prostitute . I know the Minister will agree that the criminalisation of young girl as prostitute cause they far trauma later in life . these girl be victim and the state should recognise they as such , so what step will the Minister take to ensure that such conviction for prostitution be disregard as swiftly as possible ? often in this debate , we discuss how people feel nervous or anxious about ethnicity , when what be also evident in every single case — regardless of the ethnicity of the perpetrator — be the ability of agency to look at woman and think of they as something else , and to treat young girl poorly . that be exactly what my hon . friend be talk about . the Crime and Policing Bill , which be go through Parliament , be go to disregard any child prostitution conviction . we be work with the Ministry of Justice to find the wide cohort of victim , and with body in the criminal justice system to identify and review case and to support victim . it will not always have be prostitution charge ; I have meet many victim who have be criminalise for a variety of thing that they probably should not have be . that will be a much more complicated process , but it be one that we have set in train . I be glad that the Minister want to put victim and survivor first , and I hope the whole House will join she in that . it be absolutely right that we all do so . she will be aware of the Tom Crowther inquiry , which highlight 1 , 000 victim over 30 year in Telford and in some part of my constituency . early , the Minister say to the House that we do not want victim to have to undergo " a repetitive exercise " . I understand why she say that , but would she support the national inquiry go back to Telford to ensure that thing that should have be do , but that still have not be do , will be do ? will she also ensure that the Labour council — forgive I — in Telford and Wrekin will not stand in the way of that progress ? on the contrary : very few people have write to I more throughout this process than the leader of Telford council , who have talk about how they want to continue to make progress . I be very familiar with what happen in Telford . quite a lot of the evidence show that people in Telford be groom where I live , in Birmingham , yet the Telford inquiry — while brilliant — do not lead to any change in neighbouring area . that be exactly what we hope the national inquiry will do , so although I can not direct where it must go , I absolutely want it to look at prior work that have be do and some of the gap that have be identify , exactly as the right hon . Gentleman say . I welcome my hon . friend ' s statement . this be yet another example of the state turn its back on working - class people — in this case , young girl . I also welcome the fact that cold case be go to be investigate and that those case will be reopen if there be any evidence of criminal activity , but in the past when an inquiry have be announce , we have see police suspend until the outcome of that inquiry investigation that they have be undertake . can the Minister assure we that that will not happen in this case ? yes . my hon . friend make an important point that we have to make sure that the inquiry be not use for further state inactivity . there have be case where that have happen before . as we be undertake a new national policing operation in Operation Beaconport at the same time as the national inquiry , I give he my absolute assurance that I will ensure that the two work closely together so that such a situation can not happen , unless it would cause such judicial issue that it would have to happen . I truly thank the Minister for put vulnerable girl first and central in her statement . as we all know , victim of sexual abuse be too often disbelieve by the authority , whatever the circumstance . speak out take immense courage , and people pay an immense cost only too often . I welcome her announcement regard the national inquiry , but can she assure I that the Government ' s delay violence against woman and girl strategy will clarify how victim will be support to rebuild their life , and can she please say when it will be publish ? there have be some reporting that the violence against woman and girl strategy will not include child abuse victim and groom gang victim . I can stand here and say that be utter rubbish ; it absolutely will , and it will be publish very shortly . any delay be only out of my own perfectionism — I think that be what I will call it . this be a 10 - year strategy that will last until at least the next Parliament , and it have to be right . huge part of it will absolutely be about support for victim . I thank my hon . friend not only for her statement , but for the care and determination she have bring to this role to centre the discussion and action around victim and young girl , and to work in collaboration with other — not just in this House , but those who be directly affect . may I just add to the point that the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) raise about loophole in taxi licensing ? one of the big issue that come up in my constituency , both from taxi user and woman ' s group , as well as from the vast majority of decent , hard - work taxi driver , be that these loophole , and ineffective and outdated taxi licensing , give a bad name to the system as a whole . I urge the Minister to work with her colleague and to ensure that as we proceed with the national inquiry , we also proceed with the updating of legislation to give protection to all . absolutely . long before Baroness Casey be point out the safeguarding issue , I be be lobby by decent , hard - work people about the failure of the taxi licensing system as it stand . we will consider all option . as I have say , we have commit to legislate specifically on this point , but we be also look at include out - of - area work , as well as national standard and enforcement , and at consult on make local transport authority responsible for licensing . what a disappointment . I come to the House today to listen to the Minister ' s statement in the hope that we would get some detailed information about the Government ' s statutory inquiry . what have we have today ? a long statement and little information . in fact , I would go so far as to say that what this government be do with the rape gang inquiry be a masterclass in procrastination . what do we hear from the Prime Minister ? that it be a right - wing bandwagon . what do we hear from senior Ministers ? that it be a dog whistle issue . we want to know what the term of reference be and when they will be put on the Government ' s website so that we can all inspect they . when will this conclude — or do the Minister hope that it will go on and on past the next general election ? I be not sure the right hon . Lady want to hear my hope about the next general election . as I say early , the victim of this crime have sit in front of I with tear in their eye and say that they hate it when we shout at each other about these thing and that they wish we would work together . just to tell she the detail again , I outline that 1 , 273 case have now be identify by the new policing investigation , which be recommendation 1 of Baroness Casey . of those , we be expedite 216 case . the term of reference will be publish and consult on , and I would very much welcome the right hon . Lady ' s opinion . she have never ask for a meeting with I , and I would love to have one . if she would like to be involve in how we build those term of reference up , please get in touch with my office . I have to say , however , that hers be not the voice I be most concerned about hear — those people I be speak to . one of the most shocking indictment in Baroness Casey ' s evidence to the Home Affairs Committee be the long list of inquiry and speech , and the shocking lack of action that have follow , so I welcome the announcement that the Minister have make about action to tackle these issue . can she update we on the establishment of the child protection agency , how it will be set up as this inquiry go on , and how it will adjust and evolve as learning from the inquiry come out ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , because Baroness Casey point out how many of her recommendation hinge on there be a good child protection authority , and that work be be do by Department for Education colleague . I have be involve , along with Alexis Jay , and I have ensure that she have be in meeting with they . the authority will evolve , because what we do not want to do , contrary to the view of some in the House , be to wait forever to set it up or to try to get it exactly right first time when it be a complicated thing . it will evolve along the way , but all those involve in the inquiry , across both local and national body , will have the opportunity to feed in their view about what it need to look like . I be wholly supportive of this government - commission report into group - base child sexual exploitation , but the Government must not be distract from the place where child sexual abuse occur most frequently . the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to child report that 90 % of young people who have be sexually abuse say that the perpetrator be someone they know . around a third of child sexual abuse be perpetrate by young people under the age of 18 , and the NSPCC say that in relation to sible sexual abuse : " the number of child affect by this hide harm be far great than be acknowledge by … policymaker " . be the Minister certain that the Government will not be distract from abuse within school and within family ? I praise the hon . gentleman for say that , because familial abuse and child exploitation not by group but by family or peer group be , I be afraid to say , not uncommon . I know that from my year of experience . those victim feel as if their voice be be marginalise . this piece of work that we have announce today be part of a much broad child abuse body that sit within the Home Office and work on all those thing . the recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse keep we on that track , but we must not lose sight of all the abuse , especially that happen among young people against other young people and online . I thank the Minister for her statement today and for the recognition that a process that be support by those people who should be at the heart of it be always difficult . we must take time to ensure that any inquiry have the faith of the people at the centre of it , because it will never be possible to do that again , as they have be fail too often . we have discuss before how child abuse and exploitation do not stop at Gretna . will the Minister outline what engagement there have be with the devolved administration on how we can make this a truly national inquiry ? my hon . friend be right . as I say early , there be likely to be border - crossing between Birmingham and Telford , which be mention in the early inquiry . we continue to discuss this with the devolved administration . the Scottish Government can set up a specific national inquiry under the Inquiries Act , as we have , but any cross - border finding will of course be share , action will be seek , and , potentially , recommendation will be make . at the start of the summer , there be some horrendous report about rape and assault commit by South Yorkshire police . I welcome the decision to involve the National Crime Agency and strip responsibility for those investigation from the force , but can the Minister confirm that the national inquiry will examine the role of the police not only in cover - up but in the crime themselves ? South Yorkshire police should never have be leave to investigate themselves in this matter , and move those investigation to the NCA be absolutely the right thing to do . I would be lie if I say that over the year I have not meet girl who talk to I about how police be part of not just the cover - up but the perpetration . we must ensure that victim can come and give that testimony . it be hard to give than other testimony because it bring fear and a lack of trust , but if that be where the inquiry take we because that be what victim say , that be what will happen . the crime of group - base child sexual exploitation be probably the most heinous imaginable . it be so brave of victim to speak out , seek justice and drive change so that other young life be protect from such crime . can the Minister tell we more about how the national inquiry will engage with victim and survivor and ensure that their voice — and the voice of those who previously bravely contribute to investigation and inquiry — be central to the recommendation ? unlike the criminal law , the criminal injury compensation scheme do not recognise that child can not legally consent , and exclude those who have be deem to consent from compensation . will the Minister work with the Victims Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) — to right that injustice ? I absolutely commit myself to work with the Victims Minister . the issue of consent , and the age of consent , be a huge part of Baroness Casey ' s review , and a number of member have mention make this a victim - centre process . these be word that we say , but it be much hard in reality . we be talk about people who have be very badly wrong and whose level of trust have be badly affect . this be not something that happen easily . it be not a process in which every one of the victim will get on with the other . we will ensure that in both the national police inquiry and the national statutory inquiry there be system to enable as many voice as possible to be hear as comfortably as possible , but I do not think we should lie to the public about how easy those procedure be . I speak as someone who have work in this field for a very long time . we be talk about very traumatised and distressed young people , and this will take considerably more effort and patience than I think they have be show in the past . groom gang be entirely abhorrent , as be all form of groom lead to sexual exploitation . this summer I meet a Torbay resident whose 15 - year - old adopt son have be groom online and then prostitute online . can the Minister please tell we how she intend to tackle all form of groom that lead to sexual exploitation ? my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) mention the importance of draw attention to the fact that , especially in the context of the online crime of sexploitation , boy be at great risk . that be the only area of exploitation in which most of the victim be teenage boy , and it be a new and grow phenomenon . I say to the hon . Gentleman that in both the national inquiry and Operation Beaconport , the Home Secretary and I have be push at every stage for recognition of the fact that this process can not just rake over historic coal . it must be ground in recognition of the way in which abuse be happen now and improve police force ' response to it , and undoubtedly it be now happen online . the most frightening statistic that keep I awake at night be that last year 53 % of child sexual abuse be perpetrate by child age between 10 and 17 . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for what have be a lifetime of work protect woman and girl . I welcome what she have say about update the ethnicity datum , which will enable the public debate to take place on the basis of datum and fact rather than the prejudice and scaremongering of which she have speak , but do she think it might also help to engender trust in the debate if she be to take this opportunity to acknowledge that there be a completely unacceptable woke reluctance to offend certain community , and that this culture of deference , where it persist , must be stamp out ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word , and I will certainly take that opportunity , because I have see this with my own eye in case in which I have be involve . People have say , " oh , it might cause trouble . " that be not stop they do it , but they would not have even mention it to I in other circumstance . what we have to do , and what we all owe to the victim of these crime , be to call it what it be , but also not to use our own political agenda in relation to their very delicate and harm life , whatever form that take . we do not want a backlash cause the police to go on thinking , " oh gosh , this be go to open a can of worm . " we must all act responsibly in respect of these issue . however , I have definitely see this , and it should never have be allow to happen . I recently meet Dr Joanna Kerr , an extremely brave survivor of child sexual exploitation and abuse in Scotland . as it stand , the national inquiry will not cover Scotland , and the Scottish National party Government will not launch their own . I ask the Minister again : will she commit herself to extend the national inquiry to cover all part of the United Kingdom include Scotland , or do victim like Joanna not deserve justice ? it be not that victim like Joanna do not deserve justice ; they absolutely do deserve justice . I do not know about Joanna ' s case , but I should be more than happy to meet she and talk to she about it . the body that must hold a national inquiry into event in Scotland be a body in the devolved government , because both policing and child protection be devolve issue . however , as I say to one of my hon . friend early , I be more than happy to look into this . People who be scottish , or who live in Scotland now , and have be abuse in an area cover by the inquiry will absolutely be able to take part . one of the question that haunt Baroness Casey ' s audit be , " why ? " why be this type of offending allow to grow seemingly unchecked for so long ? will the Minister , whom it be good to see in her place , give an assurance that serious and credible research on all the factor that drive and enable the horrendous crime of gang - base child sexual exploitation will be commission and will operate without fear or favour ? absolutely . one of Baroness Casey ' s recommendation be for a piece of research on exactly that : the " why " about thing that be cover up and the " why " about community but also institution . the Home Office be currently work with various academic to commission such research , and it be fundamental . while a huge amount of discussion — and , as I have say , I agree with it — have concern the " why " issue on ethnicity , with the nervousness , the wokeness or whatever we want to call it , another " why " be about class and the way in which the system treat these young woman when they come forward , and , indeed , the way in which they treat plenty of other woman when they come forward in relation to any of these issue . it be a pity that the Government have have to be drag scream into grant this inquiry into pakistani rape and groom gang , but the inquiry be welcome . however , give the fact that nobody have be appoint yet , the term of reference have not be determine and we do not even know how long the inquiry be go to take , I be sure the Minister will understand why victim will be look for what can be do immediately to address their concern . for those case where police officer , social worker and council official have be identify as cover up , can we be assure that their case will be deal with ahead of any inquiry ? for those who have be put in jail , can we ensure that they serve out their sentence , unlike the Oxford Six , who be release early despite the recommendation ? I do actually say in my statement that , as outline in Baroness Casey ' s review , the inquiry should take around two to three year and be time - sensitive . all I can say to the right hon . Gentleman be that in order to make sure that we be do this right , we will shortly be provide an update on the chair of the inquiry . I gently remind he of the two year it take to find a chair for the child sex abuse inquiry — two year and three fail attempt . I do not want to do that to people this time , so that be why we be take the time . we all want to see an end to groom gang , and justice for victim and survivor , because exploit the most vulnerable be about as despicable and heinous as it get . we all know that perpetrator come from different background and community , but certain politically motivated individual be try to blame particular community , which be why they try to gloss over that fact in their effort to sow division and discord . we certainly can not be politically correct about this either , because no one , regardless of race or religion , be above the law . we can not allow such an important issue to be treat like a sectarian political football by those who seek to sow division . can my hon . friend the Minister outline what the Government will do to root out this evil with this second national inquiry ? how will it remain focused on victim and survivor , and how will she ensure that this debate be conduct in a sensible , sensitive manner ? I stand here as a vessel of the victim who have speak to I . they have not necessarily use the word " sectarian " , but they hate this issue be use as a political football . Baroness Casey , in the medium that she do post release her report , say the same : she feel that politic be not meet the moment in some of the response . we have get to do well , and the very first thing that I would say be that I welcome the involvement and look forward to the engagement on the term of reference , which will be publish for consultation with every single member of this House , regardless of what they might have say before or whether we might have fall out on other occasion . I welcome the inquiry , and I want to make sure that we show the very good of this place , because that be the least that victim deserve . the Minister will be well aware that many of the victim of this disgraceful , despicable type of activity be originally take from broken home and put into the care of a local authority , and then groom ruthlessly . social worker turn a blind eye . manager tell social worker to turn a blind eye . the police , in many way , be complicit . one of the problem be that the whistleblower who come forward to tell the story be all sack . what action will the Minister take to ensure not only that the victim be protect , but that the whistleblower who come forward and tell the truth of what be go on be similarly protect as part of this inquiry ? I absolutely agree with the hon . gentleman — he be not a man I have fall out with before . I hear from some whistleblower this week that some of their testimony be not publish by IICSA . when deal with the term of reference , we have to ensure that there be robust safeguard for whistleblower . I have work with one of the whistleblower , Sara Rowbotham , who lose her job in Rochdale . I have meet she and her Member of Parliament to talk about exactly some of that and how we need to get this right — not just in the inquiry or in Operation Beacon Port , but in the future . on 6 August , the Minister describe certain council that do not believe that they have a problem with grooming gang as " idiot " . can she explain if that also apply to the Government , give the enormous pressure it take for they to implement this inquiry and the disparage comment previously make by the Prime Minister ? it would be play a very long game to say that I have be take kick or scream into this issue . Sarah Rowbotham be one of the whistleblower , and I write a book about she and this particular issue about nine year ago . I have also set up many , many support service for victim of these crime . I will always do what I think be good in these case , and I take the advice of Baroness Casey . try to see bad faith , or to score political point , be not what we should do . I pay tribute to the Minister for her work and thank she for her statement . this crime be absolutely abhorrent . every single victim and survivor of this crime must get justice , no matter the perpetrator — pakistani , indian , English or anyone — so can we please dial down the politicisation and the inflammatory rhetoric in this place , and show total compassion and empathy when we work together to tackle this scourge in our country for every single victim ? may I ask the Minister for a meeting with I and my colleague so that we can learn how we can support the work of the Government in this space ? of course I will meet the hon . Gentleman and , like I say , any colleague who wish to take part in this work . as somebody who represent a large and diverse community , I have to say that the pakistani part of my community have be most fervent in want the truth to come out , because harm have be do to they by the alleged wokeness that have be talk about . as I finish my statement , let I take this opportunity to say that we have to make sure that we have the fact and do not feel squeamish about the perpetrator . at 6 am on Monday morning , I meet victim of this crime who be black , white and Asian . we must not silence those victim by only ever talk about one type of victim . the victimhood in group - base abuse be not just one type , apart from one thing : they be all girl . bill present Sentencing Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Shabana Mahmood , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Angela Rayner , the Chancellor of the Exchequer and Secretary Peter Kyle , present a Bill to make provision about the sentencing , release and management after sentencing of offender ; to make provision about bail ; to make provision about the removal from the United Kingdom of foreign criminal and the processing of information about foreign criminal for immigration purpose ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 299 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 299 - EN ) . Vehicle Registration Marks ( Misuse and Offences ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Dr Al Pinkerton present a Bill to make provision about offence relate to the misuse and illegal copying of vehicle registration mark ; to require the Secretary of State to introduce measure to reduce incidence of such misuse and illegal copying ; to make provision about support for victim of any such offence ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 12 September , and to be print ( Bill 298 ) . baby and Infants ( Allergy Guidance ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision for a review of allergy guidance relate to the feeding and weaning of baby and infant ; and for connected purpose . have a child , I be tell , be one of the most amazing and fulfilling time of a new parent ' s life . I hope to be able to report back to the House on the validity of that claim later in the year . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] however , it can also be a period of huge anxiety . parent be reliant on our brilliant NHS through pregnancy and those important first few month of a child ' s life . they will be inundate with information via medical professional , peer , support group or the internet and will , of course , make the good decision they can base on the information they have . this matter be personal to I . as a long - time allergy sufferer expect my first child , I have be actively seek out information on how I can well militate against my child grow up with some of the food allergy that I have , and I be not alone . rate of allergic disease such as asthma , hay fever and food allergy have be increase . the UK have some of the high rate of allergic condition in the world , affect more than one quarter of the population . allergic condition be one of the most common chronic disease in childhood . around 6 % of all visit to the GP be due to allergy , and medicine to treat allergic disease account for 10 % of the total GP prescribing budget . the direct cost to the NHS of manage allergic disease be more than £ 1 billion per annum , but the cost in reality be likely to be much high . the cost to individual allergy sufferer and their family be great still , with huge impact on their life , as many of we know all too well — increase anxiety , social isolation and limited opportunity for travel and other experience , because the health risk be far too high and allergy awareness be far too low . on average , two child in every classroom be affect by food allergy , and food allergy double in the UK between 2008 and 2018 . the scale of the problem be huge , with allergy impact every classroom and every gp surgery in the UK . have speak to some of the most noted allergy specialist in the country ahead of today , it be clear to I that the current food allergy guidance for the feeding and weaning of baby and infant should be review , with a particular focus on child who be show early sign of allergic disease . well address allergy at primary care level be a relatively simple but hugely effective way of move the allergy conversation towards prevention . the Government ' s new 10 - year plan for the NHS rightly demand that focus on prevention . prevention in allergy be about recognise the key principle that prevent severe condition from develop , rather than purely focus on the treatment of those severe condition , be well for both patient and the financial sustainability of our NHS . rather than long wait to see allergy specialist and the hope of medical trial once a child have already develop an allergy , which have huge waiting list and be , sadly , not effective for everyone , improve our approach to allergy in our public health advice and primary care can be the key to prevent child from develop allergy in the first place . the guidance should be review for a number of reason : to improve the clarity and consistency of message ; to increase awareness ; to help to empower healthcare professional ; and to ensure that ethnic minority be not be put at a disadvantage . however , before I go into detail as to why the evidence suggest we need this review , I want to be clear about what this Bill be not . current NHS guidance recommend exclusive breastfeed for about the first six month of the baby ' s life , and that continue breastfeed into the baby ' s second year or beyond , alongside other food , be good for their development . the Bill do not contradict that advice . it be not about change the advice give to the majority of parent ; it be only for child who be begin to show sign of allergy development , such as those with severe eczema and those already show sign of food allergy . additionally , any suggestion of early weaning for this cohort of child be to be do alongside breastfeed . there be no suggestion in the study that I cite to support the Bill that breastfeed rate be impact by alter public health advice to well prevent allergy . nhs guidance on introduce food that could trigger allergy show that delay the introduction of peanut and egg beyond six to 12 month may increase the risk of develop an allergy to these food . the report that this advice be base on be almost 10 year old . other country around the world have take a more aggressive approach to allergy prevention over the past decade , and we in the UK need to learn and adapt base on the outcome of those different approach . the medical guidance and evidence from other part of the world , include the US and some area of Europe , actually go far and encourage the early introduction of those allergen , which be particularly the case for child who display allergy early on . the Learning early about Peanut allergy study , or LEAP , look at the introduction of peanut into the diet of infant age between four and 11 month who be at high risk of peanut allergy , with high - risk infant define as those with the presence of significant eczema and / or a pre - exist egg allergy . publish 10 year ago now , the study demonstrate that the consumption of snack contain peanut by infant who be at high risk of develop a peanut allergy prevent the subsequent development of the allergy . of the child who avoid peanut , 17 % have develop a peanut allergy by the age of five , while only 3 % of the child who be randomise to eat the peanut snack have develop the allergy by the age of five . in the US , the guidance recommend that parent of child who be believe to be most likely to develop a peanut allergy — infant with severe eczema , an egg allergy or both — introduce these child to peanut - contain food at four to six month , or get a referral to an allergist who will give the child a skin prick test or blood test to check if the child be allergic to peanut . european guideline make similar recommendation on the early introduction of peanut and egg between four and six month . while NHS guidance suggest that delay the introduction of peanut and egg may increase the risk of develop the allergy , I believe that more information should be give to parent when their child be show early sign of allergy . the feedback I have have from speak to young parent and parent - to - be be too often that the information for these child be too difficult to find , or that the medical professional the parent be engage with be more likely to take a safety first approach and not encourage the early introduction of allergen . I believe that a review of the guidance will help to empower our NHS to give the good , most medically appropriate information to parent at a time when they can be at their most anxious . it must be support by education and awareness campaign , together with training for the different healthcare professional who support these new parent so that the advice they give be consistent and reflect good practice . finally , as I touch on at the start , I have concern that the current lack of guidance be most likely to impact young child from ethnic minority family . the evidence suggest that these child be both more likely to develop an allergy and more predisposed to have multiple allergy . as a result , they be more likely to be disadvantage without clear , unambiguous guidance on how their parent can navigate those first few month . I ask hon . member across the House for their support with the Bill so that we can get parent the good allergy advice for their child and so that we can mitigate the effect of , and in many case ultimately prevent , allergic disease . question put and agree to . order , that Becky Gittins , Jim Shannon , Chris Bloore , Alex McIntyre , Sarah Coombes , Kirith Entwistle , Jodie Gosling , Maya Ellis , Pam Cox , Claire Hughes , Satvir Kaur and Catherine Fookes present the Bill . Becky Gittins accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 12 September , and to be print ( Bill 297 ) . English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill Second reading [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee on 28 January and 25 February 2025 on English Devolution , HC 600 . ] the reason amendment in the name of the official Opposition have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . this Government be elect on a manifesto to deliver change — real change for work people ; change that people can see and feel around they . that mean more money in their pocket , decent job , new home , good transport link , thrive high street and opportunity for young people . but after 14 year of a Tory Government unwilling to take the tough choice to make life well for work people , it be no wonder that people have lose hope that real change be possible . and we have a plan to change that — a plan to give people with skin in the game real control over their life and the power to have a real stake in their place and share in our country ' s success . our landmark English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill will deliver this and more . it will help we to build a modern state base on a fair , strong partnership between Government and local people , with the aim of renew people ' s faith that the state can work for they . that faith have be sorely test in recent year . after more than a decade of broken promise from those on the Conservative Benches , people associate Whitehall with failure and decline . the community that once build Britain have see good job disappear , secure home crumble and once - strong community divide . thing that our parent and grandparent once rely on — that I rely on as a young mum — have fall by the wayside . it be my mission to rebuild those foundation of a good life for all community in all part of our country . I work on the frontline of local government and I see how it change people ' s life . I know that I will not achieve our goal unless we fundamentally change the way that our country be run . that mean hand power back to where it belong — to local people with skin in the game — so that they can make decision on what really matter to their community . this Bill will drive the big transfer of power in a generation out of Whitehall to our region and community and end the begging bowl , micro - manage culture . it will make devolution the default set by : give mayor new power over planning , housing and regeneration to get Britain build as part of our plan for change ; rebuild local government , so that it can once again deliver good local service that people can rely on ; and empower local community to have a big say in shape their local area . in the right hon . Lady ' s attempt to drive forward this carthorse of devolution , will she tell we where the accountability and scrutiny will come from and where the voice of local people will really be hear ? I be really disappointed , because I think that the previous Government be the one to turbocharge devolution , and we be move on that agenda . we actually do believe that devolution be a good thing and that these measure will enable mayor and local area to be empower more to drive that growth that we desperately need in all part of the country . this Bill be long overdue . England be one of the most centralised develop country in the world . too often , the system work against rather than with local people . too many decision affect too many be make by too few . that , combine with short - term , stick - plaster politic , have leave the country in a doom loop of worsen regional divide . Madam Deputy Speaker , you many wonder why a Scot would make an intervention at this point in the debate . may I advise the right hon . Lady to look north , to Scotland , to see how this should not be do ? the Scottish Government have centralise power , take they right away from community such as mine . that be how we should not do it . this be a cautionary tale . I thank the hon . member for his guidance . I always look north — contrary to what other people believe . I be very proud of the north . I gently say to he that the challenge at the moment lie with the Government of Scotland . hopefully , we can reverse thing and have a Government who truly believe in put the power in local people ' s hand . we only have to look at the difference be make by our mayor to see that there be a well way . from build ten of thousand of new social home with Mayor Rotheram in Liverpool , to fight child poverty with Mayor McGuinness in the north - east , to make people ' s commute quick and cheap with Mayor Burnham in my own Greater Manchester , and to create London ' s summer of al fresco dining and world - lead culture with Mayor Khan — will my right hon . friend give way on that point ? I will happily give way . we be very proud of the work of our Greater Manchester Mayor , Andy Burnham . on the issue of drive change , I would like to raise a point about driver . half of private hire taxi in Greater Manchester be license outside the area . that undermine local enforcement and accountability as well as local driver who do the right thing . do my right hon . friend agree that the Bill be a chance to fix that , protect passenger , raise and maintain standard , and back the good in trade ? as another Greater Manchester MP , my hon . friend will know that Mayor Burnham have be try to address taxi licensing for some year . I think , Madam Deputy Speaker , you be here for the previous statement , which I listen to intently , in which the Minister make it clear that there be a commitment to introduce that legislation as quickly as possible . we need to make sure that that vehicle be there , and sit next to I be the Leader of the House , whose job it be to make sure that happen . we have also increase opportunity and give young people a voice in decision in the east midland with Mayor Ward . we be drive forward a new mass transit network for West Yorkshire with Mayor Brabin , support woman and girl into activity and sport with Mayor Skaith in North Yorkshire , and , not to forget , work to secure the future of Doncaster Sheffield airport with Mayor Coppard in South Yorkshire . we be also secure the extension of the Birmingham tramline with Mayor Parker . for many year under the Tories , the west midland be at the bottom of the league table for regional transport investment , but Mayor Richard Parker have secure £ 2 . 4 billion of investment to extend the metro . will my right hon . friend confirm that the power in the Bill will make it easy for combined authority to deliver these kind of project in the future , include , I hope , further extension of the metro to south Birmingham ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention and again give full credit to Mayor Richard Parker , who have be work tirelessly with the Labour Government to invest in the future of Birmingham . I also thank my hon . friend for his campaigning , press the case that his constituent be well off for such an investment , which will bring new job and well transport link . this Bill be just the start of that . on job , in Sadiq Khan ' s first two term as London Mayor , he have see the creation of more than 330 , 000 job by the Greater London Authority . these be high - quality , well - pay job that bring huge opportunity to Londoners from all walk of life . do the Secretary of State agree that this be the testament to growth that devolution can deliver , which will be far boost by this Bill ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . this be about unlock growth in all part of the country . I hope that most hon . member can see that people with skin in the game be work across the board to make sure that that potential be reach . I be talk not just about London — although London be incredibly important to that — but about all region across our country . first , I thank Mayor Tracy Brabin for her investment in mass transit across West Yorkshire , include a new bus station in my town of Dewsbury . I be grateful for those investment , but how will this Bill stop a council from make the decision to distribute funding unequally across its borough ? how would it stop a council from , for instance , make a decision to shut down a sport centre that be use by people of all age on the pretence of there be reinforce autoclave aerate concrete and then not take step to investigate or have a plan to reopen ? I welcome the hon . member ' s comment on the mass transit network for West Yorkshire , which I be sure will bring add benefit to his constituent . to his other point , obviously elect official in local council make decision , and I would gently say to he that council have face significant pressure since the austerity measure of 2010 , which I be sure he be aware of . I be in local government at the time , and I remember be a union rep and see the devastation . we be try to restore and empower local government , instead of this situation where they have to make incredibly difficult decision that be harmful to their constituent . it be about be able to grow our economy and have a big slice of the cake . we be already invest more into local government so that we can deliver the service that people want . within this Bill be the community asset element , which may be able to help community in relation to high street and to sport facility , which can be utilise as an asset that they value in their local area . we be also improve local transport for people in the west of England with Mayor Godwin . our brilliant , ambitious mayor be make a difference every day for their region . work with they , we have already achieve so much after just a year in office . we be on track to achieve devolution across almost 80 % of the country , cover 44 million people . we have create integrate funding settlement for Greater Manchester and the west midland , give their mayor the tool and freedom to make decision to get growth go , with Liverpool city region , London , the north - east , South Yorkshire and West Yorkshire set to benefit from the same freedom next year . we be in London , the great city in the world — some would say anyway — and we have all just come back from holiday , have we not ? our Mayor Sadiq Khan have ambitious plan for an overnight accommodation levy that would put we on a par with Paris and New York and would harness our growth . those fund could help regenerate the tourism sector and improve the visitor experience . I wonder whether the Secretary of State would be open to use this devolution Bill to give mayor everywhere the power to make decision about those kind of thing . I can hear much provocation from the Conservative Benches , but any new tax be , of course , a matter for the Chancellor at the Budget , and it must balance the potential revenue and benefit against the impact on taxpayer and the economy . I really welcome the Bill ' s effort to strengthen community and local democracy . however , I be worried that not enough be be do to protect private renter . in Lambeth , nearly a third of resident be renter . rent be rise fast than wage , and the average renter be pay 72 % more than the national average , which be leave many family struggle and in poverty . the Renters ' Rights Bill be definitely a step in the right direction , but it fall short on rent hike . do my right hon . friend agree that this Bill be an opportunity to give metro mayor the power to bring in rent control and protect renter in their city ? the Renters ' Rights Bill do contain measure that mean that renter can challenge unfair rent hike . the previous Government say many time that they would do something about section 21 no - fault eviction but they do not . our Renters ' Rights Bill will ensure that we end those eviction , which be cause so much harm to my hon . friend ' s constituent and many around the country . our devolution revolution be well under way , with other queue up to join it . this what we commit to in our manifesto , and we be deliver it through this Bill . crucially , the Bill will make devolution the default for how the Government do business , with new strategic authority have power to pilot and request new function and Government have a duty to respond to certain request . it will mean that we can deliver devolution far and fast . on devolve the ability to run pilot , and follow up on the point make by the hon . member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) , Bristol city council — include labour councillor — vote cross - party to have the power to pilot rent control . recent figure show that typical private renter in my constituency spend 45 % of their income on rent . that be not sustainable . this Bill could offer the opportunity for that pilot — order . intervention have become far too long . there be many member in the Chamber who wish to contribute , which the Secretary of State might think about before she take more intervention . I will pay attention to that , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . Lady be right that there be a challenge in housing at the moment , which be also contribute to the rental situation for people . that be why we have a big ambition to build more house . the Bill give we more power for strategic planning so that we can get on with build the home that people need . the Renters ' Rights Bill do start to make progress toward make housing fairer for renter — something that the previous Government promise but fail to deliver . I will now make progress , Madam Deputy Speaker . before the Secretary of State make progress , will she give way ? [ laughter . ] the strategic authority will be create as a new category of authority in law . they will make it easy for local leader to work together over large area to drive through big pro - growth project such as integrated transport network and housing . these will operate at three level — foundation , mayoral and establish mayoral — and the particular power and responsibility that each of they will have be to be define by the Bill . work alongside parliamentarian and local councillor , mayor drive forward the delivery of people ' s priority — drive growth , unlock infrastructure and power a national renewal from the ground up . that be why the Bill will give mayor wide - range new power in area such as transport , planning and economic development . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will make progress . we will create new planning power to raise the mayoral community infrastructure levy , which have generate over £ 1 billion since 2012 in London and , alongside investment and leadership from Mayor Khan , have help to fund the Elizabeth line . with the expansion of their remit , the Bill will allow mayor who choose to raise a precept to spend it on the full range of function , ensure that local taxis be spend on local priority . I be sure that the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , will welcome this change give that it be the Conservatives who first introduce the mayoral precept nearly a decade ago and that Mayor Boris Johnson use a business rate supplement to help pay for Crossrail . I hope the shadow Secretary of State will wholeheartedly support the new power in the Bill , which will mean that mayor can intervene in major strategic planning application to unlock housing — as long as that housing be nowhere near his constituency , of course . we will also introduce power to license share cycle scheme so that they work for everyone and so that bike be not lie across pavement . the Bill will see more mayor take on police and crime commissioner function and become responsible for fire and rescue function , allow they to take a join - up approach to improve public safety . will the Secretary of State give way ? one more time , and briefly . in Southend East and Rochford we be a proud coastal community , but we have be leave behind when it come to connectivity , educational outcome and investment in skill . do the Secretary of State agree that through this Bill we have a chance to deliver the long - term meaningful change that my constituent deserve ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . this be about all area be able to join up and create inclusive growth for their area , and that be broad than at local authority level . by combine those effort we can unlock the potential , and his constituent will feel the benefit of that as we take this forward . the new power also mean new duty , include to produce a local growth plan demonstrate how mayor plan to unlock growth through planning and house building . there will also be a duty to co - operate with local government pension scheme manager so that mayor can attract investment into their local area , unlock job and opportunity . mayor across the country will also be able to appoint commissioner to support they as their responsibility grow , just like in London . the Bill also strengthen the ability of mayor to work with the public sector , convene local partner so that they can lead with a helicopter view of public service across their region . we be back the ambition and untapped potential of local area with a more ambitious role for the mayor represent they . that must be underpin by election that command public confidence . because of change make by the last government , mayor can be elect on just a fraction of the vote , despite serve million of people and manage multimillion - pound budget . we can do well than that . the Bill will therefore revert to a supplementary vote system for elect mayor and police and crime commissioner after the May 2026 election to provide great accountability and a strong , personal mandate for mayor . in addition , the Bill will bar mayor from also sit as mps , ensure that local place benefit fully from have dedicated local champion . if the Deputy Prime Minister feel that election for mayoral authority should have a supplementary vote as that give they sufficient authority , why do she not feel the same for member of this House ? million of people be represent by mayor , who have huge power over big region . we want mayor to have strong personal mandate for the community they serve rather than be elect on a fraction of the vote . it be right that first - past - the - post remain in place for general election to maintain the constituency link . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will give way to the right hon . Gentleman , who have be very patient . I be truly grateful . this be , I hope , a non - party political point . the White Paper in advance of the Bill mention rightly that there have be consultation on strengthen the standard and conduct framework for local authority , which relate to a campaign many of we have be involve in to try to protect local council clerk against bullying . we be pleased to be call into that consultation . there be , however , nothing about that in the Bill . do the right hon . Lady plan to bring it forward in separate legislation ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise that important issue . we intend to bring forward legislation . our response to the local government standard consultation set out our plan for whole - system reform , include empower local authority to suspend councillor who be guilty of serious misconduct for up to six month , with the option to withhold allowance and institute premise and facility ban . we be committed to ensure that misconduct be deal with swiftly and fairly across the country at local and regional mayoral level . we do want to take action on the issue . let I be clear that strong mayor and strategic authority will not replace council , nor the crucial work of the House . mp on both side of the House will continue to be vocal champion for their area , and we expect mayor to engage in regular and constructive dialogue with mps , work together in the good interest of their constituent . alongside the freedom for mayor to focus on local priority , my Department be continue to explore a local Public Accounts Committee - style model to improve the system of accountability and scrutiny of local spending . the Government expect mayor to use their new power to deliver real change , not retain the status quo . this be not about grandstand or make a political point ; it be about use the lever of growth to unlock infrastructure and drive investment . the role of local authority in deliver vital local service and improve local neighbourhood be essential , and it will continue . we also expect to see strategic authority work hand in glove with their constituent council to deliver for their resident . the Bill will help rebuild local government for the community who depend on it day in , day out . as a fit , legal and decent foundation of devolution , the Bill will establish the Local Audit Office to help fix the break , fragmented local audit system . we will also reform local authority governance , require council with a committee system to move to a leader and cabinet model and put a stop to new local authority mayor role be create . that change will streamline decision making across all council and make it easy for people to understand how their council be run . it will also give the Government the tool to deliver local government reorganisation , result in well outcome for resident and significant saving that can be reinveste in public service and improve accountability . at all level , we be back local people to drive growth and great opportunity for all , because , from top to bottom , the good decision for community be make by those who know their area well . that be why the Bill will also give local community across the country much - need new power , like a big say in shape their place through effective neighbourhood governance , with council require to make sure that this be happen , as well as the tool to transform their high street and neighbourhood through a new community right to buy — to save much - love community asset , like pub and shop , from be lose and to protect sport ground , which be at the heart of so many community and a source of great local pride . the Bill will also support our high street by ban the unfair practice of upwards - only rent review , prevent the blight of vacant shop front , because it be only when every community succeed that our country succeed . the Bill and our reform herald a new era for Britain : a new way of govern that put politic back in the service of work people . where previous government promise and fail the british people , this Government be keep faith . I note the Conservatives ' reason amendment . I must say that after they leave the country with the bad housing crisis in a generation , I be dismayed that they would oppose a Bill that will unlock housing and planning on a vast scale . this Bill will empower local community to take back control of their high street by end the Tory policy of upward - only rent review , and it will end the begging - bowl culture of the last Government . while the Tories make empty promise to level up the country , this Labour Government be get on with the job . within day of take office , Secretaries of State be pass down newly - win power for the sake of our town , city and village , with the Prime Minister lead the way . it have not always be easy , but real change take hard work . we be rewire Britain and , with it , growth and opportunity . this be how the british people will take back control , and how we will unite our country in time when we have never need it more . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House decline to give a second reading to the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill , because the Bill do nothing to empower local community , but instead contain measure reduce the democratically elect representation of community and enable the Government to impose local government restructuring on community , irrespective of local opinion , disregard local geography and identity ; because bureaucratic restructuring of local government will cost money and reduce focus on housing delivery with no evidence that it will deliver well service ; because the Bill will lead to great cost for resident by create new mayoral precept , increase borrowing power , and raise parking charge on motorist , and add more local bureaucrat as mayoral - appoint commissioner ; and because the Bill will result in high council tax bill for hardworke family , at a time when local government be face increase cost pressure due to unfunded rise in employer ' National Insurance contribution . " the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill — it be a title straight out of the Ministry of Truth . the Bill be not about devolution ; it be clearly a blatant power grab by the Deputy Prime Minister — a right hon . Lady for whom I have a huge amount of respect — and her Department . it be not about community empowerment at all ; it be about strip power from local authority and concentrate it in Whitehall and the hand of the people in Whitehall . big Brother would be proud . centralisation be devolution . whitehall diktat be community empowerment . the fact that the Bill do the opposite of what it claim be , as we set out in our reason amendment , why we can not give it a free pass . this Bill sideline community . this Bill force restructure without consent . this Bill waste money while family be face high bill because of labour ' s mismanagement . this Bill disrupt and distract council from build the home that local people need . those be our objection . that be what we have set out in our reason amendment . if the Government want to win the confidence of this House rather than just shoehorn their Back Benchers through the Division Lobby , they need to justify the demand embed in the Bill . during the debate and when sum up , I sincerely hope that they answer our question . why centralise control ? why raise taxis ? why deny resident their voice ? those be the question that those on the Treasury Bench need to answer before this Bill can make credible progress through the House . the case have be set out , but before member on the Labour Benches get too excited , let I put to bed a few spectre that have be raise . the conservative party believe in devolution , not just in theory but in practice : we create many of the exist mayoral role ; we create police and crime commissioner ; we empower parish council and neighbourhood planning ; and we give family the power to block excessive council tax rise . we devolve by consent — by agreement with local leader — and not by Whitehall diktat . the simple truth of the matter be that Labour do not and have never believe in devolution , and it do not deliver meaningful devolution . it be a centralise party and it centralise . this government be abolish council without consent and force they to sign up to their model of restructuring . they force the postponement of election in nine county council . that be unprecedented . election be the foundation of democracy , and deny they undermine public trust and confidence . in truth , deny resident their democratic voice be do for a very specific reason . it be do because Labour fear what people would say to it at the ballot box . the right hon . Gentleman have just list a load of thing that the Tories do with devolution . he can not deny that the reason we need devolution and local government reorganisation be because his Government significantly underfunde local government , which be now on its knee . we therefore have to take action to get local government back in a good place , and devolution and local government reform be one of those action . I think the hon . Member say the quiet bit out loud : this be about put up taxis on local people . that be what this legislation be fundamentally about ; we know that to be true . I promise the House that I do not tee up that intervention — it be the next bit in my speech . labour , by impose this restructuring from the centre , be leave local people without a voice . this legislation be about create what this Government want , which be a cohort of subservient Labour mayor . let we look at what Labour mayor actually deliver — as I say , this speech be write before the previous intervention . labour mayor put up taxis . labour mayor increase the tax burden on local people . the Liverpool city region — up by 26 % ; Greater Manchester — up by 8 % ; West Yorkshire — up by 6 % ; and London , since Sadiq Khan take office in 2016 — up by over 70 % . Labour member be quiet now , aren ' t they ? the truth hurt . can the right hon . Gentleman tell I , then , why Labour keep get re - elect to mayoralty ? I will mention Paul Bristow later in my speech . the difference be that under conservative mayor , we keep cost down . Ben Houchen , for example , be deliver a zero precept . if more place get mayor under this labour proposal , how much more will local people pay ? will Ministers — whether that be the Secretary of State or whoever respond to the debate — guarantee that cost will not go up under this model and that council tax will not rise under this model , or be this another set of taxis on hard - work family by stealth ? the truth be that the record of Labour mayor be that they increase taxis by well above the rate of inflation . also , will the pressure on parish council precept also hit hard - work local people in the pocket ? the Conservatives be in no doubt that , once again , it will be hard - work family and local people who will pay the price for Labour ' s ineptitude . it be not only family that will be hit . this Bill force council to merge , and prudent council — those that have be careful with their money — will be force to inherit the debt of other . how on earth be penalise good financial management at local government level fair ? what protection will be in place to protect people from high bill ? look through the Bill , there be none that I can see . how do my right hon . friend think my constituent on the Isle of Wight feel about be fuse under a combine mayoral authority with Hampshire without have a single say ? my hon . friend ' s point go to the heart of these proposal . for all labour ' s warm word about community engagement , community voice and community actually have a say , that be a classic example . I have visit the Isle of Wight , not only in a personal capacity but as a guest of my hon . friend , so I know full well that even though the county of Hampshire have many , many excellent thing , the people of the Isle of Wight want to maintain their autonomy — and they should have the right to do so if that be what they want . it be not just that local council will lose control of their finance ; they will also lose control of their power , which be be strip from they in this Bill . mayor be gain sweeping planning and transport power without council consent or representation . let I give an example : what if community oppose punitive anti - driver proposal from a mayor in their local neighbourhood ? how can they make their voice hear ? who will win ? will it be the mayor who have be impose upon they , or will it be the local community ? what will the accountability model be for those mayor ? we can see nothing in the Bill about people hold their mayor accountable . there be no provision for meaningful scrutiny during the tenure of the mayoralty . the Secretary of State make reference to the upwards - only rent review . I completely get that that be a superficially attractive set of proposal , but what assessment have be make of the effective valuation of commercial property , include property that be own by the local authority themselves ? if she be confident that this be such a good idea , why be there no scrutiny ? why be there no consultation on these proposal ? do Ministers really think that that be good practice when it come to create a stable investment environment and confidence for people spend money in the high street commercial property that keep our community alive ? the silence on those question about the Bill be frankly deafen , because the Government have no answer . this Bill be not about empower local community , and it be definitely not about empower local council . it be about create a cohort of puppet mayor control by the right hon . Lady ' s Department . I respect she enormously , but her ability to strip power not just from local council but from the Prime Minister be something well worth watch . I think we should at least be impress by that . I put this to Labour member : if this be about community empowerment , why do it reduce local representation ? if it be about fiscal responsibility , why will it burden ratepayer — council tax payer — with debt that their local authority do not create ? if it be about more home , why do it hamper and suffocate council with increase bureaucracy ? devolution can work , and indeed do work , when it be do properly . we know that it work because conservative mayor have deliver . Ben Houchen save Teesside airport , deliver the UK ' s large freeport with 18 , 000 quality job and secure Treasury North in Darlington with 1 , 400 high - skilled role , all with a zero mayoral precept . Paul Bristow in Cambridgeshire and Peterborough be end Labour ' s ideological attack on driver . Boris Johnson , while Mayor of London , deliver the 2012 game and secure Crossrail . in the west midland , Andy Street be a genuine champion for his region and a household name . who have he be replace by ? a person who be not even a household name in his own household . that say it all . we conservative deliver . we deliver devolved government that deliver infrastructure , job and economic growth . what have Labour deliver ? high cost and broken promise — [ interruption . ] More tax , less delivery . that be the labour way . I thank the right hon . gentleman for give way — sorry for treading on his punchline . I be very pleased to hear his new - find enthusiasm for Teesside . that be something we all share , but it seem to stand at odd with the comment he make to my predecessor about the town of Stockton . do he stand by those terrible comment that he make , or would he like to take this opportunity to apologise to my constituent ? the hon . Gentleman really do need to keep up . I address those comment at the time . I have be to Stockton . I have campaign with my good friend and colleague the conservative mayor of the town . I have knock on door in Stockton , and I have a huge amount of respect for the town . the point I be make be about the then labour representative , who I be not terribly impressed with , and the hon . Gentleman know that that be the case . we be always deeply sceptical about whether the content of the Bill would match its aspirational title , so we set five test , frame in the form of five simple question . first , be this a genuine choice for council ? secondly , do all the affected tier agree with the change ? thirdly , be there genuine public support for the change ? fourthly , will the change keep bill down ? fifthly , will the change protect social care ? have look through the Bill , it be clear that the answer to every single one of those question be no . five question , five failure . as I have say , conservative be in favour of devolution when do properly , but only if that devolution be meaningful and only if local community and their immediate representative have the power to deliver . we be its champion because we deliver it . we have prove that it work , but it must be by consent ; it can not be by compulsion . it should be by partnership , not imposition , and by empower council and councillor , not by erase they . this Bill be not devolution ; it be central control . this Bill be high taxis and weak local democracy . this Bill be a power grab by the Secretary of State . it fail to deliver on its promise , and that be why the House must decline to give it a second reading and demand that the Government rethink these proposal . rise — with the exception of the liberal Democrat spokesperson , there will be an immediate five - minute time limit . I rise to support the Second reading of the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill , which be a vital step towards modernise local government and deliver fair investment and great accountability across England . I do so with 17 year ' experience as a local councillor , for five of which I be leader of South Ribble borough council in Lancashire , which form part of my constituency . although the scope of the Bill cover many distinct subject matter , I intend to focus my brief comment — listen to what you say , Madam Deputy Speaker — on part 3 , chapter 1 on local government reorganisation . let we be clear : Lancashire be now an outlier . while 74 % of England ' s population live under unitary authority deliver all local service through a single accountable body , Lancashire remain part of the shrink 26 % operate under a two - tier system . frankly , no one would design the two - tier system today — it be inefficient , confusing and expensive . resident do not understand why one council be responsible for pothole and road and another for pavement and park , why education sit at county level while planning sit with district , or why one council collect their waste and another dispose of it . they do not understand why they be pay for two different set of local councillor for the same geographical area , and for 15 chief executive and senior management team when they only actually require three or four , or why our neighbour in Greater Manchester and the Liverpool city region be all unitarie , but Lancashire be leave with two tier of bureaucracy . the result ? duplicate service , inefficient staffing and confused accountability . we know that change work . in South Ribble , through share service with our district council neighbour , Chorley , we have save over £ 1 million for local taxpayer — real money back into local budget . imagine what could be achieve with a fully unitary structure across Lancashire . in my time as leader of South Ribble borough council , I freeze council tax for three consecutive year while still deliver effective and efficient frontline service . yet our resident ' council tax bill keep rise as Lancashire county council increase their taxis annually due to its inefficiency . my community be confuse by these council tax bill , not understand that the local district council only account for around 11 % of their overall bill and , in fact , that they be pay more to the police and crime commissioner than to their district council . beyond efficiency , this be about fully unlock devolution . Lancashire have be leave behind . we will end up be one of the large county in the north of England without a metro mayor . we have miss out already on hundred of million of pound of investment see in Greater Manchester , the west midland , West Yorkshire and the Liverpool city region . that be why I welcome the power in the Bill that allow the Secretary of State to mandate reorganisation where appropriate from a two - tier system to a unitary model . it be a necessary tool to drive reform , and I commend the Secretary of State and the local Government Minister for their bold vision . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . may I start by welcome the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , to his place on the Front Bench . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I be a councillor at Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council and a vice - president of the Local Government Association . transfer power close to community through devolution be critical to get service delivery right and develop trust . the public consistently say that they have more faith in local government than in national Government , and the Bill be mean to deliver on that promise . as the Secretary of State note , the Prime Minister say in his first week in office that he want to give power to those with skin in the game and pledge to help citizen to take back control . the Liberal Democrats absolutely agree with that desire . however , what we see here be a Bill that centralise decision making , limit community influence and , because it leave area unsure of their future , risk deepen inequality between region . the White Paper promise mayor for all region and community - lead reorganisation , but the Bill provide power to merge council from Westminster and fail to strengthen the council close to people — our town and parish . it even allow council that have directly reject a combined authority to be force into one with their neighbour . do my hon . friend agree that the Conservatives have some nerve talk about top - down reorganisation when , against people ' s wish — as express in a poll — they impose an unwanted and unpopular unitary council on the whole of Somerset ? do she also agree that the Bill should introduce fair vote , in this place and in council across the country , to restore faith in democracy and politic ? a similar thing happen in Dorset . in fact , the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) vote against a merger in our area but fail , even under his own government . I will come to the issue of proportional representation . strategic mayor have the potential to be our regional champion . the Liberal Democrats recognise the benefit that they have bring to many city , include London and Manchester . however , the Bill fail to standardise their role or to put all region on an equal footing . some area have be select for early adoption and funding , while other — Kent , Medway and my own area of Wessex — be leave behind with no timeline or support . it be unclear for some area , include Shropshire , where they will end up be make to form a combine authority . shropshire share border with Wales and Cheshire , which be in a different region , so there be no clear partner for it . I be concerned that Shropshire will end up be force into a combine authority with an area that do not look like Shropshire or give any benefit to its resident . do my hon . friend agree that this need to be well think through ? I share my hon . friend ' s concern that some area risk be leave behind by this muddle approach . I ask the Secretary of State for assurance on how she will ensure that such area do not fall far behind neighbour that be far along in the programme . we Liberal Democrats be pleased that the Government be reverse the Conservatives ' disastrous decision to use first past the post for mayoral and police commissioner election — it be ridiculous that one of the mayor elect this May win on just 25 % of the vote — but the Government must go far in make vote fair . we believe that the Government should bring in the alternative vote system so that voter ' voice be properly hear . we maintain that if the Government believe in majority support for elect official , they should extend that mandate to mps and councillor , too . the Sussex mayoral election that be due to take place in May next year will use the current first - past - the - post system rather than the propose system that the Government say they favour . do my hon . friend agree that it be totally unfair on Sussex resident that everybody who be a year behind in the programme will get to vote use a well system ? I will come to that later in my speech , when I will share the concern of electoral official about whether the legislation can deliver in time for any of the change schedule for next year . although I recognise that there be an anomaly for next year , even electoral official be worried about the Bill ' s timeline and the ability to make any change for 2026 and for those who have already have election delay . across the sector , there be serious concern about the power of the commissioner that will be appoint by mayor — people with significant influence but little scrutiny . there be concern that they will hold more sway than elect leader of local authority but without any democratic accountability . in the very centre , the Secretary of State will retain sweeping power to merge authority and extend function without parliamentary oversight or local consent . I be seek an explanation of how and when those power would be use , so that we can assure our local leader that they will not be overridden . there be widespread concern about the loss of highly skilled , experienced councillor through the removal of district council . I note the Secretary of State ' s concern about put power into the hand of too few people . how will she ensure that there be not a democratic and skill deficit and that people be properly represent across these large region ? for the last decade , the Conservative Government have cut funding to council but force they to do more . their economic mismanagement and failure to fix social care have leave many council on the brink of collapse . this Bill be an opportunity for real local government reform , but it be an opportunity miss . a particular concern of my constituent in Tiverton and Minehead , where we have one local authority in Devon and one in Somerset , be the real difficulty around special educational need and disability . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill could create difficulty for local authority that be struggle to deliver good SEND education for so many of our child ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . special educational need be a huge passion of mine — I be sure member have hear I talk about they many time — and this issue will take so many council to a very dark place . I trust that the Minister hear that on a regular basis and that we will see in the fair funding review something really serious about special educational need provision . local authority have unique access to every household and business , which give they a huge opportunity to improve people ' s health and wellbeing . the Bill require strategic authority to improve the health of their community , but I be concerned that it do not provide substantial funding to do that , and without that funding , I can not see how it can be achieve . while the Bill make substantial improvement to the working of audit , it miss the opportunity to shine a light on all the place that taxpayer ' money be spend through the introduction of local public account committee . I be reassure to hear the Secretary of State refer to that be in her thinking , but roll they out alongside strategic authority would really aid transparency , improve value for money and enable organisation to share resource for the good of the community . I urge the Government to reflect on that as we go towards the Report stage . the Bill also propose that strategic authority take on the function of police and crime commissioner and fire authority . however , because of the disparity in boundary , there be a real risk that community priority will not be maintain , and the control of such thing by appoint rather than elect commissioner far reduce democratic accountability . how will the Government ensure fair funding and effective policing and fire service where strategic authority cover vastly different community ? council have express similar concern about a mismatch between place within those authority — for example , the different need of urban and rural area , or the inclusion of a single authority among a cluster of place with very different level of deprivation or demographic . some community feel that where decision be make by simple majority vote , their voice will not be hear . weighted voting and the meaningful inclusion of town and parish council can ensure that local insight be retain , particularly around issue such as planning and transport . representation must not end there . this Bill be an opportunity to ensure that local service draw on and be inform by the full range of live experience in an area . do my hon . friend share my concern that the Bill could make it more difficult for resident to access service , because where authority that currently deliver service on a county - wide basis be split into multiple authority , it will create border within county ? my hon . friend make a very good point . there be the opportunity to use more effectively our town and parish council system to drive community empowerment . instead , the creation of neighbourhood committee feel like a top - down solution . without statutory power or budget , they risk become symbolic rather than effective . while it be welcome that exist town and parish council can participate , the Bill do not provide a framework for community want to establish new council or the funding to do so . district council have long underpin the civic identity of town and drive the activity that reflect their origin . with their loss in ancient town and city such as Colchester and Winchester , and without the funding to support small community - lead council , there be a real risk that our distinct history , culture and civic pride in our community could be erode . we can not allow that to happen . the Liberal Democrats welcome the replacement of the community right to bid with a right to buy with first refusal . I have see some fantastic example of the right to bid working , such as the Anchor Inn in Shapwick in my constituency , but these success be few and far between . community such as Teddington in my constituency will very much welcome the new community right to buy . at Udney Park , play field have lie derelict for more than a decade . however , although the Bill make provision for what happen when there be a disagreement over price , it be silent on what happen when a community bid be refuse by a buyer even at market valuation . do my hon . friend agree that the Government must look to go far on that point ? I agree that there be opportunity to do much more as the Bill move into Committee . community ' long struggle to save such asset be not because of a lack of passion or volunteer , but because the system feel stack against they . " the Museum of Broken Dreams " , a display on the parliamentary estate , show some good example of where community group have lose out to commercial developer who have demolish building and walk away , or where the group can not get support . we be pleased to see sporting asset include in the right to buy and we welcome their indefinite inclusion on the register , but we want environmental asset to be include as well , so that we can protect our land for restoration and nature management . we also want restoration of the funding for neighbourhood plan , so that small authority , which will now struggle to make such plan for their tiny community , can do so without onerous cost to their resident . to pick up on my hon . friend ' s point about environmental concern , at the moment local authority have a weak duty on biodiversity — to consider from time to time what they might do to conserve or enhance biodiversity — so do she agree that the Bill offer a real opportunity to strengthen such environmental protection , to get this country back on track ? I believe that the community right to buy have huge opportunity for council . in Committee , I hope that we will be able to improve and enhance the Bill for everyone . as a former retail business owner , I welcome the removal of upward - only rent review . business should not be lock into rise cost when market condition shift . this be a long - overdue reform that will help small business to adapt and survive . the Bill make interesting and welcome change on thing such as pension scheme and transport devolution , but miss the opportunity to improve council standard and attendance , and it fail to establish in statute the promise council of region and nation or the local authority leader council , both of which would be important in give local government a strong voice in Whitehall . in conclusion , the Liberal Democrats support the principle of devolution . we recognise the crisis in local government funding and we welcome the fair funding review promise later this autumn . the Bill , however , do not deliver the ambitious shift in power that our community need . it risk disenfranchise place leave at the back of the queue with no funding or timeline to work toward . we can not support a Bill that centralise control , weaken local accountability and miss the chance truly to empower community , as we lay out in our reason amendment . we urge the Government to think again , and to revise and recommit to genuine devolution and community empowerment so that we can support the Bill . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which include the fact that I remain a fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors . my contribution be to assist the Secretary of State and the Government in ensure that this important Bill will truly deliver on my right hon . friend ' s ambition for a transformative change in our community — a vision that we share . other in the House will want to articulate the advantage of devolve power and increase strategic focus for the english region , but I have expertise in commercial lease , so the House will forgive I for focus on that one point . the Bill represent a crucial step in the vital work of promote economic growth and opportunity for our community . our constituent will all have witness at first hand how the previous Government ' s failure to promote growth and support economic activity have contribute to the decline in the wellbeing of our community . I have spend 30 year in the commercial property industry and , as a result , numerous organisation and business have contact I directly about the proposal to ban upwards - only rent review . the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors be already work to make lease term , include about rent review , more transparent . since 2020 , the " Code for lease business premise , England and Wales , 1st edition " , which include advice on rent review , have be in place for charter surveyor to adhere to when advise both landlord and tenant . the proposal to implement by legislation a universal ban on clause within commercial lease for the provision of upwards - only rent review create uncertainty for the funding of property development . my concern be that this legislation would apply to all commercial property , not just high street retail or small business property . as currently draft , the Government ' s proposal would impact high street retail , as well as all other commercial sector . the ambition to protect high street retail and small business , particularly in tough economic condition , be certainly not to be underestimate , and nor be it unwelcome . there be a surplus of vacant , unsuitable , poorly configure and energy - hungry retail unit cry out for regeneration in most town across the United Kingdom , include in the town of Paisley , Renfrew and Erskine in my constituency , but I do not believe that it be just upwards - only rent review that be prevent the regeneration of our town and city . with my professional background , I can help to improve this technical aspect of the Bill in order to prevent unintended consequence for the Government ' s growth agenda . I understand the desire to support small business on our high street and I understand the pressure face by those business because of difficult trading condition . property development can be the foundation stone of economic growth in our regional economy . my experience be that new sustainable development , in the right place , can be transformative , a source of job and training in construction , and a source of employment and opportunity in operation . new transformative sustainable development add vitality to an area , act as a spur to further development and wide investment . I know that all member will intuitively feel that upwards - only rent review be unfair , but that be a simplistic view . among the early pioneer of upwards - only review be the Church of England ' s Church Commissioners , who implement they to ensure certainty of income for the Church and remain among the large landowner in the country . my concern be that the well - intend focus on the genuine problem of small business and the high street could have unintended consequence for the broad property development sector . in closing , I encourage my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to consider an amendment to the clause to ensure that it be focus where it be need most , without impact on all property sector . I stand ready to help with that endeavour . this Bill be suppose to be the Government ' s flagship piece of legislation to empower England ' s city , region and community , but there be disappointingly little in it about strengthen accountability in exist devolved body , especially the Greater London Authority . it be right that power be return to city , region and community , but those who hold devolve power must also be hold accountable for their decision , action and delivery . nowhere in England enjoy more devolved power than London . that be in part why it be the only area with a directly elect Assembly , devote to scrutiny . however , as the Mayor of London ' s responsibility , power and budget have grow , the Assembly have become weak and weak in comparison . a notable issue be the two - third majority require to amend the mayor ' s budget and strategy , but that be impossible to achieve in the London Assembly , which be why no budget or strategy have be amend in 25 year . unlike other combined authority , the Assembly can not call in mayoral decision and London ' s 32 borough be exclude from decision making . that mean the mayor do not have to seek consensus , negotiate or even listen to oppose view . in a city the size of London , it effectively alienate and disenfranchise million of people . that political fracture be make clear when Mayor Khan impose the ultra low emission zone expansion on outer London , despite overwhelming opposition . there be a glare democratic and accountability deficit in London , which be why so many of my constituent — and , I know , the constituent of other member — be now question the place of the London borough of Bromley in the Greater London Authority . they have never pay more to City Hall , yet people feel that they be ignore on every issue . Mayor Khan have increase council tax by 77 % in nine year , mean that Londoners pay nearly £ 500 a year on average to fund his policy . let we not forget the huge sum that londoner now pay City Hall thank to his road charge . in the first three month of this year , motorist fork out nearly £ 220 million thank to his ULEZ charge , the Blackwall tunnel toll and his hiked congestion charge . what do they receive in return for all that money ? ULEZ camera , too few police officer and green - belt protection be rip up . anyone who want to see devolution in London succeed must support measure to make the Mayor of London more accountable . first , this Bill introduce simple majority voting in combined authority as the default decision - make process , but it stop short of do that in the London Assembly . that be a mistake . it should abolish the two - third majority requirement to amend budget and strategy , allow a simple majority of Assembly member to force change . that alone would transform London ' s politic and force mayor to the table . secondly , this Government should consult on a new model to give the 32 borough a voice and a vote in London , so that Bromley can no long be ignore . finally , this Bill should give the London Assembly the power to call in mayoral decision . my constituent in Bromley and Biggin Hill have have enough of be ignore by the Mayor of London , Sadiq Khan . if the Government want to maintain the support of Londoners for devolution , the London Mayor must be make accountable . devolution and local government reorganisation must not simply be a stick plaster over the problem of today ; instead , we must determine what we want the come decade to look like for our local community . we must ensure that people in place such as Ipswich and Suffolk have the resource , power and trust to determine our own future . we can end the fragmentation of service and decision making that have at time hamper progress and instead usher in a new era of energy , ambition and delivery . it have be really encouraging to see all Suffolk ' s district and borough council , lead by different political party , work collaboratively and with compromise to form a forward - face submission . however , there be a stark and disappointing contrast with Suffolk county council . it have be really concern to see that more time be be spend on aim to discredit alternative idea and proposal , rather than promote why the plan be right for our county . tactic have at time be bizarre , but there be a serious point here . resident be entitle to proper information , not a spin - heavy pr campaign . I fully accept that turkey do not vote for Christmas , but I expect local authority to hold themselves to a high standard . while run such a misleading campaign betray a lack of confidence in their own proposal , it do they a disservice and , more crucially , treat local resident with a lack of respect and no little disdain . resident will question why the Conservatives at Suffolk county council be spend so much money and resource on such an overwhelmingly negative campaign at a time when our pothole go unfilled and our child with special educational need be so badly fail , all the while raise council tax by its maximum level every single year . Suffolk county council look not like an authority that be ready to grasp the future , but like one that look to keep power and status for itself . alongside the investment in our community by my right hon . friend the Chancellor , this Bill and the wide effort of my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister offer Ipswich , Suffolk and East Anglia a once - in - a - generation chance to turbocharge investment , growth and opportunity , give we the chance to determine our own future . while I be supportive of the Bill for the transformative effect it will have on our country , on a local level , a Greater Ipswich council could do far more than just regenerate our town and the surround area . it could become a nationally lead economic powerhouse , and our friend and neighbour in east and west Suffolk would also greatly benefit from be able to set the direction of their local community . this be not just my personal view ; it be a view share by every district and borough council in Suffolk , as well as by political party of all stripe across Ipswich . from my discussion with local resident , include at my recent town hall event , it seem to be the option that they favour , too . a Greater Ipswich will renew our area ' s economic foundation and deliver the infrastructure we need after year of neglect . Lowestoft and the energy coast will be able to power new job and investment for their area , and Bury St Edmunds will be well able to align itself with the opportunity offer by the growth around Cambridge and Peterborough . People want their council to deliver public service effectively , responsibly and accessibly , which be why I believe our devolution settlement need to produce unitary authority of sufficient scale to achieve that . however , people rightly also want their councillor and council to be root in their local community so that they can listen , understand , and act in their good interest . I believe that three unitary authority in Suffolk , work alongside a Mayor for East Anglia , would achieve that balance . this be not about loosen the fabric that hold our county together — it be about strengthen it . I move to Suffolk when I be 10 year old , a quarter of a century ago . it be my home , and I care deeply about what happen next . for a long time , we have be ill serve as a town and a county by short - termism and a do - nothing approach . every day I have enter this job , I have think about all the way in which we can leverage the change we need to set we on a new path . the Bill we be debate today will be the drive force behind how we do that . as my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister have set out time and again , the goal of devolution must not be to tinker around the edge of our current system , stick with a system that be not work for anyone . instead , we should look to the future and take this opportunity to transform local government , our public service and our community for the well . I proudly support this Bill , and in do so , I will continue to work for an ambitious devolution settlement that meet the need of people in Ipswich , Suffolk and East Anglia . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as someone who be still a sit councillor . in fact , when I come into this place , I sit on three different council , so I speak from a good history of local council knowledge . this Bill focus on mayor , yet we hear about put power in the hand of local people . have a Mayor of Greater Manchester , which have a single identity , be quite different from have mayor in Devon , which be a vast area contain different sort of place — let alone , perhaps , a mayor of Devon and Cornwall . that be not power in local hand , and the idea that reorganise council will save money be a fallacy . we will see a few senior executive go , but the number of people on the bin , do the work in the street that need to be do across Devon , will not be reduce . reorganise council will not save money ; in fact , it will cost a huge amount of money , which be not be fund . the Government have claim that the measure in this Bill , include merge council , will save significant amount of money . however , the County Councils Network have reveal that reorganisation could make no saving and cost money . do my hon . friend agree that the measure in this Bill be base on out - of - date report that risk far bankrupt local authority ? I agree entirely with my hon . friend . however , in my remain minute , I will focus on two or three other area that be not cover by my hon . friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) . in all the power and broad strategic aim of this Bill , the key role play by town and parish council be forget ; in fact , the Bill barely mention they . it also omit the role play by our national park authority . Parish and town council be the first port of call for resident . they be close to the ground and most responsive to the day - to - day need of their community — these be the truly local hand . as district council disappear , their local asset of less significant value to the new unitary authority will likely suffer , or be overlook or sell off without consider local input from the town or parish council , despite any change to the community right to buy , whose success — as we have hear — be few and far between . this Bill must contain a statutory obligation to work with the most local and community - root body , which be our parish and town council . a duty to co - operate must be put into the Bill . neighbourhood committee or area , as vaguely set out as they be in the Bill , may play a part in keep planning and other function local within the wide unitary geography , but they must also consider and work with the town and parish council that they cover . this must be a statutory requirement . the Bill allow mayor to convene partner and request collaboration , but those be discretionary power . they may be use , or they may be ignore . there be no enforceable duty and no statutory requirement to co - operate , and that be a profound weakness . national park authority be mention not once in the Bill , yet they carry the legal responsibility for some of our most precious landscape . national park authority , such as Dartmoor , have a majority of member from a mix of local authority — five , in Dartmoor ' s case — and a minority of government - appoint member . without change , if Dartmoor end up completely within the boundary of a new unitary , it would effectively be manage as part of that unitary and lose its unique identity . its planning authority will be overridden and its strategic vision may be subsume . we must protect Dartmoor and the other park for people to freely access and enjoy , and not let greed rip thing apart for mere profit . the Bill must address how these authority will maintain independence and protect the identity of the area they serve . another miss opportunity be the need to make the provision of public toilet a statutory responsibility . too often , council in financial difficulty cut these vital facility , and in Devon we know that there will be no money leave over once the special educational need and disability overspend have be pay for by the carefully manage district and their reserve . it will still be a case of there be no money leave . finally , I welcome the return of the alternative vote for mayor , but urge the Government to go far and introduce full proportional representation for all the new unitary council , make every vote count . I congratulate the Deputy Prime Minister on bring forward this Bill , which embed our ambition and champion the promise of devolution . it will mark the big transfer of power from Whitehall to our region in a generation . it mean that the protection of our public space will result in the improvement of our infrastructure and the strengthening of our local economy . devolution should promote local accountability and bring decision maker close to the people who feel the impact , and I wholeheartedly welcome the part of the Bill that will ensure that . the creation of a community right to buy , offer more oversight on local policing and place a duty on authority to improve health and reduce health inequality be also welcome step in the right direction . the spirit of the Bill be one we should all support . I bring clause 57 to the Government ' s attention . it effectively abolish the committee structure and introduce a measure that will impact on Sheffield , one of 38 council run under the committee governance system . More than 80 , 000 people in a democratic referendum in Sheffield vote decisively in favour of a modern committee structure over the leader and cabinet model that clause 57 impose . through the referendum , Sheffield citizen choose collaboration through their committee , instead of decision - make power be concentrate in few hand . six year on from that referendum , the committee system work for Sheffield . it have deliver meaningful scrutiny where it be lack before , and it have prove its worth in those moment where public trust have be under threat . however , we be not here to discuss the merit and disadvantage of these two model of local governance . what matter be that resident have make a democratic decision at a local level , and it be important for that mandate to be respect and uphold . if the Bill pass in its current form , Sheffield be one of several council that will be force to undo those year of democratic engagement . I have receive countless email from constituent and campaigner , such as it ' s our City ! , who have stress just how important this democratic engagement have be for Sheffield , and they be right . one size do not fit all , and the LGA echo that view . the hon . Member be make an extremely informed and important point in her speech . do she agree that for Sheffield and her council the committee system have be well , more inclusive and more democratic for her resident than the original cabinet system ? do she endorse the view that any council that want to go down a committee route , or any community that have already decide to do so should retain that right ? the point that I be go to make be about exist committee structure retain their model , rather than about new committee . the Local Government Association have also call for council to be able to retain their structure until local community choose otherwise , and for my constituent , similarly , this be a matter of principle . until the people of Sheffield choose another structure in another referendum , as promise , their decision should be allow to stand , with the same flexibility that be be offer to those who choose to directly elect council mayor . there be still time to reflect that flexibility in the Bill , so I ask the Deputy Prime Minister to meet my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) and I , as well as our local council leader , to discuss the impact that these proposal will have on our community and their trust in local governance and , more importantly , to ensure that devolution work for Sheffield . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which state that I be a sit member of East Cambridgeshire district council . we can surely all agree that power should be devolve as close to community as possible , because they know what be good for their area far well than anyone else . strong and empower parish , city and principal council that be accountable to resident help our democracy and make well decision for the community that they serve . sadly , the Bill do not deliver that . although the Government ' s intention of devolution by default be commendable , the Bill represent centralisation by choice . instead of provide for genuine decentralisation of power to community , it empower regional mayor at the expense of local council , and the Secretary of State . local councillor have express concern , include about the uncertainty that these proposal have cause at a time when council be try to set their budget amid the wide crisis in local government funding , and fear that big authority , particularly in rural community , will lead to weak connection with the area they serve . the Bill have cause considerable uncertainty locally because it come at a time when integrate care board be be change , which mean that relationship with key health partner be be doubly unsettled . councillor in my constituency fear that because the Bill have be draft hastily , it will not fix some obvious anomaly in our exist boundary , such as what some people have call the " Newmarket bite " . the town of Newmarket be almost completely surround by my constituency . many of my resident look to Newmarket for some of their service , and many in Newmarket look to Cambridgeshire for some of theirs . Newmarket and the surround village should have have the opportunity to choose between a Cambridgeshire - base and a Suffolk - base unitary . I be particularly concerned about the Bill ' s provision to enable mayor of strategic authority to appoint seven unelected commissioner to deliver specific area of policy . we already have an establish system for that very purpose . in most council , we have an administration consist of elect councillor , from which the leader of the council choose a small group to form their cabinet . in other council , we have committee that be responsible for oversight of policy area . like an early speaker , I be also worried about the Government ' s plan to impose a leader and cabinet model on these authority . East Cambridgeshire district council have keep the committee system because that be what our resident tell we they want . we can not have a Minister tell we that we can not run ourselves in the way our local community want . appointing commissioner ride roughshod over the current system of democratically elect council by allow mayor to nominate unelected commissioner to lead on policy . how can the public hold these commissioner to account , if not at the ballot box ? who will scrutinise their judgment call ? how can we improve the transparency of their decision making at a political level ? the Bill be a miss opportunity to meaningfully decentralise power to our community and make a fundamental shift in where power lie in this country . where the Government be claim to make devolution the default , they have introduce centralisation . these proposal weaken exist system of accountability , and even in part of the Bill where progress be make , such as on electoral reform , it tinker at the edge . we urgently need a system where every vote count , so we need proportional representation . true devolution come as a result of grassroots consultation root in community . top - down attempt at devolution , such as this Bill , sadly end in be well wide of the mark . People in my constituency do not want to be force into a unitary authority that be , on the one hand , too big to understand local need and , on the other hand , too small to cover the area where they work , spend leisure time and receive healthcare . they do not want decision to be take by appoint commissioner rather than elect councillor . they would value real devolution and a proper say in the change they want . I urge the Government to reconsider this Bill so that it deliver the devolution in England that people want . I enormously welcome this Bill . it be a thoroughly rare thing for a government to seek to actively give up power , but this Government understand that we be go to deliver an economy that work for everyone , with a new way of govern that shift power away from Westminster once and for all . at its heart , this Bill be about put power back in the hand of community , recognise that decision should be make by those who know their community well and who be fully accountable for the consequence of those decision . for somewhere like Lancashire , this Bill be a great opportunity to address the fundamental issue that have hold we back for so long . my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) explain the dysfunctional nature of Lancashire eloquently , but I will recap : we have 12 district council , two unitarie , a county council , and a police and crime commissioner . this confusing two - tier structure — hollow out by austerity , with little accountability and remote , fragmented decision making — sit in stark contrast with the clarity of leadership and devolve resource of our neighbouring city region . we have have to watch Manchester , Liverpool and West Yorkshire forge ahead while we have be stick in the slow lane . this live reality be the status quo that the Conservatives — include the shadow Secretary of State , who be no long in his place — have seek to defend and maintain , but this Bill give we a chance to change all that . it be a chance to take back control and empower our community , and a chance to rebuild local government — to make it more effective and to save money that can be reinveste in local service . it be a chance to bring in resource that can turbocharge growth and deliver on our potential . I urge Lancashire leader to work together with a sense of urgency in order to grasp this once - in - a - lifetime opportunity . but there be an additional challenge . even with clear determination from local leader , it will be at least two year until Lancashire have a mayor and a restructure combined authority . it be likely to take much long before we have the sort of capacity and capability that be already in place in the like of Liverpool and Manchester . in that time , those city region will move far ahead . the risk be that Lancashire will fall far behind , yet as the new Lancashire growth plan show , there be a bright future for the county if we have the tool to create it . the plan identify 12 transformational project that will be game changer for we , range from transport infrastructure to world - class innovation zone . overall , the propose project pipeline have the potential to attract over £ 20 billion of additional investment to our county , but as thing stand these be just bold idea and possibility . take they to the stage where they be fully work - up , investable proposal require the sort of capacity and capability that Lancashire no long have . that be in contrast with our neighbouring city region , which have be able to use devolve resource to have full business case and shovel - ready project ready and wait for the green light . we can see the result , with the vast majority of infrastructure pipeline project locate within strategic mayoral authority . the stark contrast between the investment in established mayoral authority and in area like Lancashire , which be just start the devolution process , risk embed inequality in our region . place like Lancashire can not wait until the devolved authority be in place . to stop inequality take root , we need support now to ensure that we can progress our transformational project and deliver on our growth potential . the recent Green Book review rather fortunately recognise this issue and helpfully identify some way of address it , include expand the Treasury ' s well business case programme , progress the National Wealth Fund ' s strategic partnership programme and , crucially , secondment from central Government to the region . that be exactly what we need in Lancashire so that we can start to deliver on our growth plan , with our project take their place in the infrastructure pipeline . although I strongly welcome the Bill and call again on council to come together to seize the opportunity it offer , I ask the Government to work with Lancashire mps and local leader to ensure that Lancashire receive the up - front support we need to start to catch up with our neighbour and to play our full and rightful role in deliver growth and prosperity for all our community . democracy matter ; accountability matter . I be afraid that this Bill strip away both . at the heart of this Government ' s attempt reform lie a democratic deficit where planning committee lose their power ; councillor may scrutinise but can not decide ; and local council be diminish , while in their place a mayor be hand sweeping power over planning , housing , infrastructure and even development order . this be not devolution downwards to community ; it be centralisation . let we be absolutely clear . in the west midland , the Labour Mayor have show time and again that his focus be on Birmingham , not community such as mine in Aldridge - Brownhills . this Bill will entrench that imbalance . it give a licence to concrete over the green belt and drive a coach and horse through local democracy , leave the elect Member of Parliament with no formal way of hold the mayor to account or even to question his decision . the Government say that this Bill empower local community , but they have cut the very funding that make neighbourhood planning possible . the neighbourhood planning programme , support by the National Association of Local Councils , help more than 2 , 000 community to write neighbourhood plan , yet minister have scrap it — at a time when they seek to railroad development across community . the NALC be right that this move by the Government weaken the very tier of democracy that should be strengthen . it be not empowerment ; it be a contradiction . my constituent know exactly what that mean . Aldridge - Brownhills be all too often treat as the dumping ground for housing number decide elsewhere . do my right hon . friend agree that the Government ' s devolution proposal be an urban - base model that can not be apply to rural area without fundamentally distort the character of that area ? my hon . friend hit the nail on the head . his community , not dissimilar to mine , be on the edge of a large urban area — the west midland ; Birmingham — and yet we be not deeply rural . we be at real risk of be subsume into the suburb of Walsall or Birmingham with no say in the matter . my constituent know what this all mean , with community feel " do to " , not " work with " . we have see what happen when contradictory housing target be impose from above . take the Black Country plan , which be mean to be a model of strategic planning , but it collapse . it fall apart because resident across the Black Country lose confidence , and rightly so — it be plain wrong . the Bill repeat the same mistake , introduce power to push development through , ride roughshod over local objection and concrete over our community ' green space . look at the imbalance : Birmingham ' s housing target be fall while Walsall ' s be rise by 27 % . my constituency be tell to take the strain as our second city offload its number . it be not devolution , but displacement , and it will only deepen distrust . take Stonnall Road , Longwood Road , Longwood Lane and Bosty Lane ; the list of speculative planning application across my constituency go on and on — and all this before the Planning and Infrastructure Bill and even this piece of legislation have be enact . if this government be serious about empowerment , they would have put a brownfield - first duty into their reform , but they choose not to . the west midland have hundred of hectare of derelict land that could be bring back into use , and there be fund for this already : the brownfield housing fund , the national competitive fund and the brownfield , infrastructure and land fund . however , there be no requirement for the mayor to use those fund first before launch into our precious green belt and green wedge . without a statutory brownfield - first duty , we know that developer will always go for the easy option first . take the Birch Lane proposal in Aldridge — hundred of home on green - belt land now rebrande as grey belt . it be precisely the kind of inappropriate development this Bill will make it hard to resist , with local consultee weaken and mayoral power strengthen . this government be not build community ; they be divide they . what about infrastructure ? my constituent be promise Aldridge train station — as many member know , I talk a lot about that . funding be secure and the business case make , yet the Labour mayor divert the money elsewhere . if he can not deliver on those commitment , why should this House be hand he more ? there be serious question to answer about what exactly be grey belt . regulation suggest that it can be use to redefine a green - belt site with building on three side . that should alarm all of we in this place . we in Aldridge - Brownhills be now at serious risk of be subsume within a Greater Birmingham and a Greater Walsall . do not get I wrong , we do need house , but let we give it some thought . let we put they in the right place and let we not lose our identity or our community because of Government diktat — because that be exactly what it be . this government be make a complete mockery of what we call green belt and green wedge , which be there to protect community from urban sprawl . and all this at a time when Birmingham city council can not even empty its bin . the mayor have wash his hand of it and the Deputy Prime Minister do not seem interested . this Bill be not devolution or empowerment . quite simply , it be a developer ' s dream and a neighbourhood nightmare , and I shall be vote against it tonight . have serve as a town councillor and deputy mayor before my election to this House , I have witness at first hand the critically overdue need for reform of our local and very local council system . Town , parish and very local council have be plague by inefficiency and toothless standard for too long , which be why I particularly support the reform of our local audit system outline in the Bill . my experience , and those regale to I by other over the year , have underscore the urgent need for an overhaul to ensure transparency , efficiency and accountability within our local governance structure . the Government ' s commitment to reform the local audit system be both timely and essential . the Bill prioritise the establishment of a more coherent and reliable audit framework , which will undoubtedly build trust within our community and foster a more robust democratic process . by address these systemic challenge , we be send a clear message that council must be accountable and that the integrity of their operation be paramount . furthermore , these reform represent a significant step towards great devolution , empower town and parish council , such as those in North Somerset , to take decisive action tailor to the unique need of their local . however , we must go far . it be crucial to introduce great accountability through a compliance scoring system that clearly indicate to the public whether their elect representative be undertake good practice and demonstrate financial competence with their money . internal audit parameter should be set nationally to ensure consistency and transparency , and we should focus on establish effective minimum standard for councillor , ensure that there be proper consequence when acceptable behaviour be breach . that would not just improve outcome for local community , but restore confidence in our local democracy . it would also help to alleviate the ongoing issue with recruitment and retention of town and parish clerk nationally , who be the impartial and objective legal adviser to the very local council and be task with ensure that those council operate lawfully . I be sure that many colleague will have be make aware of the totally unacceptable behaviour that some town and parish clerk be subject to , which be enable by a lack of effective recourse against the perpetrator . the ongoing loss of highly train and experienced expert be a great loss to the sector . this recruitment crisis also hit the number willing to stand for very local council , as potential councillor face the same unacceptable behaviour . we need professional regulation for councillor as an important first step . monitoring officer must be properly fund through professional regulation fee pay by council base on the number of councillor . this would enable monitor officer to perform their vital oversight function effectively . we can not continue the current slide towards empty council chamber across our town and village , decline community involvement , and , in some area , poor standard of behaviour and conduct . the Localism Act 2011 that come into force during the coalition Government dismantle essential structure of accountability by abolish the Standards Board for England . since then , power to suspend councillor who breach standard have be repeal , leave council with no substantive recourse against poor conduct . there be now no recourse against poor standard of behaviour . this legislative deficiency have allow pocket of inadequate behaviour to persist unchallenged , undermine the very essence of local government . we must take this opportunity to effect new system and process and to foster a new model of accountable politic at the local and very local level . I have see myself how unacceptable behaviour in local council can go entirely unchecked , erode trust . the Bill represent a chance to establish a high standard and ensure that we have appropriate people serve our community , cut out the rot in some of our council . if town and parish council be to play a large role in the devolution of local service , which undoubtedly bring the benefit of great ownership and influence to local community , it be essential that all council be effectively hold to the same high standard . I wish to point out that there be very many local council across the country that do a fabulous job , and there be some great one in my constituency . they be govern extremely well and enrich their community , but the minority of council risk tarnish the wide reputation of the sector and create a disparity in community benefit . this Bill represent the foundation that we should build on to do well in order to establish proper standard at the local level of democracy and ensure that we have appropriate people serve our community . as I be sure all member in this place do , I support the principle of devolution and empowerment — two of the word on the face of the Bill — but this Bill be about centralisation and disempowerment . for the Isle of Wight , it be about fuse our island with Hampshire under a combine mayoral authority , where 93 % of the population live in Hampshire on the mainland and just 7 % live on the island . there be no empowerment , because island people will not have a say . this plan be last crystalise under the previous Labour Government , who give islander a say through a local referendum . islander vote no , and the previous Labour Government respect that vote . this government do not respect my constituent enough to ask they whether they be happy to be fuse with a much , much large county that sit across the water . it be centralise because my local authority , the Isle of Wight council , will lose some of its power . it will lose power over strategic planning , so a mayor who represent largely Hampshire voter will be able to allocate more housing on the island , and any mayor who be interested in get re - elect will , of course , be responsive to the much large voter cohort in Hampshire . there be three particularly offensive thing about the Bill that the Government be impose on my constituent . our police authority be call Hampshire and Isle of Wight . our health commission body be call Hampshire and Isle of Wight . our fire and rescue service be call Hampshire and Isle of Wight . the vast majority of organisation that operate across our two county be name after our two county — Hampshire and Isle of Wight . this government be go to call our mayoral combine authority Hampshire and Solent , potentially remove our name from all the organisation that the mayor will end up have power over — from our police , our fire and rescue service , our health commission body , and who know what in the future . that will be do without anyone on the Isle of Wight have a say . the second offensive thing about this proposal for my constituency be the power that it give the mayor over local transport . the authority will have Solent in the title , yet the mayor will get no contingent power over the big transport issue face my resident : cross the Solent on ferry . Solent be in the name of the combine authority , but the mayor will get no power over ferry . our ferry be the only unregulated , entirely privatised , foreign - own , debt - laden key transport provider in the UK . the Government be prepared to nationalise railway , extend the arm of Government in bus and put more money into road , but they be not prepared to do anything about my constituent be leave at the mercy of foreign - own , debt - laden company . I will acknowledge that they have use some warm word , and the Minister have visit the island , but this be the opportunity to deliver on those word and put power in the hand of the mayor to regulate cross - solent transport . to make a really important point on ringfenced funding , because the Isle of Wight will be fuse with Hampshire , the mayor will be able to spend money as they wish across a homogeneous single zone . there be no special provision in the Bill to ensure there be ringfence funding for the Isle of Wight that can not be raid for Hampshire . the local integrate care board be already raid money from our hospice to spend on Hampshire hospice . in the mayoral deal , we need power to stop that from happen . finally , in the consultation of my constituent on the key issue of transport , the F - word — ferry — be not mention even once . Meur ras , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 5 March this year , the Prime Minister stand at the Dispatch Box and say these word : " we do recognise Cornish national minority status — not just the proud language , history and culture of Cornwall , but its bright future . " — [ Official Report , 5 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 278 . ] since arrive in this place on the back of a pledge to ensure Cornwall be give the devolved power and funding that we have be crave for century , and in line with our manifesto commitment to deliver on the great ever devolution power out of Westminster , today be a significant milestone . with the Prime Minister ' s commitment to Cornish national minority status clearly reaffirm , I support a Bill that deliver tangible devolution to Cornwall . however , I would like to explore clarification on the implication of the Bill for the people of Cornwall . Madam Deputy Speaker , the land that you call Cornwall we know as Kernow , a term believe to have be in use for over 2 , 000 year that mean " people of the promontory " . however , the english word Cornwall have a different meaning : it mean " peninsula of foreigner " . for century , the English have recognise the people of the land at the end of the peninsula as different from they . right up to modern time , the UK Government have continue to honour the distinct territorial integrity of Cornwall , treat we in unique and exceptional way . our constitutional status be perhaps most clearly outline in a newspaper article in 2013 by the House of Lords researcher Kevin Cahill , who state that " the whole territorial interest and dominion of the Crown in and over the entire county of Cornwall be vest in the Duke of Cornwall … so Cornwall be a separate kingdom . " he continue : " I know the Cornish have be shout about this for a long time , but they turn out to be right . " the creation of the Duchy of Cornwall in 1337 recognise the distinct history , identity and territory of Cornwall , a unique and exceptional constitutional settlement that we enjoy to the present day . in recent time , Cornwall have be the first rural area outside Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland to gain a devolution settlement over aspect of transport , education and renewable energy . more recently it have do so over adult education , Cornish distinctiveness and the cornish language . indeed , Cornwall already enjoy some of the benefit offer by the Bill for mayoral combine authority . I be often ask — even by colleague in this place — whether as a Cornishman I consider myself english . along with hundred of thousand of Cornishmen and woman , I be often sadly mock for my reply . let I be absolutely clear today : I be cornish , not English , although I freely admit that some of my very good friend be English . to those at home , particularly young people , who have be equally ridicule , I say , " be loud and proud . it be okay to consider yourself cornish and british . " let I deal with the issue of identity versus status . cornish national minority status and cornish identity be sometimes conflate , but when discuss the former , reference to identity can sometimes be consider belittle . it be not about identity ; it be about a legally bind national minority status . our status , formally agree by the Council of Europe 10 year ago , must be respect , uphold and celebrate . Meur ra — I be grateful to the hon . member for give way . he will be aware that in previous Parliaments I lead campaign to secure the recognition of the cornish language and the cornish people . do he agree that this be not an issue of isolationism ? it be not about cut ourselves off , but about cut ourselves into the celebration of diversity and have the identity of a place properly recognise and respect so that it can grow rather than be supresse . surely devolution be about enable place rather than control they , which be what I fear this Bill will do . as a result of our geographical location , for century we have be a safe harbour — a port in the storm — for people from all over the world . we be an inclusive society . let I get straight to the nub of the issue . the Council of Europe framework convention for the protection of national minority make it very clear . article 16 say : " the party shall refrain from measure which alter the proportion of the population in area inhabit by person belong to national minority and be aim at restrict the right and freedom flow from the principle enshrine in the present framework Convention . " in 2016 , when pass comment on the then Government ' s plan for redrawe boundary , the Council of Europe advisory committee on the framework convention highlight " that article 16 prohibit restrict the enjoyment of the right of the Framework Convention in connection with the redrawing of border . " in the Bill as draft , Cornwall be prevent from access the high level of devolution , because to do so would require we to compromise our national minority status . during the passage of the Bill , I will work with the Government to ensure that the Bill as pass respect cornish national minority status and deliver an historic devolution arrangement that fulfil our manifesto commitment ; provide for the economic development support that we need to unleash the cornish celtic tiger ; give we the funding and resource to deal with our crippling housing crisis ; and celebrate Cornish national minority status . this responsibility weigh not just on the mind . for we , this be not just about functional local government ; it go way deeply into our soul , to a century - old desire for increase autonomy and self - governance in our place on this multinational island . I urge Ministers : together , let we grasp this once - in - a - generation opportunity . when the Government get something right , it be important to acknowledge that . the community right - to - buy provision in the Bill represent the genuine empowerment that constituent need . I therefore acknowledge that . in my constituency , I have a village community that be desperate to buy the local pub — an asset of community value that have be up for sale for some time . they have raise the fund for the ask price and they have community support , but the owner simply refuse to sell to they . under the current system , they have no right of purchase and no right of refusal , and although they have raise the money , more time to organise the complex legal and financial arrangement require for community ownership would have be appreciate . the new community right - to - buy provision in the Bill be therefore welcome . just as the Bill get community empowerment right in one policy area , it miss the opportunity to do so in many other . I draw a contrast with one in particular : the skill architecture . the Bill create new skill responsibility for strategic authority without clarify how they will co - ordinate with the national role of Skills England — another new body — or the exist employer - lead local skill improvement plan , or lsip . we have a system in which Skills England set national priority , lsip identify local employer need and strategic authority deliver adult education funding , but the Bill have no clear mechanism for ensure that those layer align or avoid costly duplication . this fragmentation be compound by the separation of adult skill from the broad skill and education ecosystem . the Bill devolve responsibility for adult education to strategic authority but leave 16 - to - 19 education with central Government and provide no clear role at all for university in local economic development . this be despite the Education Secretary herself call for university to make a strong contribution to economic growth through close alignment to skill need and economic growth plan . how can we develop coherent local skill strategy when we artificially separate the pipeline that feed skilled employment ? the funding arrangement be also concern . strategic authority will hold the adult skill budget but have only joint ownership of the LSIPs that should guide their spending priority . it be difficult to see how democratically accountable body can be responsible for outcome when they lack control over the full planning process . furthermore , current LSIP boundary do not align with the propose strategic authority boundary , and the Government ' s solution appear to be to hope that it all work out in the end . the Bill provide no mechanism for resolve conflict and no timeline for achieve the geographical coherence that effective planning require . possibly most troubling be the absence of any performance framework link those different institutional layer . strategic authority must produce local growth plan , but there be no requirement for they to align with LSIPs or with Skills England workforce forecasting . we risk have three different body in each area produce conflicting skill priority with no clear co - ordination mechanism . that be a recipe for confusion , waste and ultimately a failure to address the skill shortage that our economy desperately need to resolve . I want to draw a contrast , so here it be . on community asset , the Bill trust local people and provide clear , enforceable right . however , on skill — one of the most critical challenge face our economy — it create institutional complexity and lack accountability and clear line of responsibility . I hope the Government will go away and think again , and come back with a more coherent approach that actually deliver the local responsiveness on skill that community and our economy so desperately need . the UK be one of the most centrally run country in the world . for decade , Whitehall have make every major decision on growth and investment , while the community impact be too often an afterthought . this have leave community poorer and trap , play a game that they can never win . for region such as mine , physically the furth away in England , it have mean that we have feel remove from decision and decision making . this Bill be a chance to change that failure . in the north - east , during her first year , our Mayor Kim McGuinness have launch important local project include tackle child poverty and bring bus back into public control , but she be unable to tackle some of the big economic challenge that we face because she do not have the power to change they . this Bill make it easy for the Mayor to decide how local money be spend by put the pen in local hand , so that our own priority come first , rather than an agree list make year ago with Whitehall . this will allow the Mayor to create a growth plan show where investment be need most , so that Westminster can follow that lead . the north - east growth plan set our priority so that we can then work with this Government to deliver the project identify . by create these local growth plan , the Government can see the share priority in area such as advanced manufacturing , clean energy and digital innovation . region be able to create a list of project ready for investment ; we know where the blockage be in our area because we live with they every single day . of course , one such priority that politician , business and community have identify for our region be the case of Moor Farm roundabout in my constituency — something I have speak about many time in this place . it have already be identify as a priority , because upgrade it would not only address the misery that it cause for local people every day , but unlock investment in manufacturing , clean energy and housing and support business growth . alongside change in the Green Book to a local place - base business case , we can ensure that we approach these priority with a cross - departmental , mission - lead approach . for too long , departmental silos have prevent a cross - Government approach , but now we can ensure that the like of the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , the Department for Transport , the Department for Business and Trade and the Treasury work together with regional leader to deliver local priority . it be not just new mayoral power that we benefit from . I be absolutely thrilled to see in the Bill step to protect community and community sport for the future . the Bill take heavily from one that I introduce in May , create a change to safeguard sporting asset of community value . it would automatically protect football club , leisure centre and other sport facility by give local community the first chance to buy they if they go up for sale . just briefly , as my hon . friend explain about the sporting , economic and social interest , do she believe that environmental interest should also be take into account ? that would allow community to claim other different type of fund and also to protect the environment . my hon . friend make an interesting point . we should look at what community prioritise and make consideration as to what they value . go back to sporting asset in particular , there be over 6 , 000 sport ground in England alone . protect they under the current system be complex , bury in red tape and make far too difficult . it have mean that few than 100 sport facility be protect community asset across the country , mean that almost 99 % of sport facility across the country can not be preserve if developer try to buy up land . we want to give people the authority to make decision about their own area . this summer I be absolutely delighted to visit so many facility in my constituency : Cramlington Rockets , Burradon Juniors and Backworth Hall cricket club , as well as work with the like of Hazlerigg Victory , Wideopen football club and many more . these club and facility be at the heart of our community , provide not just sport but community activity , run holiday club and be a welcoming community space . they be the lifeblood of many of the village and town across the Cramlington and Killingworth constituency . I be delighted that this Government be protect these vital pillar in the community that be so important to local people . for too long , Whitehall have leave community and region like mine trap and poor because decision be not take with they in mind . this government be change that with the big shift of power out of Westminster to the north - east and my community . it will boost growth , raise living standard and deliver service for local people . it be about give power to those who know our community well . I be delighted that this Labour Government be put our region , our community and our neighbourhood first . I rise to make the case for Kernow , or Cornwall , and its unique status in this United Kingdom . my constituent have be crystal clear with I : Cornwall must never be forcibly join with Devon or merge into any wide regional authority . but that be not to say that Cornwall want to go it alone . it be not about separatism at all ; this be about respect our distinct status and history . Cornwall have proudly partner with other UK region for decade . it have a proud and unique language , culture , history and — crucially — national minority status , which be grant over a decade ago . we be afford the same status as our celtic brother and sister in Scotland , Ireland and Wales , and so the people of Cornwall deserve a devolution deal that recognise that . this status be not just symbolic . it create a duty on public authority to promote equality for the cornish people , to support our culture , language and identity and , specifically , to avoid any assimilationist policy . under the UK ' s Equality Act 2010 and the public sector equality duty , Ministers and local authority alike must consider the impact of their decision , include in this Bill , on the cornish people . if they fail to do so , their action can be challenge in the court use an array of legal claim , include judicial review , an Equality Act claim and a Human Rights Act 1998 article 14 differential treatment claim . therefore , these right carry real legal and political weight . to disregard or dilute Cornwall ' s status in this Bill would be insulting , unlawful and dangerous . I be alarmed that the Bill would grant the Secretary of State power to force combined authority without local people ' s consent . devolution , in essence , should give power to the community , region and county that it aim to empower , not to a mayor , a Secretary of State or an unelected commissioner . at Prime Minister ' s question last October , the Prime Minister tell I that he believe that " those with skin in the game know what be good for their community . " — [ Official Report , 16 October 2024 ; Vol . 754 , c . 834 . ] the Secretary of State have repeat that today . I agree with they both : decision should be make for Cornwall and in Cornwall by a fully elect cornish assembly — and not in Plymouth , Bristol or Westminster . they should be make by those from within the duchy who understand our unique way of life and our unique economic and social challenge — the immense challenge of fund rural transport ; the unfair and unequal investment in our school over decade ; the plight of our farmer and fisher , who seem to be leave out in the cold by Government after Government ; and the enormous proliferation of second home and holiday let , which lock local people out of our housing market , generation after generation . in my office , I proudly display a famous painting of the cornish rebellion of 1497 . it illustrate the cornish spirit of fairness , justice and persistence , of proud cornish man and woman who have taxis impose upon they by the Government in London . that spirit live on . give Cornwall ' s history and that strength of feeling , if the Secretary of State impose a mayor of Devon and Cornwall — completely disregard Cornwall ' s national minority status , as well as legal battle — she might have a full uprising on her hand . the Bill would likely limit Cornwall to a foundation strategic authority with limited power , funding and control . that be why we be fight for a bespoke devolution deal . the Bill should have mechanism in place to allow such a bespoke deal to take place . Cornwall ' s mp look forward to work together for the good of Cornwall , onen hag oll — one and all — to make that happen . I call on the Government to fully respect Cornwall ' s national minority status ; to create a Minister for Cornwall , who could sit in the Wales Office ; to consider the feasibility of an elect cornish assembly instead of a mayor ; and to commit to a devolution deal that respect Cornwall ' s historic identity by exclude it from combined strategic authority with other region . Kernow bys vyken ! few matter have occupy as much of my first year in this House as the question of cornish devolution . for decade , if not century , the people of Cornwall have speak of their desire to have a great say in the decision that shape their life . that desire be found in our distinct need and our more than 1 , 000 - year - old national identity . that be why the arrival of the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill have be watch in Cornwall with keen anticipation and , in some quarter , with understandable apprehension . have pore over the text of the legislation , my conclusion be this : far from be the bulldozer that many fear , the Bill leave Cornwall ' s position intact . it formalise our single foundation status and — once and for all I hope — a single geography . crucially , it do not strip away the strategic power that Cornwall already exercise . Recognition of our national minority status be now firmly acknowledge in this place , and , as one of the large unitary authority in England by geographic footprint , we retain the ability to deliver many of the function that be only just be hand to combined or mayoral body elsewhere . do my hon . friend agree that the historic cornish constitutional status must be consider as part of the devolution discussion ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . on top of the many example he have give of Cornwall ' s constitutional status , and aside from our devolution arrangement with Westminster , the leader of Cornwall council be in 2023 give permission to attend ministerial meeting of the british - Irish Council , much like the other celtic nation and the Channel Islands . in the same year , Cornwall council and the Welsh Government sign a historic collaboration agreement , reflect the share culture of these two celtic nation . perhaps more weightily in this place , the Crowther and Kilbrandon report of the royal commission on the constitution in 1973 acknowledge that the creation of the Duchy of Cornwall in 1337 " establish a special and endure relationship between Cornwall and the Crown . use of the designation on all appropriate occasion would serve to recognise both this special relationship and the territorial integrity of Cornwall " . it go on to say that what the Cornish want be " recognition of the fact that Cornwall have a separate identity and that its traditional boundary shall be respect . " let I be clear : while the letter of the Bill do not necessarily offer the content of devolution that so many in Cornwall have long call for , I have no doubt that it will be very welcome in city and other region across England . but Cornwall be different : a remote coastal community , an exist administrative unit , a functional economic geography and a very good brand , if nothing else , as many member will know from their summer holiday . above all , Cornwall be a proud part of the United Kingdom with a distinct national identity , a resurgent language and a desire to be hear after century of dismissal . with the right power , we stand ready to not only shape our own future but help lead the way in a United Kingdom that value local voice and unlock prosperity across all nation and region . I greatly welcome the inclusion of new power such as the community right to buy . that be exactly the sort of measure that can put power back into local hand , give people in my constituency the chance to ensure that public asset like the Dolphin Inn in Grampound or the site of the former General Wolfe in St Austell and the Fowey community hospital remain in public hand and continue to serve local need . the hon . Member make a very strong case for Cornwall . he should urge his colleague in government to welcome amendment to the Bill that strengthen Cornwall ' s ability to achieve its unique and very special status , which we believe need to be enshrine in this legislation as well as the historic record . I agree with the hon . Gentleman that it be incredibly important that Cornwall ' s national minority status be respect by the Bill , and that the power and investment require to meet Cornwall ' s distinctive need — if not enshrine in the text — be consider as part of the devolution process in the month ahead . finally , we should acknowledge that while the Bill streamline England ' s devolution architecture , the mayoral model will not suit every part of our country . Cornwall have show for over 15 year as a unitary authority that there be other effective way to deliver devolved function . what we need now be a plan for Cornwall — one that equip we with the power we require over housing , transport , skill and industrial growth to meet the challenge we face . the truth be that the statutory framework set out in the Bill be not the central issue at stake . what really matter be that we secure a settlement for Cornwall that recognise our unique circumstance , protect our ability to make strategic decision for ourselves and give our community the tool to thrive . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I want to raise a few issue , all of which I know be very much on my constituent ' mind . first , I want to emphasise the importance of ensure that borough such as Reigate and Banstead , which have be manage well and be not load with debt , be not leave foot the bill for the failure of other council that have be less prudent with their finance . Reigate and Banstead borough council have a commendably strong record of financial prudence , so please will the Secretary of State reassure my constituent that protection will be put in place to safeguard our community asset , such as the Harlequin theatre , and our community and leisure centre ? on the Harlequin theatre specifically , I emphasise how important the asset be to the people of redhill and beyond . it have now be close for more than two year , follow the discovery of RAAC , and resident and community group — notably , the Harlequin Support Group — have be resolutely campaign for its repair and reopen . I be delighted that , under the leadership of Councillor Shelly Newton , who be one of the most tenacious local councillor I have ever come across , it have now be confirm that the £ 4 . 5 million need for repair have be allocate . all be well , the theatre be expect to reopen by Christmas 2026 . I mention that because my constituent would appreciate hear directly from the Secretary of State and Ministers that the local government reorganisation will not hamper such project , which have be agree but will take some time to complete . I also make the point that the reorganisation be not the only challenge face by Reigate and Banstead borough council , which have just have its housing target more than double by this Government , at a time of great uncertainty and transition — a recipe for disaster . I want to focus mainly , however , on the future of the civic mayoralty in Reigate and Banstead . Reigate have have a mayor since 1863 . great history and tradition be associate with the role , and the importance place on it can be see physically in the mayoral robe , the chain of office and the mace , which be still very much in use . the Government have be clear that their intention with the Bill be to provide a consistent model for how local government will be structure across England . what be rather less clear — I hope that the Minister or Secretary of State will be able to provide clarity — be what that mean for borough such as mine , where a borough council be intermeshe with a long - stand tradition of civic leadership in the form of a borough mayor . unlike metro mayor , the mayor of the borough of Reigate and Banstead be no kind of political executive . the role be that of a civic figurehead , non - partisan , ceremonial and community focus . we have a truly outstanding mayor , Councillor Rich Michalowski , and , before he , Councillor Eddy Humphreys be another dedicated and hard - work public servant . in the past civic year alone , the mayor respond to more than 350 engagement request , host 25 town hall tour for school and community group , and oversee 32 civic and charity event attend by nearly 1 , 500 people , not include the thousand more who attend Remembrance Sunday . the position of borough mayor do real , practical good . their attendance at an event bring that extra sparkle , which resident so appreciate . through the mayor ' s trust fund , 38 family in my constituency have already be support with grant this year . a single funding workshop lead by the mayor ' s team unlock more than £ 50 , 000 for local charity . through sustained community engagement , the mayor help connect employer with jobseeker , donor with good cause , and school with mentor . they promote local artist , support care home , champion the armed force covenant , and offer practical help to resident in crisis . I hope that Ministers will agree with my constituent in recognise the great value of a borough mayor , and that they will provide clarity on whether such role will be preserve under the Bill and , if so , how in practical term that will be achieve . it be a pleasure to speak on what may prove to be one of the most impactful and transformative piece of legislation of this Parliament . the Bill represent one of the most significant shift in local government in more than half a century . it set out a clear ambition to move power out of Westminster and into the hand of local leader who know their community well . for area such as Cheshire and Warrington , that have the potential finally to give we the tool we need to unlock our full potential and to deliver real , tangible benefit for our community . on transport alone , the opportunity be to talk no long about the decline in bus service but about how we be provide new route ; and to hear , instead of that we have be campaign for a bridge or railway link for 40 year , " we have a plan to deliver . " on skill , instead of the 92 % drop in adult education starter that have occur in my area between 2015 and 2020 , we can talk about how we will fix that . it be important to recognise , however , that the approach set out in the Bill be not without risk for Cheshire and Warrington with respect to police service . the Bill give power to the Home Secretary to redraw the police boundary to match the mayoral combine authority . there be no consensus in Cheshire that Cheshire police should be reorganise to exclude Halton , which be currently part of the Liverpool city region . indeed , quite the reverse : it be feel that such a move would be explicitly bad for Halton and would damage the viability of the remainder of Cheshire police . when the Minister sum up , I hope he will provide reassurance that there will be a full consultation before Cheshire police be reorganise , and that it will not be reorganise against the wish of its community ? let I turn to the Bill ' s provision on adult education . the new duty place on strategic authority to secure appropriate facility for the education and training of adult age 19 and over be a welcome step . in the focus group that I have run with technology business across Cheshire and the wide north - west , there have be a clear divide between mayoral area and non - mayoral area , where — with some exception — business do not feel that there be a good understanding of their need , nor a plan to deliver on they . the mayoral combine authority present an opportunity not only to fix that , but to think strategically about take advantage of project like HyNet , which will require mile of new hydrogen pipeline and people with the right skill to build it . an important gap that the Bill do not address be post - 16 education . local authority currently have a duty to secure enough suitable education and training provision to meet the reasonable need of all young people in their area who be over compulsory school age , but they lack any power to deliver this and neither can they meaningfully affect how further education be organise . that be a real challenge , particularly in my constituency , which have be leave with big gap in provision follow the 2016 review into post - 16 education in Cheshire and Warrington , contribute to NEET level in Winsford be five percentage point high than the borough - wide average . there be an opportunity for the mayoral combine authority to deliver well outcome for young people in my constituency , but it need the power to do so . I urge Ministers to work with colleague in the Department for Education so that we can use mayor to tackle entrench inequality and ensure that every young person , regardless of background , have access to high - quality education and training that prepare they for the future . this Bill be not just a handover of power , but a partnership between central Government and local community — between elect leader and the people they serve . for Cheshire and Warrington , it be a chance to lead by example , and to show what empower community can achieve when give the freedom to flourish . I also use to be a councillor , like many member across the Chamber . I be deputy leader of Chelmsford city council for five year and an opposition member at Essex county council . I have see at first hand the work of local council and I know that they do it in very difficult circumstance — circumstance that have get hard and hard , with dwindle fund and increase demand on council service . despite the very good effort of council leader across the country and council officer , who be often the unsung hero local government , there be crisis in housing , in special educational need and in adult social care . we do not seem to have a plan to fix any of they , yet we seem to be rush ahead with local government reorganisation and devolution , which to I seem a bit like put the cart before the horse . be the good way to fix the crisis in special educational need or in adult social care , or to truly deliver all the housing we need a different form of local government ? why be these really important issue not part of the mix ? why do we not have a plan to fix they first — before we reorganise local government and trap ourselves in a corner ? I be in favour of devolution : it be right to have power close to the people it affect . I want local community to be empower , but this Bill do not deliver that . in fact , although it devolve power relate to transport and skill — and other thing in the Bill be good , too — the local government reorganisation that go with those measure mean that this legislation do the exact opposite of deliver devolution . let we take Essex as an example . I choose Essex because I represent the constituency of Chelmsford in the very heart of Essex , because I use to be an Essex county councillor and because Essex be in the first wave of reorganisation . Essex will not benefit from the scrapping of first past the post , so my constituent will not benefit from their vote truly be represent . there be a proposal to replace Essex county council plus the district council with either three , four or five unitarie . if we include the other exist unitarie plus Essex county council , we be talk about 15 council in total . replace they with possibly three unitarie would be the exact opposite of devolution ; it would take power away from the people and make the councillor elect to represent the people far away from they . I be delighted to hear the hon . Lady ' s speech . she and I be both Essex mp , and I agree that we should not create these huge unitary authority , because local council be truly in touch with local community and local need . however , do she agree that as Havering be also part of Essex , we should be part of that discussion as well ? if my borough want to be part of an Essex unitary authority — such as Central Essex , which would include Chelmsford — do she agree that my constituent should have the right to make that decision in a democracy ? absolutely . my problem with this Bill be that it feel rush . More people want to contribute to the discussion . constituent want to be represent and to have local government reorganise in a way that they have be able to contribute to . that would truly be democracy . what we be see right now be rush and be not a proper representation of democracy . the three - unitary model be not the only propose model . that be be propose by the county council , but the model that have the most support from the local district council — nine of they — be the five - unitary model . I certainly support that , because if we have to go ahead with local government reorganisation , surely it should be with the model that keep power close to people . will the hon . Lady clarify if she would support the people of Havering if they choose to be part of an Essex unitary authority — if that be their democratically choose wish ? I think we be in danger of get into the weed on exactly how local government would be reorganise . we talk about the size of the unitary authority that would be create . the three - unitary model in Essex would instantly create three of the top five big unitary authority in the country ; after growth , they would be three of the top four big unitary authority . it would create enormous council with considerably less connection with the local community they serve . that be the opposite of devolution , and I worry a lot about the loss of identity that it could lead to . a lot of the talk be about saving . the Deputy Prime Minister talk a bit about saving from reorganisation , but there be very little evidence to support that use real - world datum . past model produce by consultancy have not use real - world datum . however , accord to real - world datum , if the five - unitary model be choose , local government reorganisation be expect to save only £ 105 million across the whole of Essex after five year . if the three - unitary model be choose , we will end up with £ 49 million less than that . this be a huge undertaking , with a lot of resource go in for very little , and we still do not have a plan for special educational need , adult social care and all the thing I mention early . the really important point be that Greater Essex contain Thurrock , which have a very , very big debt problem : about £ 800 million of unsecured debt . there be no model of local government reorganisation or devolution in Greater Essex — even keep the exist structure , frankly — that would be financially sustainable without central Government step in and provide fund to cover Thurrock ' s debt . the math simply do not work . I be look directly at the Minister , because we need a solution . there will be much more unity in Essex on how to move forward if we can work out how to deal with Thurrock ' s debt . it can not be that other local resident , such as my constituent in Chelmsford , be ask to shoulder the blame for something that they do not bring about in the first place . I turn to Essex county council election , which be cancel last May . we have absolutely no idea whether they will go ahead next May ; it would seem a bit strange if they do , but equally we want democracy . can the Government provide some clarity ? finally , why be first past the post be scrap for mayoral election , but not for local government or general election ? that seem rather inconsistent . I can not say that devolution be a topic that come up very often on the doorstep , but the issue that this Bill be design to address — too much power exercise by people far away , too little say in shape the place where we live , and too much confusion over where to go when we have a problem or an issue that need resolve — certainly do . my constituent have raise those issue with I time and again , and devolution and the measure set out in this Bill will tackle those challenge . they will return power to local people , empower community and power growth in area of the country like mine in Norfolk . in Norfolk , devolution mean opportunity . it mean innovation and investment , help create new job in emerge industry such as clean aviation , and bolster our exist strength , include financial service , life science and clean energy . devolution mean connectivity , unlock well and sustainable transport , which be essential in rural county like ours . it mean enhance Norfolk and Norwich ' s reputation and reach , amplify our voice , our contribution and our impact nationally . as such , I welcome the Bill and the fact that Norfolk be part of the devolution priority programme . current proposal will see an elect Mayor for Norfolk and Suffolk alongside the establishment of a combine authority , but we must get the structure below that level right in order to take full advantage of this opportunity . that be why local government reorganisation , and the tool set out in the Bill to deliver it , be so vital . it be a once - in - a - generation chance to provide more efficient public service , to end the overlap of council and to deliver well value for money . I be pleased to back the proposal , support by six out of seven of Norfolk ' s district council , to create three unitary authority . in Norfolk , there would be a Greater Norwich unitary with extended boundary and two unitary authority broadly cover the eastern and western part of Norfolk . I grow up in Norfolk ; we move there when I be three . I know how essential it be that what be deliver be root in place and identity , and I believe this proposal will reflect Norfolk and what be need there . of course , the specific boundary still need to be shape with the support of community engagement , but it be the shape I believe our county need . with it , we can unlock the full potential of Norwich . it be already a key city for the region and our country , with its economy have grow by 64 % since 2010 , but we can do so much more to unlock our full potential as a city of great innovation , culture and prosperity , drive growth across East Anglia and beyond . as the need for affordable and sustainable housing continue to grow — I see that the Housing Minister be on the Front Bench — the establishment of a Greater Norwich unitary authority will also offer a more effective mechanism for address housing demand , which be such a pressure in our city . devolution and effective reorganisation will be a game changer for Norwich and Norfolk , but only if we get it right . I fear that some of the other option on the table will simply not work . the proposal back by the Conservative - control Norfolk county council call for the creation of a single county unitary in Norfolk . I believe that would be just too big ; its footprint would cover thousand of square mile , stretch tie between local councillor and the people they be elect to serve . similarly , a model involve two unitary authority fail to recognise the unique growth opportunity in Norwich , which I have set out . although we may disagree on the model , it be important that there be healthy debate on this subject . I thank all the councillor at all level , who do so much for our community every single day and who have contribute to the discussion so far . as these proposal be develop , it be vital that we work collaboratively across party , listen to our resident to get the very good for our community . on that point , I ask the Minister to underline that this Bill will not affect town and parish council , and indeed will recognise the vital role they play . we have many in Norwich North — Sprowston , Drayton , Old Catton , Hellesdon and Thorpe St Andrew — and they all play important part in our neighbourhood . I have one minute leave — so , as a Labour and Co - operative MP , I take this opportunity to thank the Co - op party and all its member for all the campaigning they have do to deliver so many measure in this Bill , include the community right to buy . I recognise that this process may not be easy , but if we get it right , the benefit will be huge for the constituent we serve and the place we represent . rise — as colleague can see from look around the Chamber , there be far too many speaker to be accommodate by 7 pm , when this debate have to end . as such , after the next speaker , the speak limit will be three minute , and you can calculate the number — not everybody will get in , even on that time limit . I call Bradley Thomas . while the current devolution plan in this Bill put politic before people , the Government be press ahead with the Bill before the independent adult social care review be publish in 2028 . I believe that to reorganise local government without first confront the fundamental crisis in care be to put the cart before the horse . effective reform can not be do in isolation . the Local Government Association have be clear in its view that devolution must be align with health , police , fire and integrate care board structure , with council keep central to delivery , accountability and collaboration at every level . local consent should be a priority throughout the devolution process . any change in governance must be make with the full consent of the people affect , yet this Bill allow the Secretary of State to impose new governance structure , include strategic authority and regional mayor , without local agreement . that strip local people of their voice and run counter to the very principle of devolution . local democracy be already be erode by the unprecedented housing target be force on community , with local objection routinely brush aside . resident feel powerless in shape the future of their town and village , and trust in government be drain away rapidly . this Bill will only deepen that resentment , because Ministers promise devolution , but community will actually receive less say while be treat as little more than an extension of nearby major city . Birmingham , a city with 140 hectare of brownfield land and establish infrastructure , be see its housing target cut by over 30 % . meanwhile , in my constituency , where 89 % of the land be green belt , target have soar by a staggering 85 % . that be not sensible planning ; it be an attempt to urbanise rural area against the will of local resident . in her opening remark , the Deputy Prime Minister say that at the minute , too much power be in the hand of the few when it should be in the hand of the many . the Government should therefore let local people have more of a say in what the housing target should be . if our current council in Worcestershire be to be sideline , it should be for a singular Worcestershire council to come into existence that can deliver value for money to the taxpayer , provide the good possible service and keep decision make local . we can not accept Worcestershire involuntarily become an extension of Birmingham in the name of devolution . the Bill ' s proposal be model on city experience . Worcestershire be not the same as Birmingham , Manchester or any other big city . we have different need , different challenge and different priority . force a city template on to rural area sideline community , strip away their voice and sacrifice the fabric of rural life . once again , rural and semi - rural resident be treat as an afterthought . county shape by their rural character , such as Worcestershire , be rightly proud of their identity and tradition . if this Bill be to touch our community , it must first recognise their distinct need and be rethought to respect they . I refer member to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the fight to rebuild trust in politic must begin in our community . in Leigh and Atherton , people want to feel proud of the place that they call home . they want visible investment and the power to shape their future , and that be why I welcome the second reading of this Bill . this ambitious Bill be an important step in our devolution revolution , represent one of the great transfer of power from Westminster in a generation . it be the first UK Bill in history to include the word " empowerment " in its title . for too long , devolution have mean power be shift between Whitehall , mayor and council without make meaningful contact with local people . this Bill offer a meaningful step forward , give our community the tool to take ownership of the space that matter most . as a Labour and Co - operative MP , I welcome the introduction of the community right to buy . in practice , this mean that when asset of community value come to the market , community get first dibs . where we have lose such local asset , it have mean not just a loss of service to the community , but a further erosion of trust in local democracy . I be therefore in no doubt that give community a strong voice in local decision making help to restore trust in politic from the bottom up . in my constituency of Leigh and Atherton , Leigh Spinners Mill and Leigh Works stand as shine example of what happen when local people take the rein . once derelict but now community - own , they have become an anchor for regeneration . the mill and Leigh Works support job , culture and wellbeing . across the country , people have see beloved community space force to close their door . thousand of community centre , youth club , library , pub and leisure centre have close over the past decade . with this Bill , Labour be rebuild the fabric of our community . give local people the power to buy community space mean more asset own and shape by the people who use and love they . we be help community to unleash the energy , passion and creativity that exist in every community . many member have point to Greater Manchester as a blueprint , and it do show what be possible when devolution be do right . since 2015 , we have build 85 , 000 home , launch the Bee Network and help more than 100 , 000 resident into work . I have be a strong advocate for devolution for many year . my work as a local councillor at Wigan council and then at Spinners Mill reinforce my belief in give power to local authority and the community that they represent . we must seize this opportunity to put power back where it belong , and to build a future where Leigh and Atherton and community across the country feel empower and proud of the place that they call home . we have all be tell repeatedly that the Government ' s plan for local government will improve local service and save the taxpayer money , but it be increasingly clear that the Bill fail to deliver on those point . this be a forced , top - down change from Westminster that will abolish effective local council and strip local people of their ability to have a say on local issue . in my constituency I have two district council , East Herts and Broxbourne , as well as Hertfordshire county council . under this " devolution " plan , they will be abolish and replace by new unitary council . I strongly oppose Hertfordshire county council form a single new unitary council cover 1 . 2 million people , and I be pleased to learn that that have be rule out , but the new unitary council will still be far large than the district council that we currently have . I be sure that many other member on both side of the House will share my experience that large local authority be often less efficient and deliver bad service than small , more agile one . the big council in the country be Birmingham , with a population of more than 1 million , and I doubt that anyone here would call it efficient . while no council be perfect , I believe that council work well when they be close to the people they serve . on top of that , I have serious doubt that these plan will actually save any money . there be no way in which efficiency will cover the extra cost of spending by these bloated new unitary authority . the process of reorganisation be expensive and disruptive , and I have yet to see it notably improve the finance of council that have go through it . indeed , many area will be bad off as a result of it . responsible conservative council such as Broxbourne which have consistently keep within budget and keep council tax low will be force to merge with debt - ride neighbouring council and raise their council tax level . I know that where unitarisation have happen , council have go on to set up delivery of service base on the old district boundary anyway . the efficiency expect by the Government have not emerge . I believe that the Government be go down this path of create big new super - unitary council , because of their failure to make progress on their target of building 1 . 5 million new home . the Government be get desperate . rather than build house where they be need in London , and rather than build house where there be appropriate infrastructure or make developer deal with infrastructure first , they be abolish local council in order to force through huge arbitrary housing target in all the wrong place — on precious green belt throughout the United Kingdom . deliver a more representative system locally , as well as one that empower local government , be necessary now , give the palpable long - term frustration with decision making that be perceive by community to be exclusively dictate by those confine to Planet Westminster or — especially in Falkirk — Planet Holyrood . we know from experience that devolution work well when it be root in economic regeneration , with a real impact on ordinary people ' s life . I agree with the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) , who be no long in the Chamber , when he say that Scotland be a cautionary tale . the cautionary tale for local government from 19 year of SNP government be about what happen when we do nothing , which be what the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats will vote for tonight . local leader can more effectively deploy policy lever in the collective national interest . for instance , the transport procurement policy of Manchester and Liverpool ' s mayor have deliver hundred of order from Falkirk ' s bus manufacturer . that be essential , especially while our own devolve Scottish Government have their eye off the ball and on shiny new chinese bus . when local leader with popular mandate have be able to take charge of industrial strategy and regeneration , we see confidence return to community that for decade have feel leave behind . reflect on the centralise tendency of my absent SNP colleague , I observe that they have persistently ignore , constrain and harm local authority in Scotland . I be still wait for the council tax abolition that I hear about in primary 3 . if we be ask our constituent to invest trust in their local leader , and to engage in local decision make with the hope that it can change something , we must also take a microscope to the health of our democratic structure nationally . turnout have be go down , and we know why : we keep hear from folk on the doorstep that they do not think their vote change anything . with the removal of first past the post for mayoral and police and crime commissioner election , be it not time that we give local government the option of drop first past the post , as Wales have do ? be it not also time for a national commission on electoral reform ? that be the point I be just about to get to . in 2022 , I be elect as a local authority councillor in third place under the multi - member system , and it do work . many people would not have go to a different political party , or would not necessarily have come to speak to the labour representative , but it help that they have diverse representation . I do think it be worth look at that system , as I be about to touch on as a member of the all - party parliamentary group for fair election . that be why the provision in the Bill concern voting system be welcome and why , to echo my hon . friend , we should consider a national commission on electoral reform — a commitment to foster a national conversation about how we should be elect in modern Britain , and to build consensus and a way forward . different voting system be already use across the country — for example , for the devolved legislature in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , for our council and for mayoral election here in England . Disillusionment do not start yesterday , and any change to a voting system will not solve the degree of disengagement that we have see in community , but it could allow people to see their view always reflect in the institution that represent they , as we see with Falkirk council under the multi - member ward system . continue to rely on a voting system nationally , when nearly two third of people want change , risk crystallise the disillusionment . by formalise and extend devolution , the Government be today move to strengthen trust at a local level . by engage in a serious exercise about how we be send to this place , we can go a long way towards renew it at a national level too . it be a pleasure to speak on this important piece of legislation , and I declare my interest as a vice president of the Local Government Association . this Bill ' s intention be to support further devolution — something that the liberal Democrats be in favour of . however , the Bill fail to properly do so , and instead only reinforce the overly centralised approach take by the last government . alongside contiguous neighbour , Somerset be ready to move forward with further devolution over six month ago , when it be part of the joint " heart of Wessex " bid . disappointingly , the Government choose not to include it in the devolution priority programme , despite the proposal match the growth and economic objective set out in the Government ' s White Paper and encompass nearly 2 million people . the deal would have provide great power for community struggle under national policy and give rural community confidence that their voice be be hear . this Bill fail to adequately deal with the ongoing and ever increase financial crisis face by council across the country . despite the challenge , Liberal Democrats in Somerset have be get on with the job of fix council finance follow the wild mismanagement of the previous conservative administration . just yesterday the council publish a new 20 - year economic prosperity strategy , which aim to build a thriving , fair and green Somerset economy . it be lead the way on low - carbon energy , aerospace and defence . the Bill make no reference to the unique nature of rural community . for example , Somerset ' s population be both old and age fast than the national average , which will increase the amount of care need in the county . as chair of the APPG on rural service , it would be remiss of I not to acknowledge the additional financial challenge that rural authority such as Somerset face . over half of Somerset ' s budget go towards adult ' and child ' s care . there be a shortage of social care provider , which will be impact by the rise in employer national insurance contribution , and as with so many local authority , the pressure on the delivery of SEND provision be only increase . the Bill do nothing to stabilise the financial footing of rural council ; in fact , it fail to even mention rural community . we must also acknowledge that rural community be often at the forefront of environmental issue , such as flooding . last month , riparian ratepayer in Somerset be inform that the Environment Agency will cease main river maintenance work within the next six month . I be deeply concerned that this will put Somerset at increase and unacceptable risk of flooding and environmental harm . how do the Government intend to implement all of this through devolution , give that the exist authority be responsible for reinforcement , enforcement and regulation ? I welcome the Bill and commend the Deputy Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , for her leadership in bring it forward . for too long , decision about our community have be make far from the people they affect . this Bill signal a profound shift , put trust back into local leader , strengthen council and ensure that community have a real say in shape their future . it provide the foundation for a new settlement for England that value local knowledge and unlock local energy . the return of the supplementary vote system for mayoral election — a key feature of this important Bill — be welcome , and I associate myself with the view of my hon . friend the Member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) on the wide issue of proportional representation . the Bill place particular emphasis on neighbourhood work by recognise the importance of neighbourhood and the grassroots organisation that sustain they . equally important be the measure to strengthen community right to buy , which empower resident to take ownership of the place that matter to they most , ensure they can be preserve and improve for future generation . I pay tribute to the Deputy Prime Minister for her clarity in purpose in drive these change . she understand that local government be not an obstacle to progress , but the engine of it . although the Bill be about empowerment , we must ensure that it do not undermine the principle of local choice , however inadvertently . since the announcement of the Bill , I have have ten of email and more than 100 letter on this subject . in May 2021 , the people of Sheffield go to the poll in a city - wide referendum . they vote decisively — by 65 % — to move to a modern committee system of government , replace the old leader and cabinet model . that be a clear democratic decision . it be also guarantee in law for at least 10 year , with the principle that any further change could be make only by referendum . the provision currently in the Bill would overturn that choice , force Sheffield back into a governance model that its citizen have explicitly reject . that can not be right . it would break faith with local voter , undermine the spirit of empowerment that run through the Bill and send the wrong message about how seriously we take democratic decision . if this legislation be to achieve its full potential , council that have already choose to have a committee system via referendum should be allow to retain that system , just as with mayoral model . I know that local leader agree with I on this , and I appreciate that minister have be meet local leader . this be a bold bill ; it be one that we should be proud of and that I be proud to support . it rightly enshrine the central role of council in shape and deliver devolution . I just hope that we do not throw the baby out with the bathwater on the issue of allow local council to maintain their choose model . the Government talk about devolution , but that be not what be go on with the Bill , or with local government reform . power be not be hand down by central Government , but be suck up from district council to unitarie and from council to mayoralty , govern enormous and very diverse territory from distant town and city . in West Suffolk , we face a Suffolk and Norfolk mayoralty — probably run from Norwich — and a new unitary council structure , with either one council run from Ipswich or three different council . give our place on the map , Cambridge be more important to we than Norwich or Ipswich , yet there be little in these proposal to help we to exploit the economic opportunity present by well transport connection and business opportunity come out of one of the most dynamic city in the country . of course , question about the tax burden and distribution of revenue be fundamental . give the state of the public finance , any saving make through local government reform might be snaffle by the Treasury . service provide by district council might be cut to subsidise service fund by the county council , such as adult social care . council debt across Suffolk stand at £ 1 . 1 billion , but there be huge variation between the council ; in Ipswich , debt per person be nearly £ 1 , 800 , while in West Suffolk , it be less than £ 50 . there be a similar story with tax . Ipswich charge the high council tax of any shire district in the country . to equalise tax across a single Suffolk unitary council would mean massive tax rise for people live in West Suffolk , tax cut for people in Ipswich , which would retain service unavailable to my constituent , or a bad - of - both - world combination . Suffolk ' s council have their different proposal , but ultimately it will be whitehall that decide . I be press Ministers and those advocate a particular model for we locally for the clear answer that we in West Suffolk need and deserve . first , will all the money save stay in Suffolk ? secondly , will people in West Suffolk pay more in council tax as a result of this change ? will we end up funding service for Ipswich that we do not get ? thirdly , will town and parish council be give a great say in the planning process ? fourthly , will town and parish council have great power over thing such as road safety and speed limit ? fifthly , will we get an absolute guarantee that there will be no merger between Suffolk and Norfolk police force ? this whole process be too rush and completely unsatisfactory . it be wrong to postpone our local election this year . the propose reform have not be think through and the consequence be not clear . there may be some upside to reform and there may even be some upside in principle to unitary council , but unless we get convincing answer , I will oppose not just this Bill , but the change to local government in Suffolk . this devolution debate today be a continuation of the conversation that have be do the round in Sussex since the announcement that we will be in the first wave of new region to begin the devolution process . the Bill will allow we to unlock resource at a regional level and to use they to well serve the need of our community . it provide the framework for cohesive , strategic planning across Sussex for the housing and service that we need , generate good employment and the freedom to travel easily . do right , it be an opportunity for great democratic engagement and participation . let I turn to a couple of the issue that have be do the round in this conversation in Sussex . the first be planning and transport . business in worthe West and across Sussex be currently gridlocke by fail east - to - west travel route and by public transport that be too often unaffordable , unreliable or absent outside of our town centre . a regional transport authority with legal responsibility for bus , train and active travel will be able to leverage investment and design service that actually meet the need of our community . we want travel planning that connect people and business , enable eco - tourism to flourish in our beautiful South Downs and let resident move across Sussex without rely on a crumble 20th - century system that be build around car and that no long serve we . on housing and infrastructure , with this Bill we can align housing , planning and infrastructure finally to deliver the right home in the right place across the region . in my constituency , almost one in four resident be now aged 65 or above , yet much of our housing stock be not fit for old age . the shortage of suitable home limit our ability to attract working - age people to the area . along with so many other area , we face a dire lack of rented and affordable social housing . only at a regional level can we plan housing that meet our need now and into the future : home that be accessible for our old population , affordable for young family , and support by infrastructure to create thriving , mixed community , networked and easily accessible across Sussex . finally , I will focus on the new duty on health inequality . I welcome the Bill ' s introduction of this duty , which be crucial for the rural and coastal community in my constituency and across Sussex . the chief medical officer ' s 2021 report be clear : coastal area suffer a persistent " coastal excess " of ill health even after account for age and deprivation . rural area also face hide deprivation that regional average fail to capture : limited service , high fuel poverty , isolation and inadequate access to care . these be life cut short and opportunity deny . the Bill will compel leader in Sussex to consider health in every policy — transport , housing and skill — embed public health in all decision , and that be something that we can learn from at a national level too . the Bill brand itself as " devolution by default " , but in practice it could be see as centralisation by stealth . real devolution shift power out of Westminster and Whitehall to the people in local community , but the Bill risk do the opposite . for instance , clause 4 let minister draw and redraw local map in order for area to have a mayor . clause 50 let they bolt on new function by regulation with minimal scrutiny , and clause 9 create seven unelected commissioner answerable only to a mayor . it also fail to explain how it will all be pay for . let we be clear , local government be in serious financial difficulty . East Sussex county council be on course to exhaust its reserve by 2029 . council across East Sussex carry £ 500 million - worth of debt . our inboxe be full of case that should be handle by council that no long have the staff or the funding . reshuffling deck chair on a sink ship will not save it . without a sustainable settlement for social care and child ' s service , structural change will fail . some power be welcome , if they be fund . bus franchising can reconnect town and village but not on an empty budget . require key route network and local growth plan add duty but at the moment without give resource . a new local audit office could help clear the audit backlog , but it can not be both regulator and auditor — no one should mark their own homework . I be particularly alarmed to read clause 55 ; this issue have affect my community particularly heavily . the clause enable force merger into new unitary council . in my area , Brighton and Hove city council have launch a surprise consultation to push its boundary east to absorb Newhaven , Kingston and nearby village in my constituency . newhaven be a distinct port town 10 mile from Brighton . Kingston , Iford , Rodmell and Southease be rural community in the South Downs national park . I have already write to a Minister on this subject . they be not Brighton neighbourhood , and resident do not want decision make for they at Hove town hall . the Government say that they want pace . the East Sussex proposal , support by the county council and all five district and borough , keep the county boundary intact and let East Sussex move forward together . Brighton ' s farcical counter - proposal risk delay and confusion , not least by propose to cut across the boundary of two county division and a parliamentary constituency . its consultation do not even consider a westward expansion where the urban area of Brighton and Hove naturally continue ; it go straight into cut up East Sussex . here be the test for the Bill overall : do it move power and resource to people and place , or do it pull more string into the Secretary of State ' s hand ? do it strengthen scrutiny or sidestep it ? do it fix the finance or dodge they ? at the moment , it fall short on all these count . I hope the Minister can explain the answer to those challenge . devolution should feel like power in people ' s hand , not something be do to they . our politic be not work . too many people feel that what we do here have little relevance to their life . they feel that their vote be less a source of power and a decision about our common future , and more an expression — the only way they have to demonstrate how bad the status quo have become . often my constituent ask I , " who be in charge of this ? who do I hold responsible for fix it ? " , and so often it be shockingly hard to know or even find out . our state and our political system have become so confused and centralised , with so many compete boundary of responsibility , that power slip through the crack and evade the grasp of elect politician . to fix that , we must go back to first principle . this Bill be motivate by a fundamental principle : that in our democracy sovereignty flow up from the people to Parliament , not down from Parliament to the people . the people be sovereign , so the way we govern ourselves — our constitution — be not the unique property of member in this Chamber . it be something that all of we own as citizen ; we be represent as well as representative . that matter , because it change how we should think about the Bill . the control that the Bill aim to give people be not new , and it be not something that this place have the unique authority to give or withhold . the Bill aim to restore a kind of local control that have for too long be gradually erode , and its motivating principle be that , through voting , people should be able to change our political system . the right - to - request power enshrine this principle in law , enable strategic authority to be ambitious in request the power that the people who live in those area need to thrive . I know that Andy Burnham , mayor of the town I represent in Wigan , will be ambitious in use that power for technical education , tourist taxis and employment support . as the Bill develop , I hope that consideration will be give to the responsibility to treat the request with the seriousness that they deserve . Greater Manchester be a shine example of how this work , and it be the fast - grow local economy in the UK , at double the UK rate . in taxi licensing , we also have an example of how power can drain from elect official , as local people can not hold to account the authority and police force responsible for their safety . the Bill be part of a broad agenda that I strongly support : restore power to people choose by the public , instead of independent agency , expert or body of right and treaty . to my mind , when our politic be not work , we politician have a responsibility to think boldly about how to make it work well . what we need be nothing less than a moment of constitutional change and fresh and creative thinking about how to reform our system . that be what I hope the Bill begin to do . bring decision make close to local people and make it more accountable and more reflective of local need be a laudable aim , but that be not what the Bill will do . rather than bring decision make close to hard - work local people , it will cement the damaging present system of oversized unitary authority and dubiously useful mayoralty . if we want our community to have responsive local government with easily accessible political leader who deliver on the desire of resident and be accountable at the ballot box , we should not be push for large local government boundary . if anything , we should be reduce their size . in Scotland , we have so - call devolution , but the reality on the ground be that the Scottish Government be centralise more and more power . do my hon . friend share my concern that the Bill create the potential risk of that ? I absolutely share that concern , and I will give my hon . friend an example of what we face across the Bradford district ; the people across Keighley and Ilkley have long know the danger to small community when such amalgamation occur . in 1974 , their well like and well remember council be abolish and absorb into a large Bradford council unitary authority , which be one of the large in the country with a population of 565 , 000 ; the average size of a unitary authority be about 250 , 000 people . since then , Bradford council have consistently prioritise its namesake , extract ever high council tax and cost from outlying area such as my constituency and neighbouring Shipley and funnel they into city centre project of no benefit to the people who have pay for they . my friend be make some excellent point . the good example , which be from when this start , be the creation of Greater London in 1965 . ever since then , area like Romford have be pay money into central London and lose our local control , local identity and local democracy , and it have be cost we an absolute fortune . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill be a lot of red tape and bureaucracy and the wrong direction to go in ? I absolutely agree . the Bill be not about local democracy ; it be about take the power for decision make away from local people on where their council tax should be spend . that be why I be advocate that the Government should stop the Bill from progress . Bradford council be make up of 90 councillor , with Bradford have a great number of councillor on the council than Keighley and Ilkley combine . that may be reflective of their rural population , but it be completely airbrush out the distinctly different need , desire and priority of area such as mine . that be why I will advocate continuously for we in Keighley , Ilkley , Silsden and the Worth valley — and indeed the Shipley constituency — to have our own unitary authority outside that of Bradford . mayoralty have be arguably a great challenge . when a constituent have an issue , Madam Deputy Speaker , you and other Members of the House know that they should not have any difficulty in contact their parliamentarian as our constituency office be on the high street and our email be always open . we have personal and deep connection to the local community we represent and be familiar with the business and the people that make up those community . but mayoralty operate over region with hundred of thousand — if not million — of resident within they . if a constituent try to contact their mayor , it be highly likely that the correspondence will never cross the mayor ' s desk . mayoral region be simply too large for one person to seriously represent the community level . aggregate decision making at the strategic authority level make exactly the same mistake . if a community want to make an objection , it will have to do so no long to its local council but to a strategic authority : a body not tie by history , sentiment or even geographical area to those community , but instead under direction send by the Government . if we be serious about devolution , we would follow the lesson experience by Keighley and Ilkley and make local government work at a community level . we would empower not administrative monstrosity but parish , town and small , more regional council . that be why I will continue to advocate for my area to be take out of the Bradford unitary authority and to create our own unitary authority . I advocate reverse the local government amalgamation make in the 1970 , not double down on they . the Bill be a wolf in sheep ' s clothing and should not be support . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I have always be , and I remain , a vocal advocate for devolution and reorganisation . I get to witness the type of joy and hope I want every community to feel when I work in Greater Manchester during the establishment of the first devolve mayoralty . I have have robust debate with council and resident of all political persuasion on how local government reorganisation should good work in Lancashire , particularly when a sense of place and home be so important to most of we . the prospect of what we know to be our place change somehow can be unsettling , but if we be bring along and engage throughout , we can usually start to see the opportunity too . I will focus my comment on the most local level of our democratic structure : the role of town and parish council , which I believe should be use to even great effect if we let it . my constituency of Ribble Valley be significantly parishe in its rural area , with parish such as Broughton and Balderstone , while more suburban area such as Lostock Hall be not but have active community group such as the Lostock Hall Village Team . I therefore see the strength of both formal and informal community leadership . in clause 58 , the Bill rightly create a clear requirement for local authority to create neighbourhood governance structure . in a statement to this House in June , it be suggest that those could be call neighbourhood area committee , lead by ward councillor . however , I be concerned that the Bill do not fully appreciate the role that town and parish council currently play and that the accountability of such neighbourhood area committee do not seem to be enshrine . I will cover a couple of my concern . first , if the committee be lead by ward councillor , such councillor be political in their nature whereas parish councillor be usually apolitical . we therefore need to consider the ramification of change the focus of those local committee . secondly , how do we ensure that every area be advocate for by a committed representative ? how do we tangibly protect area whose ward councillor be not active or who do not create a neighbourhood governance structure ? do that remove the ability for involved resident to form group outside that ? we all know of councillor — rare as they be , I hope — who stand for political reason or otherwise and then do not drive thing locally . even though parish and town council only cover 36 % of the population in England , they cover some 90 % of its geographical area . some may feel that such a distinction mean that parish council be not so influential and significant in our country ' s governance , but that view do a disservice to the land that we live in and on and be sustain by . as politician , and as resident in a democracy , we be responsible for the land around we and its resource . indeed , some of the big role for parish and town council be around planning , the environment , flood and ensure that local area — the building , the field , the road and not just the people — be manage well . although to some this section of the Bill may feel small and fairly niche , if we do not pay attention to the conversation happen in the pub or the community centre and to the people there who understand their local area well than anyone , we will struggle to understand what people want and need . let I be clear : this Bill be monumental . but let we build on our fantastic exist structure , especially those town and parish council that cover 90 % of our great country , as have always be — order . I call Si â n Berry . there be idea in this Bill that devolve power that we Greens can support . a layer of strategic government with funding and fundraising power could empower area of the country , such as Sussex , to improve daily life for our citizen and could strengthen democracy . however , it be worry that the process for do that so far and the way in which decision be move forward on the reorganisation of local government have not listen to people who want to maintain their district and borough council and have not properly engage local people in devise new proposal rather than just comment on they . if this be do without consent or respect for local area , it will not be democratic or empower . clause 57 be very unfair in grandfathere in exist mayoral arrangement for local council but not preserve any committee system — not even those choose recently by referendum . on fair voting , the Bill be inadequate . for the new elect mayor , the Bill specify a supplementary voting system that be well than first - past - the - post , but , as other member have point out , that should be use next year in Sussex . also , for the new authority where new councillor be be elect , there be a genuine miss chance to have a fairer voting system for council too . the Bill be dangerously light on the democratic scrutiny of new mayor and combined authority , and poor on standard in public life . there should be transparency duty on mayor to disclose their lobbying meeting , as minister do and all mps should . mayor will also be able to appoint commissioner for different area of their power , which will be powerful position that be likely to be well remunerate . yet the Bill appear to be silent on any high standard of accountability , transparency or conduct for such people . mayor and commissioner should all come under the Advisory Committee on Business Appointments , as other people in this place do . there be big miss chance in the Bill in term of new duty for poverty and inequality , climate , nature , healthy air , land and water pollution and health , particularly in relation to the impact of transport and housing policy . on health determinant , the Bill mention prosperity but not poverty or inequality ; nor do it mention the huge chance to improve health by clean up filthy air pollution . why not ? Greens will be argue for all these goal and duty and more to be put in place firmly and clearly in the Bill , and for they to be match with power , funding and the ability to raise and use investment for home , transport , education , justice , social justice , public health and all these other thing to close the gap that have so shamefully grow under successive government and continue labour austerity . this Bill could help to deliver great thing , but it will take many big change , much work and much listen to good idea from this part of the House for the Government to achieve that . I also welcome the shadow Secretary of State to his new role . the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill present a great opportunity for Southend East and Rochford and for Greater Essex . the Bill be about give local people the right to make decision about the place they call home . at its heart , it be about empower our community . community do not just happen . when I be grow up , we have youth club , football team and thrive heritage building . we have a strong sense of community . over the past 14 year , many of these institution have be force to close . devolution have already bring so many opportunity to area that have see more devolved power . family in Southend East and Rochford and in Essex deserve that same level of opportunity . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make a bit of progress . widen devolution be a chance to finally reverse this trend . it introduce a new community right to buy , give community group a formal right of first refusal to purchase asset of community value , and it extend the time period to 12 month for community to raise fund and negotiate a purchase price for say asset . it protect grassroots sporting facility as asset of community value , which they be . it end upward - only rent review clause in commercial lease . this will allow rent to increase and decrease at the rent review , base on the current market rate . this will prevent vacant shop and help to regenerate high street . finally , it provide measure for accountability to ensure that mayor from all party deliver the house , transport and infrastructure that community need . the Essex economy have be hold back by power store in Westminster . if Greater Essex have the same level of productivity as the south - east , our local economy would be 17 % big . it be time to unlock this economic potential and for Greater Essex to carve out its own industrial strategy and finally become the economic powerhouse I know it can be . devolution should mean give power back to people and community . decision ought to be take as close as possible to those they affect , but this Bill impose a top - down model from Whitehall with sweeping new power for the Secretary of State , mayor and their unelected commissioner , rather than the real empowerment of council and resident . my own constituency of Stratford - on - Avon be a good example of why this matter . in rural south Warwickshire , our need be very different from the urban north . we face unique challenge such as unreliable public transport , which leave local resident with poor access to key service . our fire and rescue service have be reduce . that be why I support the two - unitary council solution for Warwickshire , reflect the reality of our place and respect the local identity . far , we must not overlook the vital role that parish and town council play in community such as mine across Stratford - on - Avon . from create neighbourhood development plan to support local group and look after our village green and recreation ground , they do outstanding work , and with the right backing , many stand ready to deliver more for their community . council be already stretch to breaking point , with deficit run into the billion . for those authority already in the deep difficulty , devolution without proper funding be little more than rearrange the deck chair on the titanic . unless Ministers face up to the scale of the challenge and provide sustainable resource , no new governance structure will succeed . although bring back the supplementary vote be a move in the right direction , the Government have miss a real opportunity to restore trust in politic through fairer election . if the Government recognise that first past the post be not fit for mayoral election , why be it fit for parliamentary and council election ? I welcome the strengthening of the community right to buy scheme , which will help safeguard value local asset , particularly in rural area , where protect much - love asset and community hub , such as our pub , be so important . the Government must go far on this , especially when asset be keep empty and derelict by landlord . in conclusion , the Bill could have be the moment to show that national Government be willing to put power in the hand of community . instead , by centralise rather than devolving , the Government have let the moment pass . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be in my 18th year as a member of Thetford town council and I serve as a director on the Charles Burrell Centre committee , a community benefit society in my hometown . I have serve on the town council , the district council and the county council — all three tier of local government — so member will understand why I have a keen interest in the Bill , but it be my background in community that lead I to get involve in politic in the first place . the clause in the Bill specifically around community empowerment be exciting and long overdue . in my constituency of South West Norfolk , where I be bear and raise , I have see the impact of community power at first hand . when my former school , Charles Burrell high school , close in 2013 , we be devastate . it be partly the emotion that come from lose a school of more than 60 year , but it be also that the physical building have be home to so many community group and other organisation . for many , it be so much more than just a school . as a community , we set about work to save the building . at some 85 , 000 square foot of former secondary school with 12 acre of land , it be no easy undertaking . few think it would work , but on Saturday just go , myself and hundred of local resident celebrate the Charles Burrell Centre ' s 10th birthday . over those 10 year , we have witness local people take responsibility for the site , turn it into a thriving community hub of more than 60 organisation , charity , statutory body and small business . it now create job , support family and act as a vital anchor for the community , with an annual turnover of half a million pound . none of that would have be possible without trust in local people . on strategic authority , I wonder if the Minister could speak to my concern about opportunity for rural community . strategic authority draw on metropolitan , large urban area , but I have three market town and 72 village in my constituency . although individually their economic potential would be small by comparison , collectively our rural community have so much potential and could significantly support the Government ' s growth agenda , but they need support . how those rural community link up and obtain that support as part of devolution , and how they work with the strategic authority , be key . I hope the Minister can highlight how rural area will fit in . I want Narborough in my constituency to have as much focus as Norwich . I want Ickburgh to be on the page when we be talk about Ipswich . I particularly welcome community right to buy , give local people the strong say they need on community issue . sadly , for too many community project , get good idea off the drawing board be still far too difficult , and I hope these priority and other can support project like the Charles Burrell Centre , which be now under the excellent management of Nicola Welham , support by a fantastic staff and volunteer team in Thetford . this Bill have miss the opportunity to introduce a fair voting system . the outdated first - past - the - post system distort the will of the people while ignore million of voice across the country . it be no wonder that so many people feel disconnected from politic . this Bill could have be an opportunity to restore the disconnect , but it fail . devolution must go hand in hand with reform that ensure that every vote count and every community have a voice . the Bill will not result in that ambitious shift of power from Westminster and Whitehall to community and individual . sadly , it be a miss opportunity for reform . will the Minister ask the Deputy Prime Minister to commit to consider pr more carefully ? you never know , Madam Deputy Speaker , it might help the Labour party to hold on to a few more seat at the next general election . I can not understand how anyone could speak against the Bill . it present a real opportunity to do something different in our local community . Northampton have be under a unitary system for five year now , after the Conservatives bankrupt our county council , and no one there have ever say to I , " I wish we have more council and councillor . " People want simplicity , and that be what the Bill deliver . the Bill also deliver accountability . my hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) talk about the personal accountability of councillor . in my area , the former conservative leader have to stand down because of domestic abuse charge , and a former conservative cabinet member be in court on abuse charge alongside man who be charge with abuse child , so I would say that more accountability for our local councillor and politician be very important . the Bill drive growth . I speak to investor who want to come to the Oxford - Cambridge growth corridor . they have hear the Chancellor talk about the opportunity in our region and think , " there be no single voice that I can speak to , but I can go to West Yorkshire , South Yorkshire or anywhere else around the country with a big mayoral authority and find someone who be championing growth . " not in Greater London . they may well come to London . meanwhile , in the Ox - Cam corridor and the south midland region , we be struggle for a single voice that be speak out for our area . that be what devolution will deliver for we . devolution also save cost . I be sure that all member have read the detailed analysis in the Library briefing , but PwC also estimate that it will save between £ 500 million and £ 700 million a year for taxpayer . it would be absolutely banana to vote against something that would reduce people ' s tax bill . there be some great local benefit for Northampton . I will not talk about devolution , because the Minister know my strong view on the issue that I face . one that I will not let slip through here be e - scooter licensing . we have have a long - run e - scooter trial in Northampton . every single month , people complain to I about scooter - litter . it be important that local authority be able to well control those licensing agreement and hold the scooter company to account for ensure that scooter be in the right place . we in London also face a proliferation of e - scooter and e - bike . the last Conservative Government absolutely fail to take any action on that . do my hon . friend agree that it will make a huge difference to Londoners that Transport for London will now have the power to hold those company to account and clear the pavement ? I could not agree more . I can not imagine how anyone can deal with the myriad company work across London . have just one in Northampton be challenge enough — although it be a good company . local ownership be central to the Bill , and community right to buy will be fantastic . People have talk about pub , but a number of different community organisation that have come to see I in the past year — the Nigerian Community Association , the Albanian Cultural Association and our local ukrainian school — be look to take derelict local property and turn they into great community hub . the Bill would give they more power to take on those community asset and create great place in Northampton . the Bill protect small business . for retail business on Wellingborough Road , Kettering Road in the town centre or one of the shopping parade , the removal of upward - only rent review will mean that shop owner have more security and protection under this Government . overall , I be very excited about move power out of Whitehall and into local community . honestly , have listen to the debate for a good three hour , I can not understand how anyone could possibly vote against the measure . it might surprise the hon . member for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) , but in my constituency people want good local councillor — particularly the liberal Democrat one , who be work hard . we Liberal Democrats passionately believe that power belong in local community , not concentrate in Whitehall . although we welcome the drive for further devolution , the Bill sideline local council by hand yet more authority to regional mayor . Bath council know all too well the frustration of have a regional mayor who do not listen to all the local authority they represent . for year , Bath council want to bring bus under local control , but we be stick with a Labour mayor who refuse to listen and spend million on a birthday bus vanity project , rather than deliver the change my constituent be cry out for . the Bill will enable mayor of strategic authority to nominate up to seven unelected commissioner to deliver policy , accountable only to the mayor . these unelected official add a layer of unaccountable bureaucracy that community do not want and council do not need . real devolution mean local community at the heart of decision making , work collaboratively with the mayor . clause 21 and 22 do not even clarify on which " relevant local matter " mayor must convene with local partner — surely that can not be right . also absent from the Bill be visitor levy power for local authority . Bath council have long be advocate for the ability to introduce a modest visitor levy . we in Bath be proud of the role we play in support the visitor economy , but the system need to be fair , recognise the cost as well as the benefit of such high level of tourism . the Government should give local authority these power through the Bill , to safeguard our hugely important and valuable tourism industry . also miss from the Bill be the introduction of public account committee to oversee and hold mayoral strategic authority accountable , much like the Public Accounts Committee do with Government expenditure . robust local scrutiny would reduce the dependence on upward accountability to central Government and represent real progress in the exist local council and mayoral scrutiny arrangement . if the Government do support the principle of local public account committee , the Bill should provide a timescale for their implementation . we Liberal Democrats support the aim of the Bill , but it clearly fall short of real devolution . what we have be a Bill that misunderstand the whole point of devolution — namely , decision making from the bottom up , not the top down . I really welcome this pivotal Bill . when I be deputy leader of Southampton city council , I see at first hand how local decision make by local people be transformative for the community , but I also see over 14 long year of conservative government how we be hold back by a broken system that turn council into supplicant , in constant competition with our neighbour , force to put our begging bowl out for crumb from whitehall ' s table . that end with this Bill , and I really welcome the change that it represent and the measure it contain . I also welcome the fact that Southampton , along with other council in Hampshire and the Isle of Wight , be part of the devolution priority programme , allow we to take advantage of these power from next May . the political benefit be clear , and the promise in our manifesto be be deliver , but the process matter , so we have to get this right . what I be interested in be how these power improve the life chance of my constituent . my message to all council leader , include in Southampton , be that we must be clear about what we want to do with these power . I note that the conservative police and crime commissioner , who be now run to be Mayor of Hampshire , have say that her big priority be close hotel for asylum seeker and stop house be build to avoid upset Tory district council . that be certainly a vision , but it be disappointingly narrow than what this moment require . for I , there be three basic test that regional devolution must meet to make this worth it : first , it improve employment and skill prospect , particularly for those most marginalise from the labour market ; secondly , it progress investment in and integration of our transport network , specifically low - pollute public transport that be well connected and affordable ; and thirdly , it galvanise house building , so that work people can afford to live and work locally — that be especially vital in the south , where housing demand be acute and nimby Tory and Lib Dem - lead council be fail to deliver for local people . as an aside , I also welcome the return to the more representative supplementary vote system . I appreciate that local government reorganisation be a separate process , but in Hampshire our local leader be be ask to endorse new council area alongside a mayoral authority . I support the proposal back by 12 out of the 15 council in Hampshire — run by all party — to establish five unitary authority across the area and have sign a joint letter to support that . I urge Ministers to not simply take the easy option and stitch together pre - exist organisation . as someone who also represent a constituency in Hampshire , I agree with my hon . friend . in term of the letter we have send , would it not make more sense for boundary change to be part of the process , as oppose to an add - on at the end ? I thank my hon . friend and near neighbour for make that point . absolutely , boundary change must be look at sympathetically by Ministers . I hope to get that reassurance in their comment , because what we stand to gain in the short term from a quick and easy decision , we will lose in the long term if council find themselves saddle with nonsensical boundary . I have two other quick request , the first of which be on mayoral council . give mayoral council a statutory footing would provide a powerful forum for central Government to meet devolved government and iron out policy issue . secondly , will the Minister set out the Government ' s ambition and timescale for local public account committee ? a lot of colleague have talk about restore trust in politic , and I think that openness , in particular on public money , can be deliver in that way . in closing , there be a lot to be excited about in the Bill . I be pleased to see this Labour Government fulfil another manifesto commitment and bring real change for our community . I have cut my six - minute speech down to three . I be a supporter of devolution and devolve power , community empowerment and local decision making . in my seat , we have a combine authority and , as I mention early , the benefit bring by the West Yorkshire Mayor in transport , with a new bus station , and in crime and policing . however , my community , even after be part of the combine authority for so long , be still not clear on where exactly the responsibility of the council stop and those of the mayor start , or how they work together . I therefore stand here with some deep concern . instead of empower community , the Bill risk recentralise power and bypass local ward councillor and local actor who truly represent our diverse community . in Kirklees , we have a cabinet system : eight councillor , none of whom be from Dewsbury and Batley , make major decision that have an impact on every single resident and constituent in my constituency . move to a mandated cabinet system across the country be short - sighted , undemocratic , biased and discriminatory . the Bill ' s design place sweep strategic power in the hand of elect mayor and their appoint commissioner , who be often unelecte . that be not genuine devolution ; it be deception dress up as localism . the second issue be a lack of funding and financial transparency . a core fail of the Bill lie in its fiscal ambiguity . there be little detail on sustainable funding . strategic authority may depend heavily on mayoral precept , levy or council contribution , risk instability and underfunde local service . on transparency , while the creation of a local audit office be welcome , this reactive measure attempt to patch a break audit system where hundred of authority still face unaudited account , without address underlie systemic weakness such as wasteful procurement practice , a lack of transparency and unequal distribution of spend across ward . community voice be too often marginalise . the Bill do not prevent council from let vital community building be deliberately leave in disrepair , then decide to close the building because they do not have the fund to repair or run they . in conclusion , this Bill be not devolution ; it be a shift of power from local council to centrally influence mayor , with an opaque financial model and tokenistic community tool . the Bill must be update to restore genuine local leadership ; to guarantee long - term , transparent funding ; to ensure that procurement and audit practice remain accountable and community - informed ; and to embed real neighbourhood - level governance with proper funding and citizen engagement , planning and influence . english devolution be a mess . it be a postcode patchwork of opaque system , vary power and unclear line of accountability . that be not just an historical failure , but profoundly dangerous , because when the public can not navigate their democracy or do not know who hold the pen on planning , transport , housing or skill , they understandably disengage . accountability be lose , and in that vacuum politician can get away with anything . I will give the House one clear example : in Hartlepool , the Tees Valley Mayor have impose a mayoral development corporation with very little consultation — certainly not with the public . planning power be strip from the council for large area of the town , supposedly to be exercise by an appoint board . we fight hard to secure some form of democratic representation on that board , yet of its 14 member , only four hold elect office and only one be there because they have elect office . in any event , the mayor quickly outsource the majority of those power to a private company in Manchester , so people who have never walk our street be now make the majority of the decision shape they . do my hon . friend agree that mayoral development corporation need to be bring under the remit of the new local audit office that be propose in the Bill , place the power to audit they beyond reasonable doubt ? I agree that far great power be require to hold mayoral development corporation to account , and that may be one way of do it . the change be not just about plan power : publicly own asset be be transfer from the council and other public body . when labour councillor demand that those asset , which include Hartlepool ' s civic centre , would be return to public ownership if they be not develop or if the corporation be wind up , that demand be refuse . when we ask whether the council could resist this change , the advice be stark : we could not , there be no veto and it could not be stop by the council . when the council vote against a mayoral development corporation just down the road in Middlesbrough , it be impose on the town anyway . let I be clear that I be not oppose to the principle of development corporation . I be willing to support the one in Hartlepool in the spirit of cross - party co - operation , but the outcome have become confused , with zero accountability and resident leave unclear about who to turn to , especially as more and more house in multiple occupation pop up across our town centre , put there by an unelected , unaccountable company . this be not power in the hand of the people . devolution be suppose to mean decision make close to community , but too often the reality be the opposite : power hoard and push far away from the very neighbourhood that be suppose to be empower . that be why I support the we ' re right here campaign , which ask that power do not stop at the mayor ' s office but flow to the people themselves . it be champion by Hartlepool ' s own community leader , Sacha Bedding . it be a way forward and I hope that minister be listen . we must ensure that there be accountability for mayor . they can be the vehicle for deliver for the public , but the power itself can lie only in one place : with the people . that bring we to the Front - Bench spokespeople . I call David Simmonds . it have be a wide - range debate . I particularly thank my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) and my hon . friend the Members for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) , for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) , for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) , for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) , for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) , for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) and for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) for their contribution . the range of issue that they and other member cover starkly highlight the wholesale inadequacy of the Bill in relation to the scale of the challenge that our country and our community face . there be big issue face local government , which deal with some of the most difficult task face by any of our public service . we know that the cost of social care be rapidly grow and will consume a great share of the available resource . since this Government take office , there have be a collapse in the delivery of new housing . it be down 17 % in the country as a whole and there have be a 66 % drop by large social landlord under Mayor Khan here in London . as we have see in the news today , the Government ' s chum in the union have vote to extend their strike until March 2026 . the people of our second city be leave with their waste uncollected and population of rat . as an MP for a constituency neighbour Birmingham , I see all too often the impact of the strike . do my hon . friend agree that this issue be absolutely shocking ? the one thing that resident expect from their local council be a regular collection of their household waste , and often garden waste and recycling as well . Birmingham city council be fail the resident . I thank my right hon . friend for highlight that issue ; she have be a champion for the voice of those affect by it . while I understand that minister have come to the Dispatch Box time and again and say that they must wash their hand of it , the union say in their statement today that there be " no point " negotiate with the council , because it lack the authority to resolve the issue . the Government need to roll up their sleeve and get involve . while our second city struggle with these challenge , here we have a piece of legislation about tinker with structure . not only that , but , as we learn just a week ago , it be an entirely uncoste plan . the Department have not undertake any assessment of the cost - benefit of the measure contain in this legislation . that come against the backdrop of the decision of this government which , as we know , be make the financial situation of our country more perilous by the day . in the first few month of this financial year alone , the Government borrow £ 60 billion more than they raise in taxis . borrowing cost have hit a 27 - year high — a level see only in the early day of the last Labour Government in 1998 . this Bill open the door to a host of tax - raise power . as we go through the page and page of new power for Ministers and the Secretary of State to direct local authority in one way or another and to instruct community to accept this or that , we see the prospect of local authority , which be already leave a net £ 1 . 5 billion bad off by the Government ' s rise in national insurance contribution , face the maxing out of parking charge , huge increase in borrowing and big rise in business rate and council tax . the £ 60 billion black hole that this Government have create just in this financial year will need to be bridge somehow . the Chancellor will be back to tell we how in a few week ' or month ' time , but I think we can see a clue already that local community and local authority will be the route by which those cost be raise . when we read what this Bill have to say about neighbourhood governance , the threat be very clear even at parish council level . those parish — the small unit of local government , but one with precepte power — will be one of the local kitty that the Government expect to raid to finance the consequence of their economic mismanagement . when we think of Sir Humphrey ' s famous advice that it be always good to " dispose of the difficult bit in the title " of the Bill , because it do a lot less harm there than in the text , we can see that when this Bill talk about devolution , it devolve to the local level the responsibility for those tax rise and service cut . can the Minister tell the House how many library will close to pay for this Bill ? how many road project will be set aside ? how many more community , such as those refer to by the labour leader of Shrewsbury , will lose their regular recycling and bin collection to pay for it ? how high will council tax go ? what be the limit that Ministers will set on the tax rise that the Bill will drive ? what be the maximum parking charge or fine that minister think it be reasonable for council to have ? what level of cost will local business have to face ? when we debate the Bill on business rate that sit behind many of the financial element of this Bill , Ministers say that they want to tax Amazon , but they end up tax our local high street store and our pub . on average , local pub alone have to pay £ 6 , 500 extra a year , and that be before the £ 60 billion that this Government have borrow in the last few month . I be go to finish with a direct plea to the Minister , for whom I have a great deal of respect . he lead his party in local government — he be its champion — and for many year , he be a local councillor too , earn a huge degree of respect in this House and in that wide family as a result of the work he do . at the Government ' s favour population level for new unitary authority , this Bill abolish 90 % of all the councillor in England ' s shire at the stroke of a bureaucrat ' s pen . that be 90 % of the voice of those local community — people such as Chris Whitbread , who stand up for his community against this Government over the Bell Hotel in Epping . these people have be the voice of their community on migrant hotel , on protect their green belt and on air quality . they be the people who stand up for their local community on issue such as the grooming gang , which we hear so much about early from the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) . this Bill could have be transformational — a chance to step up that voice of local community . I be sorry that the Minister lose his battle to let those community keep their voice , but he still have time to change course , to support our reason amendment , start again , and build a cross - party consensus on the future of local government . let this not be the funeral oration for local democracy in England . I thank hon . member from across the House for their contribution to today ' s important debate . the sheer number of member who want to speak demonstrate how important these issue be , and the passion and enthusiasm show by member of this House make absolutely clear their care for their community , as well as their desire to see local economy thrive and for the benefit of growth to be feel by every community across the country . this Bill represent a generational shift in power that will see community empowerment enshrine in law and local leader and mayor with skin in the game , trust to get on and do the job they have be elect to do in a new relationship of equal with central Government — one build on a share commitment to people and place , mutual respect and co - operation . the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill do exactly what its title say . it effect a top - to - bottom redistribution of power in this country , put decision making in the hand of our region , town , city and community and deliver real change for work people in the place they call home , bring growth and opportunity and empower local leader and our mayor to make the right decision alongside their local community . as my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister say at the start of the debate , this be a landmark Bill that will help we build a modern state base on a fair , strong partnership between central and local government . for too long , power and opportunity have be centralise in Westminster and Whitehall , hold back growth across the country and deny million of people the opportunity to realise the potential they have within they . our new approach to devolution and empowerment begin the work of fix that — power up our region through devolution by default and the right to request , as well as new power , resource and freedom , and introduce measure to fix local government and its fragile audit regime through sustainable structure and governance . it also give real power to community through the community right to buy local asset , root in our high street , neighbourhood and sporting ground , and it give they a great say in local issue , with frontline ward councillor give the respect , power and tool they need to make a difference in their community through neighbourhood work arrangement in every council across the country . when we say this be a top - to - bottom transfer of power , we mean it . before I turn to the main issue raise in the debate , I will first address the reason amendment table by the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , and also maybe touch on some of the point make by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) . anybody would think that the Conservatives have not be in government for 14 year , absolutely smash local government to the core . anybody would believe that council be not fall over like domino , go bust on their watch , and that the fragmented , deal - by - deal , backroom - negotiate devolution we have have so far do not take place on their watch over 14 year . let we forget the past , though , and look to the future . the reasoned amendment raise concern about local government reorganisation , which — as we have hear from member across the House — be a big and important issue . it also talk about housing delivery and claim that the Bill mean high bill for local resident . I can assure the House that those concern be misplace , and frankly , the opposition know that . first , the Bill will not affect the process for the 21 area already undergo reorganisation . those 21 area have respond to their invitation to reorganise already . they have no choice ! they absolutely have a choice . it be an invitation that 21 county have respond to , demonstrate without a doubt that the appetite and interest for reorganisation be there within community , and they respond in that way . this process will deliver strong , sustainable unitarie , capable of lead their community , shape neighbourhood and convene local public service to deliver well outcome for local resident . this process be separate from the Bill . in fact , the devolution priority programme area of local government reorganisation will be submit their final proposal to Government on 26 September . all other area will submit their final proposal on 28 November . before this Bill even get out of Committee , local government reorganisation will have final proposal for the 21 county in the two - tier area . the idea that the Bill be bring an end to the two - tier system be for the bird . by the time it reach Royal Assent , the work will have be do and the consultation will be take place and well under way . the opposition know that , of course , because they use exactly the same process of reorganisation so many time when they be in government to reduce the number of councillor , reduce the number of council and end the two - tier system in county across the country . to the opposition ' s credit , end the two - tier system be a proven model , because once local government reorganisation have take place in an area — by the way , I have not hear anybody call realistically for a return to the old system — saving can be make . there be a world of difference between those and the saving that Government will take , as central Government be make no saving from local council . that change give the freedom to move money up and down that two - tier system to where the real pressure be be face : adult social care and SEND in particular . if we do not take action after 14 year of inaction , the system will fall over , and we will not allow it to fall over on our watch , however bad the inheritance might have be . the opposition know all that , because they lay the groundwork and be the architect of the current system . this Bill also give ambitious planning power for mayor to unlock housing and infrastructure , work alongside parliamentarian and local councillor , with power to intervene in major strategic planning application and to grant mayoral development order . will the Minister give way ? I be afraid that with the time we have , I need to canter through . the Bill also allow mayoral development corporation to be establish and for a mayoral community infrastructure levy to be charge , so that we can unlock much - need housing and infrastructure to get Britain building once again . thirdly , the Opposition claim that this Bill introduce a new precept and will raise bill for work people . I remind they that the mayoral precept have be in law since 2017 . in fact , it be a Conservative Government who bring it into law , give all mayor the power to introduce a precept , so we will not take lecture from they on those power . I will say this , because I believe in devolution : pound for pound , local people — through their local council , their local mayor and their combined authority — see the benefit of that investment in a real way in their neighbourhood , their community and their town . for large part of Government spending , for different reason , they do not get that in a tangible way . the accountability that then come alongside it be important . finally , the reason amendment table by the Conservatives claim that this Bill fail to empower local people . as the House have hear , that be far from the case . this be a generational change , move power away from Whitehall , with the tool need at a local level to get thing go through community right to buy , neighbourhood governance and all the thing that be be ask for . we urge all colleague to vote against the reason amendment in a few moment . this Bill see the system of devolution move away from an ad hoc , inconsistent and deal - by - deal model , replace it with a model that be clear about what place can access , when they can access it , and under what condition . our new system confer function on class of strategic authority to allow we to deliver our commitment for devolution by default and to streamline those function , so that all part of England can be clear about what power they can access . member have raise the supplementary vote a number of time . the Government have no plan to change the electoral system for the UK Parliament or for local council election in England . the Government believe that while the first - past - the - post system have its place , the SV system be the right thing to do for those executive position where an individual hold that executive power , and the mandate from local people be important . that have be raise a number of time , and I hope that put that to bed . on local authority , this Government have be clear that we will fix the foundation of local government and create a system that be fit , legal and decent . change to governance arrangement be one way that we be simplify local government . alongside our intention to strengthen the role of frontline ward councillor , this will provide the tool that will make it possible to act on the local issue that people believe be important . by abolish the committee system , we will simplify local authority governance arrangement and ensure that all council operate an executive form of governance . I have hear the representation from Sheffield Members and other , and meeting will take place to discuss that far , but abolish the committee system will provide clarity and accountability for local people , and importantly will strengthen that direct line of democratic accountability . we have accept the continuation of the 13 legacy directly elect council mayor , while introduce measure to prevent the creation of any new one . the subject of neighbourhood governance have also be raise . the Bill set out a clear ambition for all local authority to hardwire community engagement and neighbourhood work into their governance . I do , of course , hear the call on behalf of town and parish council , and I share member ' commitment to that local level , but if all we have be town and parish council operate at a local level and no neighbourhood governance in the principal council , we will miss the opportunity to hardwire localism in everything that council do . we believe that we must have that hardwiring so that local people feel genuinely empower . that be the only difference , however : this be completely compatible with town and parish council work in partnership . when that be effective , they work in unison for the benefit of the local community , which be what we want to see from now on . a significant amount of attention have rightly be pay to the subject of asset of community value . as we have all see , community space such as pub , cultural venue and place of worship be the life of our community . they bring people together , foster a sense of community pride and support local economy . however , 14 year of the previous Government see a total dismantling of that social infrastructure . People will be far too familiar with the sight of high street be board up one by one , and with community centre be sell off , library be lose and park be forget . place that once define a locality have be strip away by 14 lose year . too many of those critical asset be be lose , which be lead to soulless high street and less vibrant local community . that be not because of a lack of will in local community . it be because they do not have the tool and the power to protect those asset and take they on . with the Bill we be start the work to build back strong community , which be due in no small part to the significant campaigning of the co - operative movement and the mps here in the House who have make the case clearly that , in the end , ownership matter . we will give community the tool and the real power to take on the asset that they love , because that be the right thing to do . on all these issue the previous Government could have do far more , but what do we hear over the course of today ' s debate ? we hear Opposition member say , " you be go too far — it be a power grab " , and in the same breath , " you be not go far enough , and you could have do more . " the truth be that this be a generational shift in power which will see a break - up of the stranglehold that Westminster and Whitehall have retain for far too long against community across the country . this will be do with local community , not to they , and indeed that be what have happen so far . whether we be talk about our approach to fair funding and repair the foundation , our approach to local government reorganisation or even our approach to devolution , this have all be do in genuine partnership with local leader who be work together . what I find so astonishing — and there be a night - and - day difference here — be the almost soulless response from Opposition Front Benchers who decry all these measure , omit to say that their own local councillor be lead the charge at a local level . the leadership that have be show , even by conservative council leader , put those Opposition Front Benchers to shame . I do not know how many visit they make around the country , but I can not imagine that their local representative value the interpretation that have be present from the Conservative Front Bench , whether it be about election , devolution or reorganisation . we be not ask Conservatives Members to be as good as the Government , but we be ask they to be at least as good as their own councillor , and to stand with they instead of stand against they . I urge all member to support this landmark Bill . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Paul Kohler John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Harriet Cross Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Gen Kitchen the House divide : Ayes 167 , Noes 367 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Keir Mather Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Paul Kohler John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Harriet Cross Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 365 , Noes 164 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . english Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Wednesday 12 November 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( a ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State , and ( b ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill , it be expedient to authorise — ( a ) the charging of fee under or by virtue of the Act , and ( b ) the charging of Community Infrastructure Levy by mayor for the area of combined authority or combine county authority . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , I will put motion 6 to 11 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Regulatory Reform that the draft Legislative Reform ( Disclosure of Adult Social Care Data ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 21 May , be approve . house that the draft Electrical Safety Standards in the private Rented Sector ( England ) ( amendment ) ( extension to the Social Rented Sector ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 25 June , be approve . that the draft Hazards in Social Housing ( Prescribed Requirements ) ( England ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 25 June , be approve . prison that the draft Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( Removal of Prisoners for deportation ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 25 June , be approve . local Government that the draft Local Audit ( Amendment of Definition of Smaller Authority ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 16 June , be approve . Hovercraft that the draft Hovercraft ( Application of Enactments ) ( amendment ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 1 July , be approve . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . Petition - GP Practice in Burton , Dorset it be a pleasure to be able to present this petition , which have be organise by Mr and Mrs Mackenzie - Cook of Burton in Christchurch , who , along with thousand of other local resident , have be campaign for the reopening of Burton ' s only gp surgery , which prior to its closure in August last year have serve the people of Burton for over 40 year . with local encouragement , another GP practice buy the premise early this year and everyone assume that its application to reopen the branch surgery would be a formality . but in April , Dorset ' s integrate care board reject that application , and we now need the Government to overrule the unelected ICB and show everyone that they be be genuine at the general election when they promise to increase access to GP service rather than to reduce it . the petition state : the petition of resident of the village of Burton in the constituency of Christchurch declare that the petitioner and other resident of the village of Burton in the constituency of Christchurch have the benefit of a local accessible gp practice on Burton Green for over 40 year prior to its closure in August 2024 ; be delighted that early this year South Coast Medical acquire the premise for the purpose of open a new branch of the Grove Practice follow a welcome refusal by the local planning authority to permit a change of use on the ground of loss of community benefit ; and be outraged that the Dorset Integrated Care Board have since refuse permission for the re - opening of the surgery . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to overrule the Dorset Integrated Care Board ' s decision to refuse permission for the re - opening of a gp surgery in Burton , which ignore , inter alia , the need and wish of the people of Burton and the fact that new housing already in receipt of planning permission will generate demand from an additional 2 , 000 patient for local GP service . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003107 ] Solar Development : Newark Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) Madam Deputy Speaker , can I begin by thank you — and , through you , Mr Speaker — for grant I this Adjournment debate ? it be unusual to allocate Adjournment debate to member of the shadow Cabinet , but I want to raise this important matter on behalf of my constituent . I have write to the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero on a number of occasion ask he to meet I , but he decline to do so . I want to speak about the three propose solar farm in my constituency : the one Earth project , the Great North Road solar farm and the Steeple renewable scheme . take together , these project would be of continental scale . between they , they would cover at least 10 , 000 acre of land , make they collectively the large solar installation in Europe . to put that in perspective , my constituency be a large and rural one that stretch nearly 60 mile from north to south , and at least 9 % of its entire land mass would be turn into a single industrial complex — an industrial farm of black glass , metal fencing , substation and , inevitably , vast battery storage plant . this be not just about Newark . across the Trent valley , in Nottinghamshire and Lincolnshire , the cumulative impact be immense . in my constituency , the figure be 9 % ; in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) it be 7 % ; and in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) it be 5 % . this be not a scattering of panel across this part of the county ; it be the concentration of a vast burden on one small corner of England ' s countryside . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I call Jim Shannon to intervene , on large - scale solar development in the Newark constituency . this be not just about Newark ; it affect its neighbour as well . it be an issue across the whole of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and these large - scale plan will definitely affect we all . I understand the need for renewable energy , but our farmer and their need , and the food security of this nation , must come first . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that , when it come to ensure that we have food security , the same rule must apply across the whole of the United Kingdom ? on a side note , I see that he have be active in put flag up . I have some 60 year ' experience of put flag up and I would be happy to help he . the hon . member be always welcome to come up a ladder with I in Newark . perhaps I will pay he a visit as well to fix some Union flag . the hon . member be right to say that these project affect constituency the length and breadth of the United Kingdom . many of they — all three project I be raise today — be treat as nationally significant infrastructure project . that mean the final decision will land not with local community or district or county council , but squarely on the desk of Ministers in Whitehall . it be right that debate like this occur and elect member such as myself have the opportunity to raise the argument with Ministers before they ultimately make these crucial decision . let I make one point crystal clear at the outset : this be not about nimbyism . when I be Housing Secretary , I hear member of this House begin speech with those word time and again , and my heart use to sink because invariably they would go on to make an argument that be at its heart nimbyism . however , I do not recall ever , in my 11 year in Parliament , raise in this House a campaign against a housing development in my constituency — not once . Newark have accept thousand of new home and new estate , and I have support those development . we have also accept our share of energy project . we host small - scale solar farm , which I have not object to . we host battery storage facility and have absorb significant disruption from new and potentially exciting energy project , such as the West Burton fusion project on the site of a former coal - fire power station . this be not a constituency that resist change . it be not a part of the country that be immune to energy project . the entire history of north Nottinghamshire have be one of energy generation — it be in the blood of my constituent . my constituent be pragmatic , reasonable and patriotic people who want to share a part of the nation ' s burden in meet its energy need , as they have do for generation , but what be be propose now be on an extraordinary scale . it be disproportionate and damaging and it can not be justify . this have become a David and Goliath struggle . on one side be small village , sometimes not even parish council but parish meeting , and hamlet where neighbour have have to mobilise and join force to get their view hear . on the other side be international company with deep pocket , slick pr machine and army of consultant . I pay tribute here in the House to those parish council , parish meeting and campaign group who have fight with such courage and determination . they have have to master planning law , pore over technical survey and produce community response , all with minimal resource . contrast that with the developer : I have find they at time aggressive , loose with the fact and willing to submit survey that be frankly absurd , so it be a David and Goliath situation . why be we oppose this development ? first , I have never know an issue to arouse such opposition in my constituency . I survey resident , and 90 % say no . the community be speak with one voice , and let I say why . first , these solar panel be present as clean and green , but as we all know in this House , the reality be murky . Most panel sell in the UK contain material source in China , often from region such as Xinjiang where there be compelling evidence of force labour . Britain should take a lead against exploitation , not collude with it in our supply chain . secondly , there be danger from flooding and fire . these project inevitably require vast battery storage installation . around the world , we have see that those battery can ignite and that catastrophic fire can occur , sometimes release toxic smoke that be challenge to extinguish . several such fire have already occur here in Britain , as they have abroad . in the flood - prone Trent valley , the risk be great . put panel , substation and battery in area liable to flooding present a serious danger to life and property . thirdly , even if one support solar , it should be put on rooftop and brownfield land first . across Britain , there be 600 , 000 acre of south - face industrial rooftop — warehouse , supermarket , car park — yet they stand largely empty . why be we sacrifice our fine farmland when those space be still unused ? community in Newark be affect like community on Ynys M ô n . productive land on Ynys M ô n create good agricultural outcome and mean a good rural economy . productivity on Ynys M ô n be £ 4 , 000 below the Welsh average , and build new large - scale solar will have an impact on that . do the right hon . Member agree that the Government should reject project such as Maen Hir and undertake economic impact assessment on such development to safeguard rural economy ? the hon . Lady make an important point . we should think about the impact on rural community . large project such as those that I be speak about will have a profound impact on rural community . to go back to the point I be make , why be we not use every incentive possible to ensure that such project be place on warehouse or factory rather than on beautiful and important countryside ? it make no sense . fourthly , let I address the impact on the countryside itself . these be some of the fine landscape in Nottinghamshire and Lincolnshire . they will be scarred for generation . some family will find solar farm just metre from their garden . Imagine walk the dog not along a hedgerow , but between two 3 . 5 - metre - high metal fence bristling with CCTV camera . Imagine go for a run , flank for mile not by roll british countryside but by 4 - metre - high wall of black glass . that be not the rural England that my constituent cherish . fifthly , there will be a massive impact on rural life . I believe in house building , but if we encircle village with solar farm , we will make it nigh - on impossible to have organic housing growth in those village in the year to come , at a time when our country need new house in rural community . I know that there be rule about shadow Ministers speak in Adjournment debate , but with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make an intervention . my right hon . friend have make an important point about the impact on the local economy and the option of farming and new housing . if 10 % of the land area of Newark be be cover in one thing , that limit lot of other opportunity . do he feel that the Government have get the right balance in their push for net zero ? my hon . friend make an important point . the answer be no . if we want to pursue net zero — even with the zealotry of some in the government — we have to strike a balance . it be not be pursue in a proportionate and sensible way . it be alienate people — thousand of people in my constituency — many of whom feel passionately about this issue but do not want to see their countryside destroy and their quality of life ruin . my constituency have a similar situation to the one the right hon . Gentleman be describe . the village of Scotton , which be home to the house where Guy Fawkes grow up , risk be encircle by a similar sort of development . People on the ground be pragmatic , but the issue come down to planning rule and law . it be simply not pragmatic or possible to get emergency vehicle or heavy good vehicle through those community . do he agree that there need to be a more common - sense approach to tackle these issue in rural community ? I certainly do . the hon . Gentleman make an important point . imagine the disruption , even just for a couple of year , of construct 10 , 000 acre of solar farm in small rural area with country lane . it will be absolutely immense . sixthly , on food security , the land that I be speak about be not scrubland , but some of the good and most versatile farmland in England . to take it out of production for 25 year be reckless . a 2023 report for the Welsh Government find that solar farm risk cause soil compaction and permanent damage , reduce yield long after the panel be go . in Nottinghamshire and Lincolnshire , 99 . 1 % of solar installation already sit on our good farmland . developer ' soil test conveniently downgrade land quality , but those be survey they commission themselves . once farmland be lose , we become dependent on import , which be often produce to low standard , with great carbon cost and from country where we have no control . that undermine not just food security but national security . it be a pleasure to come in on the side of David versus Goliath . be my right hon . friend aware that the 10 , 000 acre be propose in his constituency could be replace by 5 , 000 acre of float solar on the reservoir of this country ? in my constituency , I have 2 , 000 acre of raise reservoir . they be all close site ; we can not see the top of they . they be twice as efficient as land - base system , and they reduce evaporation by 70 % . would that not be a well way of strike a balance than plaster they all over Newark ? my hon . friend make a very good point , and I know he have speak about this before . let we do exactly that — let we have float solar panel , if there be the appetite for they . let we have solar panel on our factory and warehouse , above our multi - storey car park and on home , frankly , but let we not destroy the countryside for a generation or more . I should note my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a landowner , and I should also acknowledge that the right hon . Gentleman be my Member of Parliament . I will make a helpful contribution in a moment , but I wonder what his view be on landowner choice in this . one of the solar application he be reference be from a single landowner who have make the choice to put the land forward for this purpose because he live a long way away . how do that fit into the argument he be make as , presumably , a free market economist ? I be not clear from the hon . Gentleman ' s comment whether he support or oppose the vast number of solar farm be build in Nottinghamshire . of course , it be a free market in which landowner can choose to do as they wish . I personally would not do it , because I care more about food security and the countryside and would hope to be more concerned for my neighbour than some of these large landowner be , but what be drive this be the economic of it . the economic be set by Government policy , and the Government have the ability to change the economic and change the planning rule , so that this become difficult , if not impossible . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will , briefly , and then I should conclude . one way of deal with that would be for the Government to prohibit the import of solar panel and insist that , as a condition of such solar farm , panel must be produce within the United Kingdom . would that not be a sensible policy ? my hon . friend make a very good point indeed . the suggestion we have hear over a generation that green job will come to the UK have turn out to largely be a mirage , because so much green technology be , in fact , produce overseas . solar panel be almost exclusively make overseas , often in China , and that be a grave mistake . let I close by make two final point . the first be on the cumulative impact . as I say in my opening remark , this be not about a small solar farm of 100 or 200 acre . this be about almost 10 % of the entire land mass of my constituency be cover in solar panel . if these application be nod through by the Secretary of State , more will follow . where do this end ? will we have a situation in five , 10 or 15 year where 20 % or a third of the countryside in my constituency be cover in solar panel ? that do not seem in any way impossible to I . enough be enough , and my constituent be sick to death of it . we have to ensure that their concern be hear and the cumulative effect be take into account . this matter not just to my constituent ; it matter to the country , because the loss of food security in place like Nottinghamshire or Lincolnshire will affect all of we . let I give an example . the three Newark project cover 10 , 000 acre amount to land that could support more than 73 , 000 sheep , or produce 20 million loaf of bread or 700 million Weetabix . that be food production on a massive scale that we can not afford to sacrifice . every solar farm will beget more : a new substation lead to more application ; then come the battery storage plant ; and soon the cumulative effect be devastating . that be why my constituent oppose the three scheme with such passion . that be why I be in the Chamber this evening , to ask the Minister to give the application due consideration when they land on her desk , or that of the Secretary of State , in time . I appreciate that she may be limit in what she can say , because of the planning process , but in due course I ask she to put herself in the shoe of my constituent , to think how she would feel if a 3 . 5 - metre solar panel be build next to her house or if the village that she love be ruin , and how she feel about the future of our country if our food security be to be sacrifice in this way . I congratulate the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) on secure a debate on this important issue on behalf of his constituent . as he have acknowledge , I be limited in what I can say about specific project within the planning system , but before I move on to address some of the detail that he have mention in his speech , I will explain why solar be so important to our energy security , to low bill , and for climate action . More than three year on from Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , our energy system remain at the mercy of price fluctuation on the international fossil fuel market . wholesale gas price remain high — 75 % high than before Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine . the simple fact be that the only way to get energy bill down for good be to reduce our dependence on fossil fuel . that be why one of the Government ' s guide mission be to achieve clean power by 2030 . Solar , as the cheap and most easily deployable renewable energy source , be right at the heart of that mission . our clean power action plan , publish last December , set out that 45 GW to 47 GW of solar power be require by 2030 , up from about 19 GW at present . thankfully , our vastly experienced UK solar sector stand ready to deploy at pace and at scale . one of the first thing that we do on get into government last year be to consent to several major solar project that have be stick in the in - tray . Solar be overwhelmingly popular with the british public . our recent public attitude survey find that solar energy be support by 86 % of the public — that figure have never drop below 80 % . I agree with the right hon . member for Newark , however , that if we want to keep support for solar that high , it must be roll out in a way that provide community with a say and with a direct benefit if they host clean power project . first , that mean protect local community and ensure that only the right project get the green light from the planning system . all project be subject to a rigorous planning process in which the view and interest of local community be consider . that include thing such as the potential impact on biodiversity , the local economy , visual amenity , protect landscape and land use . secondly , it be essential that community feel involved in the decision making on project . developer of project large than 50 MW , which qualify as nationally significant infrastructure , must complete considerable community engagement before any decision be take . I remind the right hon . Gentleman that we be about to return control over a great number of those project to local authority by double the threshold to 100 MW . that will come into force at the end of this year . for project of all size , however , the level and quality of community engagement by developer be take into account by decision maker . the right hon . member for Newark express concern about the use of agricultural land . the planning guidance make it clear that , whenever possible , developer should utilise brownfield , industrial , contaminate or previously develop land . where the development of agricultural land be show to be necessary , low - quality land should be prefer to high - quality land , but it be important that we do not overstate the amount of land that be use for solar development . in the solar road map , which be publish in June , we set out our expectation that , even in the most ambitious scenario , only up to 0 . 4 % of UK land would be devote to solar — significantly less , as member may be aware , than be currently cover by golf course . I will come on to the issue of clustering and concentration in a moment . the right hon . Gentleman mention food security . we do not accept that there be a trade - off between solar deployment and food security . in fact , the chief climate adviser to the National Farmers Union state recently that there be no threat to national food security from solar . the right hon . Gentleman mention biodiversity . there be evidence that solar can improve biodiversity when it be instal on agricultural land — he talk about sheep and mention sheep graze under solar panel . under biodiversity net gain , project small than 50 MW be require to increase biodiversity by 10 % , and we be investigate the possibility of extend BNG to nationally significant project as well . I do not know if he have read the recent study by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and the University of Cambridge that find that solar farm in East Anglia have up to three time more bird than surround arable farmland . when local community do their country a great service , as the right hon . Gentleman say , by host solar farm , it be important that they enjoy a share of the benefit . in a recent work paper , we propose that it should be mandatory for developer to provide community benefit fund . the work paper include a call for evidence seek view on facilitate share ownership and on whether the Government should consider expand shared ownership , and we be currently work to get that framework right . have work in the energy industry , I be a strong proponent of local area energy plan that would empower community to plan their energy need . one of the big issue for constituent be that energy planning feel very reactive and be base on what landowner choose to do . it would be far more empower to encourage community to look at the land within their local authority or a big area and to proactively plan , just as we do with housing . will the Minister consider think about how she can work with other Departments to encourage local area energy plan to have a statutory basis ? I be pretty sure that my hon . friend have raise that issue at Energy Security and Net Zero question before . I will remind the Minister for Energy , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , to engage far with he about that . on clustering , and come to the nub of the right hon . Gentleman ' s speech , some community feel that what they be be ask to host be excessive . I have a few response to that issue . first , the planning system include provision to assess cumulative impact under such circumstance , so that should be a part of the process . secondly , we will be change the way that we allocate energy infrastructure around the country . to date , developer have be incentivise to build project where there be spare grid capacity and in industrial area , such as the midland . that be why there be that attraction and that can lead to clustering . in the future , we will take a completely different approach to the one that we inherit from the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government . we have commission the National Energy System Operator to create a strategic spatial energy plan that will set out a strategy for how new infrastructure should be spread across the country . by invest in our electricity network and our grid , we can ensure that the grid will go where the project be , rather than the other way around . I wish I have time to answer all the other point that the right hon . Gentleman raise about storage and safety , but I will be happy to do so in writing . finally , I want to focus on what we be do to accelerate solar deployment on rooftop . we will encourage the installation of solar on new - build housing and on commercial building through new building standard . the vast majority of new home build under these standard will have rooftop solar fit . we have permit development right to allow most rooftop project to proceed without an application for planning permission , and we have just conduct a call for evidence about add solar canopy in car park . great British Energy be put solar on 200 school and on 200 NHS site to bring down bill and build more local clean power . next month , we will launch our ambitious warm home plan , with £ 13 . 2 billion available to support people with the upfront cost of instal green technology , include rooftop solar , insulation of home , heat pump and so on . we be unleash a rooftop revolution because we think that rooftop be so important , but the scale of the challenge face we , to get to clean power by 2030 and to ramp up renewable , mean that ground - mount solar and float solar , which the Government also support , have to be a part of the plan . to sum up , we take the concern raise by the right hon . Gentleman very seriously . we want to take people with we on our clean power mission , which will work only if we do so . we be put measure in place to get the planning process right , to ensure that community benefit from host clean energy , and to support the strategic spread of project across the country , include in urban area , through our rooftop revolution . I be glad that the british people agree with we that solar be a vital part of our future energy mix , but we be never complacent about retain that support . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for give I the opportunity to set out — in brief , at least — our position , and he will appreciate why we can not be too specific about some of the point he raise . question put and agree to . House adjourn .