the Minister raise the important issue of the cost of living . give the dire economic impact of Brexit , include food inflation be eight time high than it would otherwise have be , and the cost of leave the European Union amount to £ 1 million an hour in 2022 , accord to datum from the Office for National Statistics , do he agree with I that it make total economic sense for the UK and the people in it to use next week ' s summit to start discussion with the EU on what the process of rejoin might be , and the timing for that ? many people may still be find thing a little bit gloomy and challenging as a result of the mess leave by the previous Government , as I be after 10 month of be a Member of Parliament , but today I be incredibly heartened . it be probably the happy day I have spend in the House yet , because we have a real opportunity to be hopeful and positive about the future of this country . the ideology and chaos that have cause so much damage , with the Conservative Government run frit from the Reform party , have now give way to a party that be pragmatic and have prove itself to be competent . I would love at this stage to congratulate the Government on their tremendous securing of trade deal with India and the USA . I be look forward to the hat - trick , where we secure a trade deal with the European Union that be even big and well than either of those two , and all in the british interest . what be absolutely clear to I — everybody know this in the Labour party and it run through everything the Prime Minister have say — be that this country need growth . over the last 14 year , service have be decimate . every time the new Government open a cupboard , we find it bare . we have to rebuild our public service , and the swift way to get growth in the economy be by have a good trade deal with the European Union . nothing will guarantee swifter growth for the economy . I find it very hard to take anything that the Conservatives say with any degree of seriousness . what be their explanation for why , after 14 year , public service be on their knee and we have see a collapse in the economy ? we even hear a Conservative Front Bencher , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , say that there have be growth since leave the European Union despite Brexit — even the Conservatives admit that it be a disaster . nothing will deliver the growth that this country need fast than sign a good deal with the European Union , slash red tape and reduce regulation with the big market on our doorstep . open up market , kick - start growth , boost export and investment and reduce price at home — this prize would be welcome by anyone who be not a crazy ideologue . we on the Government side be not crazy ideologue or prisoner of our past — or of a television programme from the past . the action that the Conservatives take while in government have damage the british people . business across the country , and in Chelsea and Fulham , want we to get a good deal from the European Union . People in my constituency do not want we to rejoin the EU , and I be not talk about rejoin . they would like we still to be in it , and they think it have do they damage . the importer of wine in my constituency who have to pay £ 160 for every consignment he now bring in would like we still to be in the EU and to not have to face that . but they do not want we to spend the next five year renegotiate the deal . oh , it be sarcasm . as I be say , I be very pleased , as many be , with the Government for be cool - headed and have a common - sense approach . we be go to reset our relationship with the European Union and put Britain first . put Britain first have to also mean put our young people first , so I be excite by the opportunity for young people in my constituency and every constituency to take advantage of a time - limit , control visa - base youth system , which we already have with a dozen country . I can tell the right hon . Gentleman what people in Chelsea and Fulham really want . they do not want a Prime Minister like the last one — a business Prime Minister — who say that we would level up to help people across the country but then do nothing about it . what they want be a Prime Minister who will invest in increase skill and apprenticeship right across the country , as ours say yesterday that he will . that be what we need , and that be what we be get now . Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Vicky Foxcroft Anna Turley Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers James Wild Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Richard Holden David Simmonds