Oral Answers to Questions Home Department the Secretary of State be ask — Neighbourhood police what step she be take to ensure that the police have adequate resource to help tackle neighbourhood crime . what step she be take to improve the effectiveness of community police . what discussion she have have with the Metropolitan police on the effectiveness of community police . what recent progress her Department have make on improve neighbourhood policing . before I respond , I be sure that the whole House will want to remember pc Rosie Prior , who be tragically kill on Saturday while help at the scene of an accident , and Ryan Welford , who be also kill . pc prior ' s death be a tragic reminder of the dedication and bravery that police officer show every single day to keep we safe . all our thought be with her family , friend and colleague at this difficult time . as the Prime Minister announce last month in the " plan for Change " , we be determined to restore neighbourhood policing and to put 13 , 000 additional police , police community support officer and special constable back on the beat . I refer the House to my register interest , and I echo the sentiment express by the Home Secretary . last year , the Leicestershire police panel raise serious concern about be underfunde , have receive a real - term cut of 20 % over the past 13 year . due to this funding crisis , the police simply do not have enough manpower for night - time patrol . in the Clarendon Park area there have be a wave of burglary in local business — the Christopher James Deli , Loros and Spice Bazzar be three of eight that have be smash and grab over the past two month . at the local crime summit that I arrange to discuss the situation , one owner , Jaskaran Dutta , say : " we do everything we can to survive in this incredibly difficult economic time . all we ask be that the government support we by improve policing and security " . what be the Secretary of State do to address these concern ? under the previous Conservative Government , neighbourhood policing be decimate . the proportion of people who say that they never see the police on the beat double . they take police off the beat and do not put they back , which be why we be set out a neighbourhood policing guarantee . we have increase funding for police force by £ 1 billion next year , include £ 100 million specifically to kickstart recruitment for neighbourhood policing . a Carshalton resident have her car steal from her driveway . there be video footage of it , but the police just give she a crime reference number and close the case . local business on Wallington high street tell I that organised shoplifter be act with impunity . the Home Secretary touch on recruitment be part of the solution , but what else can the Government do now to help my constituent feel safe ? the hon . member be right to talk about the deep frustration feel in community , include local business and town centre , about not just the absence of neighbourhood policing , which we need to turn around , but the weakening of power over the past 14 year on thing such as shoplifting . that be why we be introduce new respect order and strengthen power on shoplifting and assault on shop worker . we all know that well - resource neighbourhood policing , with bobby on the beat work in the community , be central not just to solve crime but to prevent it . we see some great result in toot just last year , with a special operation result in a 70 % cut in crime . fourteen year of Tory government have decimate our local police team , despite our brilliant London Mayor pull out all the stop to bolster the number . will the Secretary of State pledge that our local community will have properly resource police team under the new Labour Government ? my hon . friend be right about the importance of have neighbourhood police team work in community with local resident and business , know the kind of crime and challenge that that area face . that be why we be determined not just to get neighbourhood police back on the beat , with funding in place to do so , but to ensure that , as part of a neighbourhood policing guarantee , the officer be not abstract to deal with other thing . in 2022 the chief constable of Devon and Cornwall Police be suspend for misconduct , and last November the interim chief constable be also suspend . now the deputy police and crime commissioner have also resign . do the Home Secretary share my concern about the leadership of Devon and Cornwall Police and the impact on neighbourhood police morale , as well as the fact that the taxpayer be pay for three chief constable , two of whom have be suspend ? I be aware of the point that my hon . friend raise , and I do have concern . it be really important that all police force can strengthen their neighbourhood police and have strong leadership right through the police force . we will set out a new police reform White Paper to ensure that measure be in place to strengthen leadership and standard across police . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . a focus on neighbourhood policing be welcome ; we have see it in Staffordshire for some time . police leader have say that if they do not have the flexibility to recruit as they need to , there be a risk that police officer will end up have to fill vacancy in specialist area . will the Home Secretary listen to police leader and give they that flexibility ? the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee make an important point . we have say that the neighbourhood police team , which we be determined to support , should include police officer and police community support officer , as well as special constable , who too often be underuse and underappreciated , in order to recognise the mix of discipline that we need for the strong and most effective policing . excellent partnership work between Gwent Police , Newport city council and our business improvement district see crime down by 25 % in our city centre at the end of last year , although there be still much to do to improve confidence after neighbourhood policing be slash under the previous Government . do the Home Secretary agree that visibility be key , and will she update we on police number in Wales ? my hon . friend make an important point , because this be about visibility , partnership and power , and she rightly talk about the impact that this kind of work can have . we want to strengthen the work of police officer across England and Wales by strengthen the power they have to tackle shoplifting and street theft — snatch theft — which have both increase in recent year . I call the shadow Minister . the previous Government leave office with record police number , but police and crime commissioner be deeply concerned that the funding formula and settlement , combine with the Government ' s national insurance tax raid , will force cut to frontline police number . my labour police and crime commissioner face a £ 3 million shortfall , and there be projection of 3 , 500 officer be lose nationwide . will the Home Secretary take responsibility if police number fall in the come year ? I should point out to the hon . Gentleman that his Government take neighbourhood police officer off the street , mean thousand few on the street — the number of pcso halve and the number of special constable drop by two third . that be the Conservatives ' shameful record , which people know because they can see it — they do not see police on the street , as a result of his Government ' s action . he raise the issue of funding . this Government have have to add an additional £ 170 million to police force this year because the settlement that his party leave they with be not enough to cover this year ' s pay rise . they let police down . the Home Secretary proudly quote the funding settlement while fail to mention that £ 230 million of it will be snatch straight back as a result of her Government ' s national insurance tax raid on our police force . what can be invest in frontline policing be largely determine by how she manage the Home Office budget . do she agree that it be wrong to spend £ 10 , 000 on a swanky dinner for civil servant , and how will she ensure that never happen again ? I be afraid I have to say to the hon . Gentleman that his party not only let policing and community down by take neighbourhood police off the street , but let police down on the funding . this Government be provide an increase in police funding of up to £ 1 billion next year , on top of the additional funding we have to provide for police this financial year because his party leave a huge black hole in not just Home Office or police officer funding , but overall funding for public service across the board — a shameful legacy that we have have to turn around . firefighter : Occupational Diseases what discussion her Department have have with the Fire Brigades Union on improve protection for firefighter against occupational disease . we engage regularly with the Fire Brigades Union and we take very seriously the health and safety of firefighter , who risk their life for our community every day . the Home Office be review recent academic research to evaluate risk pose by contaminant and the effectiveness of decontamination procedure . we will share our finding with the fire and rescue authority , which hold the legal responsibility to protect firefighter against those risk . I thank the Minister for her answer . exposure to toxic substance be an avoidable risk and every firefighter should have access to the resource they need to protect themselves . the dangerous nature of be a firefighter have also be amplify as the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service have have more than 1 , 400 frontline firefighter job cut since 2010 , a reduction of nearly 20 % . do the Home Secretary agree that the fire service need proper investment and a national body with legal standing to set standard on fire cover , training , equality , and health and safety ? my right hon . friend the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention be look at all fire and rescue issue and consider all possibility , include potential reorganisation , as we move the service forward . will the Minister look at early diagnosis for firefighter because , very sadly , many suffer very bad ill health in retirement ? if they be diagnose early , treatment can be provide to improve the quality and the length of their life . I agree that this be an important area and that much more work need to be do to consider effective contaminant and risk from the danger that firefighter put themselves in every day to protect life . Rural Crime what assessment she have make of the impact of crime on rural community . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle rural crime . what assessment she have make of the impact of crime on rural community . we all understand the devastating harm that crime can cause in rural community . the Government be commit to take action , which be why we will be enact the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 to tackle the theft of agricultural machinery and equipment . we will strengthen enforcement on fly - tipping and antisocial behaviour , and we will deliver more rural patrol through our neighbourhood policing guarantee . I thank the Minister for her answer . she will know that the funding allocation for policing be base on report crime , not underlie crime rate . in rural area such as North Shropshire , people say that they do not always report a crime when it happen . resident in Oswestry and Whitchurch tell I that they do not bother to phone the police because they do not think anyone will come . will she consider reassess the formula to ensure that in rural area the funding reflect the level of underlie crime ? I reassure the hon . Lady that fund for the year 2025 - 26 for her police force will be £ 316 . 3 million , an increase of £ 80 million on the figure from this year . I encourage all people who be victim of crime to report it . we need that information so that the police can then make the require resource available . in my constituency , fly - tipping on farm and private land and the targeted theft of heating oil be cause profound problem for family and business alike . will the Minister update I on progress to tackle rural crime , and will the Home Office consider set up a rural taskforce , work across Departments , to tackle these issue ? I absolutely share my hon . friend ' s concern about the extent of rural crime , particularly fly - tipping . recent research show that 80 % of farmer say they be affect by fly - tipping . I be particularly concerned about the target theft of heating oil from family and business at this time of year . as I say , we will be strengthen neighbourhood police and we will see more patrol in rural area , which will help . we will also have forthcoming legislation to provide the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs with the power it need to support local authority in exercise new fly - tip enforcement power . will the Minister meet I to discuss the effect that rural crime , particularly hare course and , as we have hear today , theft from farm and shed , have on resident in Ely and East Cambridgeshire ? I be always very happy to meet hon . member . the national wildlife crime unit have be do some very good work , include oversee the national police response to hare coursing and Operation Galileo , which have result in a 40 % reduction in offence in that area , but I be very happy to meet the hon . Lady . right across the town and village I represent , people have see , as the rural police presence have decline , predictable increase in shoplifting , antisocial behaviour , farm break - in and fly - tipping . we can not allow that to be tolerate . what step will the Minister take to ensure that my local police have the resource and power they need to take those crime seriously ? the neighbourhood policing guarantee apply not just to town and city , of course , but to rural community , so we will see a far great police presence out and about in those community . the Home Office be currently work with the National Police Chiefs ' Council on a rural and wildlife crime strategy , to crack down on some of the crime and disorder that have worsen in recent year . Burglary what step she be take to support the police to tackle burglary . Burglary be a particularly invasive crime that have a profound impact on the security of individual — as I know from personal experience — as well as on the wide community . for too long a culture have be allow to develop whereby victim of burglary and other crime fear that even if they report what have happen , no one will come and nothing will be do . that be the culture we be determined to tackle through our safe street mission and our commitment to neighbourhood policing . in my local authority area , 92 % of burglary go unsolved , with police fail to identify suspect — that be the bad figure for any community in the country — and in Surrey as a whole , 63 % of burglary be not even attend by police . this have contribute to a decline in confidence in local policing among my constituent . how , specifically , will the Government ' s new police performance unit and their neighbourhood policing guarantee ensure that my constituent can feel safe in their home , and will the Minister join my party in commit to a statutory burglary response guarantee to ensure that all domestic burglary be attend by a police officer ? the police have make a commitment in England and Wales to attend the scene of every home burglary , so I be concern by what the hon . Lady have say about her local force . the College of Policing have set out good practice for the investigation of burglary , which should be follow by police force , and which set standard for what should be expect as well as explain how good to deal with victim . I be mindful of what she have say today and will write to she with detail of what more can be do . violence against Women and girl what step her Department be take to help tackle violence against woman and girl . what step her Department be take to help tackle violence against woman and girl . what step her Department be take to help tackle violence against woman and girl . this government will treat violence against woman and girl as the national emergency that it be , and later this year our new comprehensive violence against woman and girl strategy will spell out how we plan to fulfil our unprecedented commitment to halve that violence . in the interim , we have announce Raneem ' s law , whereby domestic abuse specialist will be embed in 999 control room , and we be work with police to develop a national framework to track and target high - harm offender . we be pilot new domestic abuse protection order in select area , and we have outline new measure to protect woman against stalk and spike . the entire country be appal by the terrible crime of girl be groom by gang of old man , and outrage by the lack of action take by authority to help protect those victim . it be about 10 year since these crime first come to light . since then we have have the Jay inquiry , which have make 20 recommendation . will the Government commit to implement all those recommendation , in full and at pace , to help protect future victim ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for both the tone and the sentiment of his question , and I hope that everyone in the House agree with he . I spend the weekend in my surgery deal with case that be live today involve the grooming of both boy and girl by organise group of vary sort . it be , in fact , 15 year since the original Jay report on the event in Rotherham . as for the recommendation of the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse , we will work at pace with the stakeholder , include the victim and Professor Alexis Jay , to ensure that what be intend in those recommendation can happen . I will do that as quickly as it can possibly be do , but I will not do what be do by the last Government and just say , " yeah , sure " and then leave it to chance . North Yorkshire be the large rural county in the country . behind the beauty of the village and hamlet in my constituency of Scarborough and Whitby lie an ugly truth : on average , victim in rural area be subject to domestic abuse for 25 % long than those in urban area and be half as likely to report it . can the Minister reassure the House that more funding to tackle rural domestic violence be part of the Government ' s strategy to halve violence against woman and girl ? the strategy to halve violence against woman and girl be for every single part of our country . the Government recognise that victim in rural and remote area face particular barrier in flee abuse and accessing support . we be already drive forward a range of activity that will support rural victim . the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 will require local commissioner to develop joint need assessment for victim of domestic abuse , to identify gap in support . I encourage all member to engage with that process when it come to their local area , and I will happily work with rural mp in this House to make sure that that be the case . palestinian woman detain in israeli prison face sexual assault , beating and threat of rape and death , accord to United Nations report . give our commitment to tackle violence against woman and girl , what discussion be the Minister have with Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office colleague about the implication of the gender - base violence face by Palestinians , particularly as Israel continue to deny access to detention site ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . my fcdo colleague sit on the violence against woman and girl sub - group for the mission , and I have every faith that they take the issue that he talk about incredibly seriously . we have to protect woman the world over . a consistent finding of the serious case review into child sexual exploitation be that the authority have turn a blind eye in case where they believe that a child , often as young as 13 , be in a consensual sexual relationship with an old man . of course , regardless of whether the girl believe that she have give consent or not , the adult be commit a criminal offence . do the Minister agree that one way we might stop the next child rape gang be by insist that , in all case , adult who have sex with child be investigate and prosecute ? absolutely . from my year of work on the frontline , I know that the boyfriend model of consent to get young people into these group be undoubtedly one of the most common in that field . I absolutely agree that in any case where any adult have sex with any child , they should be investigate , charge and convict . a fundamental part of our violence against woman and girl strategy be about prevention and work with young people , who be a grow cohort of both abuser and victim in this space , to ensure that we be act to prevent and not just to protect . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . when it come to keep child , especially girl , safe from violence and abuse , there have be a lot of talk about inquiry over the last week ; indeed , some comment have be more constructive than other . inquiry can be a powerful tool for uncover the truth about injustice , but they only reach their full potential when there be a duty of candour that require public official and authority to co - operate fully . the Government have commit to bring that duty into force , so can the Minister and her colleague commit to a timeline for introduce the Hillsborough law to Parliament ? the number of national public inquire that we have have — for example , into Hillsborough , for which nobody have be hold accountable — show the importance of the Hillsborough law and the duty of candour . obviously , we commit to it in our manifesto , and it will absolutely be introduce by this Government . we will keep in touch about the timeline for that . Equipment Theft when she plan to bring the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 into force . I commend the hon . Gentleman ' s work in bring forward this legislation and reiterate the Government ' s commitment to safeguard rural community . we will implement the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 , and we fully support its intention to tackle the theft and resale of high - value equipment , particularly for use in an agricultural setting . I be grateful to the Minister for his kind word and to the Government for their support for what be my private Member ' s Bill and be now the Act . the commencement date for the Act be in January last year , but it require a statutory instrument to be move to bring it into full force . when will that statutory instrument be move ? can he assure I that there be no delay because of the equipment manufacturer , who of course benefit massively from crime because they get to sell another one ? let I reassure the hon . Gentleman . as he know , the Act require secondary legislation to take effect . we be currently consider the view of those who may be affect by the legislation , but we intend that the regulation will be in place by the summer . tackle crime : Newcastle - under - Lyme what step she be take to help tackle crime in Newcastle - under - Lyme constituency . we be strengthen how we tackle crime throughout the country , include in Newcastle - under - Lyme . our safe street mission aim to halve knife crime and violence against woman and girl and to restore confidence in the criminal justice system . the Young Futures programme will divert young people from a life of crime and the neighbourhood policing guarantee will deliver an additional 13 , 000 neighbourhood policing role . can I say how excellent it be to see the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , in her place on the Front Bench ? I have hear concern from many constituent in recent day about the grooming of young people , particularly young woman , and those be concern that all of we in this House clearly share . give that only 6 . 9 % of violent or sexual crime in the west midland be solve in the year end June 2024 , what step be be take to hold the thug to account and to protect young people , particularly young woman and girl in Newcastle - under - Lyme , so that they can live their life safely ? I echo my hon . friend ' s comment about my hon . friend the Safeguarding Minister . on the point he raise , there be an interesting article in the paper today where the Minister be quote as say : " it be completely unacceptable that few and few violent and sexual crime be be solve , with more victim be let down time and time again . " I can not think of a well champion to take forward the work to protect young woman in particular than the Safeguarding Minister . there will be wizardry in the way this question from Sir Julian be deliver . thank you , Mr Speaker . do the Minister accept that it would greatly assist the police to investigate crime in Newcastle - under - Lyme , and indeed elsewhere , if they be not spend an estimate 60 , 000 hour investigate and record so - call non - crime hate incident ? the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and I , as the Policing Minister , have say that we want a common - sense approach to deal with these matter . the Government have be very clear on this . we have set out our priority as the incoming government : halve knife crime ; halve violence against woman and girl ; restore confidence in the justice system ; and — one of the big issue for I — tackle antisocial behaviour through our neighbourhood policing guarantee . Knife Crime what step her Department be take to help tackle knife crime . what step her Department be take to help tackle knife crime . we remember those who have lose their life to knife crime , include 17 - year - old Thomas Taylor , kill in Bedford , and 14 - year - old Kelyan Bokassa , kill in Woolwich just last week . Kelyan ' s mother say : " I try to prevent it . I ' ve try so many , so many time . " no mother should live with that grief or feel that level of fear for her teenage son . that be why this Government have set up the coalition to tackle knife crime , which involve family , alongside take new action on serious violence . I thank my right hon . friend for that answer , and of course my sympathy also go out to that mother this weekend . recently publish datum show a sharp rise in serious violent crime in Scotland , particularly in our city and town . too many of my constituent feel unsafe in East Kilbride town centre and the Village , particularly at night . meanwhile , the SNP Government ' s chronic underfunding of Police Scotland have result in officer number be at their low level since 2008 . do the Secretary of State agree that the SNP now have the funding in place to increase police number , and that protect our community and citizen should be its priority ? my hon . friend be right to say that the Scottish Government have a significant increase in funding , so they can take action to improve public service . this Government have make it a mission to halve knife crime over the next decade , include take action to get dangerous weapon , such as zombie knife and ninja sword , off our street by prevent the unlawful sale of these lethal blade , particularly to child . my constituent in Whitley have their Christmas disrupt by an alarming threat of knife crime . we have see too many tragedy of this kind in read over the last few year , so I wholeheartedly welcome the Government ' s mission to halve knife crime . I have apply for my Earley and Woodley constituency to be a trial location for the new respect order . will the Home Secretary meet I and my constituent to discuss how we can tackle the root problem that cause people , particularly young people , to carry knife ? the Policing Minister and I will happily talk far to my hon . friend . she be right that we need to prevent young people from obtain and carry knife in the first place , as well as make sure there be swift intervention . we be also take action , work with police force across the country , to tackle knife - enable robbery , which be one of the area that have see the big increase in recent year . I thank the Home Secretary for her response . over the past five year , there have be 900 conviction for knife - relate crime in Northern Ireland . there be an epidemic in Northern Ireland , with almost 200 conviction in the last year alone . what discussion have the Home Secretary have with the relevant authority , include the Police Service of Northern Ireland , to help we address this issue ? the hon . Member will know that the psni take this issue extremely seriously . the issue of knife crime be devastating to family , and he be right to be deeply concerned about the increase we have see . frankly , it be still far too easy for young people to get hold of knife . that be why we ask Commander Stephen Clayman to conduct a detailed review of the online sale and delivery of knife , and we expect his report back shortly . a nurse be stab in an emergency department in Oldham over the weekend . will the Home Secretary join I in condemn any attack on our health and social care worker , and especially the one at the weekend ? the hon . Member make an extremely important point . our public servant , particularly our nursing and medical staff , work to save life , support people and help patient . they do so trust that the people who come to see they be ask for their help . he be right to talk about the devastating attack at the Oldham hospital , and we be all think about the nurse and all those work in the hospital , as well as about the police investigation that I know be under way . Antisocial Behaviour what step her Department be take to help tackle antisocial behaviour . what recent progress her Department have make on improve neighbourhood police to tackle antisocial behaviour . the Government be commit to tackle antisocial behaviour and the harm and misery that we all know it cause in community . this be part of our safe street mission that will introduce respect order and put 13 , 000 additional police officer , pcso and special constable into neighbourhood policing role so that each community have a visible presence and an accountable police team . last year , on average , at least three instance of antisocial behaviour per day be report to Kent police in the city centre of Canterbury alone . we have great beat officer who I know keep our city as safe as they can , but give that the economy of our historic UNESCO city rely so heavily on tourism , how will the Government work with Kent police to far tackle this issue so that resident , business and visitor feel safe ? the hon . Lady make an important point about how antisocial behaviour have to be tackle , particularly in area where we have lot of tourist . the neighbourhood policing guarantee be important because it will deliver an additional 13 , 000 police officer , pcso and special in our town and city centre and in rural area by the end of this Parliament . in the provisional policing settlement , announce just before Christmas , there be £ 100 million to start the recruitment of the 13 , 000 police officer . how will the Minister ensure that the safe street mission be deliver in community like mine in Southwark , where too often officer be extract to police protest and the Met be divide between its neighbourhood and national policing role ? my hon . friend make an important point about the conflict and compete interest in the Metropolitan police . we have commit to put police back on the beat through the neighbourhood policing guarantee . a neighbourhood police team will be in every area . it will be out police , with intelligence - lead , visible patrol , and will ensure officer be protect from be deploy elsewhere . that be part of the guarantee . Asylum Hotels what progress her Department have make on close asylum hotel . the Government be commit to reduce hotel use through reform of the asylum system , include through streamline asylum processing and establish the Border Security Command to tackle people smuggle gang at source . since the general election , there have be a net increase of six hotel in use , but nine be schedule for closure by the end of March . the Government ' s new policy of smash the gang have enable they to close seven asylum hotel , but unfortunately they have have to open another 14 . will the Minister tell we when the number of asylum seeker in hotel accommodation will be low than when she take office ? because of the size of the backlog we inherit from the Conservative party and an asylum system in chaos , with ten of thousand of people in limbo and very little processing happen , the problem can not be solve overnight . however , we be work very hard to close hotel . I just give the hon . Gentleman the figure : nine more hotel be schedule to close by the end of March , and there have be a net increase of six , so by the end March there will be few . the previous Government waste a scandalous amount of public money on asylum accommodation . for example , in Northeye , they pay double what the previous owner have pay , without check that the building do not have asbestos and contaminate ground , and it could not be use . will the Minister commit to be more effective in provide value for public money , to ensure that taxpayer ' money be not waste as we fix the asylum backlog ? I certainly will . we should also remember the £ 60 million the conservative party waste on RAF Scampton and the £ 15 million on a derelict , asbestos - ride former prison in Bexhill . we will not take any lesson from Conservative Members about value for money in Government expenditure . in the royal town of Sutton Coldfield , we understand that we must do our bit to help house asylum seeker , but the Ramada hotel on Penns Lane have always be the wrong place because it be too far away from inner - city Birmingham - base service . under the last government , the facility be slate for closure , so will the Minister look urgently at wind it down and close it as soon as possible ? it be our intention to close all asylum hotel as soon as possible , once we deal with the backlog that we inherit from the conservative party . asylum accommodation hotel be once emergency measure but have now last several year because of the mess the Tories make of our asylum system . scrap the Rwanda scheme and recommence the processing of claim have lead to a substantially low backlog than we would have have if we have continue with the Tory policy , but there be still much more to do . will the Minister update the House on progress towards end asylum hotel accommodation and cut waiting time for asylum application decision ? we inherit a system where very few decision be be make . we have ramp up decision make to over 11 , 000 decision a month and we be deal with the backlog , but backlog can not be abolish overnight , and there be also appeal backlog . we inherit a huge mess , but we be methodically get through it . I call the shadow Minister . housing asylum seeker in hotel — of which there be 6 , 000 more case in just the first three month of this government — be spectacularly expensive . the Home Secretary ' s policy be to make asylum decision quickly , so that any cost of the migrant she accept can be hide in the welfare system . the Home Office admit in its impact assessment that it have no idea how much her policy will cost in benefit claim and council housing bill . will the Minister commit today to record and publish all those cost for migrant whose asylum claim she accept ? I will take no lesson from the conservative party , which spend £ 700 million to send four volunteer to Rwanda and leave huge backlog of more than 90 , 000 stop asylum claim — people in hotel , unable to leave because the Conservatives be try to get their fantasy Rwanda programme off the ground . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . my constituent Majida and her three child be asylum seeker from Syria , live in one of the two asylum hotel in my Hazel Grove constituency . they have be live in limbo for nine month as they wait for a decision on their asylum claim . like all syrian asylum seeker , their application have be temporarily pause follow the fall of Assad . many in my community be keen to support those seek asylum , but also very keen to see an end to the use of hotel . the cost of housing family in that way be too high , both to the mental wellbeing of those live there and to the taxpayer . what circumstance be the Minister wait for to resume decision making on asylum application from Syrians , and when do she expect that to happen ? the fall of the Assad regime be a welcome development , give that he be a tyrant , but 5 , 500 syrian asylum seeker be currently in our system , many of whom flee the Assad regime . until Syria ' s future become a little more settled , it be difficult to decide those claim , which be why both this country and most of Europe have have a temporary pause while the situation in Syria settle and develop . I can not tell the hon . Lady exactly when decision making will resume . all I can say be that we be keep the matter under close observation . as soon as there be any development in this area , we will ensure that the House know about it . windrush : Victim Support what step her Department be take to support victim of the Windrush scandal . this Labour Government be determined to put right the appalling injustice suffer by member of the Windrush community . we will ensure that those affect receive the compensation they deserve , and that cultural change be embed permanently in the Home Office . at the end of November 2024 , over £ 100 million have be pay to individual across almost 3 , 000 claim under the Windrush compensation scheme . we have also re - establish the Windrush unit to drive forward the action need to ensure that what happen to the Windrush generation never happen again . member of the Windrush generation who struggle to submit compensation claim do not have access to legal aid , leave they unable to navigate the complex process . I have recently be contact by a constituent who be struggle to navigate the claim process , and have no other support available to he . what step be the Minister take to tackle those barrier , and will she commit to provide additional support to ensure that every eligible individual can access the scheme , regardless of their capacity or circumstance ? my hon . friend make an important point . we be committed to make change so that the scheme be accessible and so victim of the Windrush scandal be far well support in apply for compensation . it be why , in July , we bring in a single name caseworker approach to streamline the process , improve consistency and remove duplication , and it be why we announce £ 1 . 5 million of grant funding for organisation to provide extra support for applicant . if she would like to meet to discuss her constituent ' s case far , I would be happy to do so . the Windrush scandal involve people come to this country in good faith who be then falsely label as illegal immigrant . one thing that the Minister could do to avoid such circumstance happen again be make it easy for people to come here through a reduction in the english language requirement . be that something that she would consider ? our priority be to understand and learn from the event in the past and focus on the future by ensure that the Department be inclusive and consider the impact of all its work on people from every background . Migration Levels : Indefinite leave to remain what estimate her Department have make of the potential impact of level of net migration on future trend in the number of people who will be grant indefinite leave to remain . the Government be commit to bring down net migration after it hit record high under the last government . we will do that by take a different approach , link skill and migration policy so that immigration be not use as an alternative to tackle workforce problem in the UK . the Home Office publish migrant journey analysis , which show the proportion of migrant grant indefinite leave to remain over time , help to inform on who might seek to remain in the UK in the long term . the mass import of low - skilled worker could cost the taxpayer more than £ 61 billion — a financial tick time bomb . will the Minister commit here and now to extend the qualifying period for indefinite leave to remain or bring in new qualifying criterion ? the hon . Gentleman would do well to hold his own side to account for their record on net migration . the Government recognise and value the contribution that legal migration make to our country . there be always a place for overseas recruitment for firm look to grow , but it must not be the first port of call , and we must ensure that our migration system be control , manage and fair . I call the shadow Home Secretary . since the Government come to office , 23 , 000 illegal migrant have cross the english channel — an increase of 29 % compare with the same time last year . do the Government now accept the National Crime Agency ' s advice that a deterrent like the Rwanda scheme , which they cancel before it even start , be need ? last week , the Government be trumpet their removal figure . will they honestly accept that only a tiny fraction of removal relate to people who arrive by small boat ? in fact , in their first three month , the removal amount to only 5 % of people who enter the UK by small boat . will the Minister accept that allow 95 % of small boat arrival to stay be no deterrent at all ? the shadow Home Secretary appear to have forget what happen when he be in Government . in fact , he will know that for the first six month of last year the number of those arrive on small boat be the high for any six month on record . he will know that the previous Government spend over £ 700 million on a fail Rwanda scheme that see four volunteer go to Rwanda . I will not take any lesson from the shadow Home Secretary . the Conservatives should take responsibility for their record and apologise for it . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . immigration asylum rule need to be respect and enforce , and for too long that have not happen . since the general election , we have ramp up removal for those who have no right to be in the United Kingdom , with 16 , 400 individual successfully return in the first six month of this Government — the high level of return over a six - month period since 2018 . wide work to strengthen border security be under way , include the new sanction regime announce by the Foreign Secretary to target smuggling gang and new co - operation agreement , include with France , Germany , Italy , Iraq and beyond . because vile criminal smuggler gang operate across border , law enforcement need to co - operate across border , too , to bring they down . Knife crime continue to have a devastating impact on all too many life in Sheffield . I recently chair a roundtable in my constituency , which bring together local leader , police , school and voluntary organisation that be all on the frontline . do the Secretary of State agree that it be vital to work together with key stakeholder so that we can build a collaborative approach to end knife crime once and for all ? I agree with my hon . friend . that be why we have set up the coalition to tackle knife crime . it be also why we have a knife - enable robbery taskforce work with chief constable . at local level , we have discuss set out prevention partnership — part of the Young Futures programme — so that all organisation can come together and be part of a mission to halve knife crime over the next 10 year . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I know that the thought of the whole House will be with the victim of the grooming and rape gang . will the Home Secretary agree with the Labour Mayor of Greater Manchester Andy Burnham and the hon . member for Liverpool Walton ( Dan Carden ) — a Labour MP — that we need a proper national public inquiry ? the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse report touch only on groom gang and cover only six of the town affect . local inquiry such as the Manchester one that the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister refer to do not have the legal power to compel the production of evidence , which be why the Manchester chair resign . one Oldham victim , Jane , who be groom and gang - rape at the age of 12 , have call for a full national inquiry — Order . Mr Philp , this be topical . you could have get this in early with a lengthy question . the first part of your question be absolutely accurate , but you can not just roll on at topical or nobody else will get in . these be horrendous crime involve rape , sadistic violence and cruelty , exploitation , intimidation and coercion , so we need action , truth and accountability for those terrible crime . that be why we support further investigation , inquiry and action into child sexual exploitation and grooming gang , include new action to get police report evidence on the scale of groom gang , include on ethnicity , which have still not be do . the most important thing be to get more police investigation to get these criminal behind bar . do the Home Secretary agree that it be untenable for the Government ' s own anti - corruption Minister to be under investigation for benefit from the proceed of corruption ? should she stand down while the investigation continue ? the right hon . Member will know that the Minister have refer herself to the ministerial standard adviser , and that be the appropriate way for this to be address . more broadly , we take seriously the full range of crime that our country face and will continue to work closely with the police always to take action against crime . with a rise in disinformation and intimidation at home and interference from abroad , it have never be more important to stand up for our british democracy . will the Minister therefore give we an update on the defend democracy taskforce ? it be a top priority to protect our country and our elect representative from interference , intimidation and harassment . the defend democracy taskforce bring together a cross - Government response to these threat . we will use all the tool at our disposal to protect our democratic security and resilience . last week , the Scottish Parliament pass a motion call for action on immigration to address the need of Scotland ' s employer , community and public service , with a particular reference to rural visa pilot . as the Secretary of State know , every sector in Scotland be cry out for scottish solution to distinct scottish issue and problem . what be her response to that democratically pass motion other than not be interested ? I will shortly be visit Scotland to discuss these issue . the hon . Member will know that we will not be introduce a scottish visa scheme or devolving control of immigration policy . he will also know that the Migration Advisory Committee have find that labour market need be similar across the UK . it continue to engage at length with many UK stakeholder , include from Scotland . the brilliant Adur Ukraine Support Association have raise concern with I that the 18 - month limit on the extension of Ukrainians ' permission to remain in the UK be cause issue in secure tenancy , job and undergraduate university course , which last for a minimum of three year . will the Minister meet I to discuss that issue face Ukrainians in my constituency ? the UK ' s support for Ukraine remain steadfast . the scheme will provide an additional 18 month ' temporary permission to Ukrainians here under one of the exist Ukraine scheme . when a person ' s Ukraine scheme leave expire during their course and they be grant further leave to remain — for example , on a student visa — they will continue to be able to complete their study . I will be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that far . dorset police operate across more than 1 , 000 square mile , yet under the current funding settlement it receive far less money than urban area with similar crime rate operate over small geography . will the Government commit to review the funding settlement to ensure that rural area such as West Dorset get a fairer settlement ? of course , the hon . Gentleman ' s force area be get more money in the settlement that be announce just before Christmas . clearly , we keep all formula under consideration and , as the hon . Gentleman know , we be go to go through a police reform package and programme . Finance will be part of that . under the last government , my constituent have completely lose faith that foreign national offender with no right to remain in this country would be swiftly remove . I be glad that , since the last election , our new Labour Government have enforce the return of over 2 , 500 foreign criminal , include serious and violent offender — a 23 % increase since last year . can the Minister reassure my constituent that this Government will not be take their foot off the gas and will continue take strong action ? yes . foreign national who commit offence and be sentence to 12 month in prison have no right to be here , and I can assure my hon . friend that we will work tirelessly to ensure that they can be remove . the 23 % increase in six month be a good start , but we will not take our foot off the gas . in my Oxfordshire constituency , resident be concern about increase antisocial behaviour , particularly pickpockete and shoplift in our town . give that the last Conservative Government cut the number of police community support officer in the Thames valley area by more than half since 2015 , what step will the Minister be take to ensure that the police be able to improve community police in Oxfordshire town such as Wallingford , Wantage and Didcot ? we want to see an increase in neighbourhood police right across the country . that be why we set out £ 100 million as part of the police settlement for next year to kick - start and increase recruitment of neighbourhood police officer and pcso , alongside strong power to tackle neighbourhood crime . I welcome the Government ' s plan to tackle youth violence , but also to prioritise early intervention . in Battersea , brilliant organisation such as Carney ' s Community be deliver target service to young people — from mentor and life skill , to boxing and fitness . do the Minister agree that organisation such as Carney ' s need our support ? will she agree to visit it so that she can hear at first hand about its approach to tackle youth violence ? I would be delighted to visit . do the Secretary of State believe it be fair that undocumented illegal migrant get priority access to the NHS over british taxpayer ? they do not . since October 2023 , my constituent have be separate from her husband and the father of her child , who be a palestinian citizen of the state of Israel . I have deep concern about the Home Office ' s handling of this case , and it have not reply to my last two representation . will the Minister agree to look into this case ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that case , and I be very happy to meet he to discuss the issue he have raise . penselwood in Glastonbury and Somerton be regularly blight by unlicensed music event , leave resident feel frightened and vulnerable , as organiser pay scant regard to they or to the police . how will the Minister support the police to give the public confidence that they will crack down on these illegal rave ? if the hon . Lady write to I with detail , I will certainly look into that issue . recently , the owner of social medium site x have use his sizeable platform to undermine the democratic result of last July ' s general election ; have stir up hatred towards my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , put her safety at risk ; and have seek mechanism to depose the Prime Minister . can the Minister say what action the Defending Democracy Taskforce be take to prevent this kind of foreign interference in british politic ? I thank my hon . friend for that important question . the Government consider this work to be urgent . we have see some utterly unacceptable activity , both during and beyond the general election . I hope that work to address this issue will be a share endeavour right across the House , but the Government be work at pace to address it . what action will the Home Secretary be take follow the news that eight UK company and organisation have be deem terror group by the United Arab Emirates ? the UAE be an important international partner for the UK , but of course other country have their own rule on designation and it would not be appropriate for the Government to comment on their process . I can say to the hon . member that extremism have no place in our society and that we work very closely with law enforcement , local community and our international partner to tackle group and any individual who seek to sow division and hatred . my deep condolence go to the family and friend of 17 - year - old Thomas Taylor , who be fatally stab in Bedford last week . Bedfordshire have some of the high knife crime rate in the country . while I welcome the increase funding for the force and the progress make on tackle knife crime in the region , will the Secretary of State ensure that the special grant award to Bedfordshire police in recognition of the high level of serious and violent crime in the region be maintain ? will she outline what further step be be take to deter young people from carry lethal weapon ? I think the thought of all of we will be with the family and friend of Thomas Taylor , who be a constituent of my hon . friend . he be right to say that we need comprehensive work to prevent knife crime and to prevent young people from carry knife in the first place , but also to make sure that there be swift action where crime take place . the National Crime Agency estimate that £ 100 billion of illicit fund flow through the UK yearly . despite the existence of the David Cameron - create unexplained wealth order , only 11 order in total have ever be issue , relate to four or five case . what be my right hon . friend do to stop these order from become pointless , as they be under the Tories , because we can not afford to use they ? among many other thing , the Government have appoint Baroness Hodge as the Government ' s anti - corruption champion . we will be work very closely with she and other ministerial colleague to address the issue that my hon . friend have raise . can the Home Secretary confirm that none of her Ministers or official engage with or be in touch with the Muslim Council of Britain , and that there be no correspondence between no . 10 , the Home Office and other Departments about restore tie with the organisation ? yes , we can confirm that that be the case . several of my constituent in South Oxhey have unfortunately be the victim of burglary or attempt burglary . will the Home Secretary outline the measure her Department be take to allow the police to invest in technology such as live facial recognition , which can make crime such as burglary easy to solve ? we be currently look into whether there be a need for more regulation of live facial recognition , but I recognise that it be a very important tool to which the police should have access . I be have a series of stakeholder meeting with various group to discuss how we take this forward , but I do recognise how important the technology be and how it can be a really positive way of identify people and solve crime . can I place on the record my thank to the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , who I know will ensure that this government do more to tackle violence against woman and girl than any other Government ? in do so , will the Government amend the strategy to consider prostitution and other form of commercial sexual exploitation as violence against woman and girl ? I thank my hon . friend for her kind comment about I . the violence against woman and girl strategy that the Government will launch later this year will absolutely root adult sexual exploitation , which so often actually stem from childhood sexual exploitation , into the Government ' s violence against woman and girl strategy — for the first time ever . be the Home Secretary aware of the grow link , as highlight by a recent Durham University report , between rural crime and serious organise crime ? if not , could she ask her official to bring it to her attention ? give the transnational element to this serious organise crime , could the National Crime Agency start to take a close look at rural crime ? I be aware of this , and I think there be a very serious issue about how serious and organised crime have increasingly be target rural area and thing such as the gps equipment use by farmer . the point about those involve in serious and organised crime be that they will always target area where they think they can get away with it . that be why the issue be partly about the work of the National Crime Agency , but also about the work of police force across the country and the work we need to do to take forward a rural crime strategy with the National Police Chiefs ' Council . Gas Storage Levels ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero if he will make a statement on gas storage level . energy security be a key priority for this Government , and at no time be there any concern about Britain ' s energy system be able to meet demand . our system work entirely as intend . we have capacity to deal with market constraint , and that have be back up by the two authoritative voice on this issue in the country — National Gas , which run the gas network , and the National Energy System Operator . we have sufficient gas supply and electricity capacity to meet demand this winter , due to our diverse and resilient system . while storage be an important flexibility tool in the gas system , our varied source of gas supply mean that the UK be less reliant on storage than some other european country that have a more limited supply option . our diverse option include the UK continental shelf , our long - term energy partner Norway , international market via the second large liquefy natural gas onshoring capacity in Europe , and two interconnector . gas storage be use throughout the year , but typically operate in winter to help meet peak in demand . through colder spell , storage level be expect to fluctuate across the winter period . that be what happen last week follow the severe cold weather , and it be a sign that the gas and storage market be work exactly as they should . that be precisely why we have those system in place . in their winter outlook , National Gas and the National Energy System Operator assess that there be sufficient supply to meet winter demand , include the role of storage . on Friday , National Gas , the owner and operator of Britain ' s gas network , confirm that " the overall picture across Great Britain ' s eight gas storage site remain healthy . " we will continue to work closely with National Gas , NESO and storage operator to maintain continued security of supply . I reiterate : Britain ' s energy system be work to continue to meet the demand of consumer across the country . all our constituent will be aware of the freeze temperature experience across the United Kingdom last week , dip to minus 18 ° in the north of Scotland . however , many will not be aware of just how close this country come to an energy shortage , blackout , or demand control — close than at any point in the past 15 year . on Friday Centrica , the owner of British Gas , issue a stark warning that freeze weather and a spike in demand have reduce our gas storage to " concerningly low " level — 26 % low than this time last year . at a time when temperature drop below freezing for an extended period of time , our store be set to last for less than a week . early in the week the National Energy System Operator issue a call for electricity provider to step in to provide extra electricity to meet demand and limit the risk of blackout , pay 10 time the average daily amount to keep the light on , all of which will end up on the energy bill of our constituent . with an incredibly tight margin between demand and available power generation , we be once again force to rely on reliable gas power plant to keep the light on in this country , show that gas be and will be a vital component of our energy security for decade to come . with their rush to meet the Secretary of State ' s ideological target to decarbonise the entire electricity grid by 2030 , this Government be play fast and loose with our ability to keep the light on . they be rush headlong into a renewable energy dominate system — a chinese renewable energy dominate system — but minister can not escape the fact that when the wind do not blow and the sun do not shine , wind turbine and solar panel will not keep the light on in Britain . we should be in no doubt that this Government ' s ideological plan for our energy supply will leave the UK dependent on foreign import , send bill soar , and leave we teeter on the brink of blackout . interestingly , when Labour be last in government in 2010 , the Secretary of State whip his then minister to vote against conservative proposal to increase gas storage capacity in the United Kingdom , with a Labour MP on the Energy Bill Committee say that " the climate of this country , other than in the past month , be usually such that we do not quite need the same storage facility as other country in mainland Europe ? " – – [ Official Report , Energy Public Bill Committee , 19 January 2010 ; c . 282 . ] do the Minister think the Secretary of State regret not back that proposal in 2010 ? do he accept that the push towards renewable will lead to high level of intermittency , and do he accept that we will need to urgently review our gas storage capacity in the immediate future ? the shadow Minister ' s point would be well make be it not for the fact that it be completely untrue . if we look at the fact , the capacity market notice that he mention be cancel — order . the Minister have make a direct hint that what the Member say be untrue . be he sure of that , or do he want to rephrase it ? I apologise , Mr Speaker ; I think the shadow Minister be confuse in the fact that he give to Parliament today . I be happy to set that right . let we look at the fact . the National Energy System Operator — the people who run the system — state clearly : " at no point be electricity supply less than anticipated demand and our engineer be able to rebalance the system without the need to consider any emergency measure . " if we listen to the expert — to National Gas and to NESO — they both confirm over the weekend that there be resilience in the system . I reiterate the point that the system operate exactly as it be intend to do . if the shadow Minister have complaint about how the system operate in the country and the gas storage situation , he may want to look at some of his colleague who be in power over the past 14 year . he know the truth about his party ' s record . he be a very smart guy , and he know they leave we expose . he know they do not do enough to build the system that we need and he know what cause the bad cost of live crisis in live memory . while his party be busy crowdsource policy advice on Twitter from net zero sceptic , it would be far well if they look at their own record in government and , instead of criticise we , recognise that we be get on with build a resilient energy system for the future . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . the shadow Minister miss from his story the role of Liz Truss . when she be the Chief Secretary to the Treasury in 2017 , she make the decision to close our gas storage facility . do the Minister agree that if we want energy security and low price , that all depend on reduce our reliance on the volatile nature of the international fossil fuel market ? do that not mean that his clean power action plan for 2030 be exactly the right policy to address the event of the past few day ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the decision that the previous Government take on storage be for they to answer , and anyone who look at their record will rightly raise question about that . on the broad point , he be right . the only plan for how we can get off the volatile fossil fuel market , to which the previous Government leave we far too exposed , be the clean power action plan that we have announce . if the Tories oppose that , they need to come up with their alternative to deliver the resilience in the system that we be fight for every single day . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) be right to raise this important question about energy security . gas supply be run low because of the unexpected cold snap over the past two week . while those who can afford it have continue to use gas , the energy crisis have leave energy price skyrocket and energy bill spiral , with many have to make the decision between put food on the table or stay warm . that be the case for too many family in my constituency of South Cambridgeshire . the shadow Minister accuse the Government of play fast and loose , but it be due to the decision of the last Conservative Government that we find ourselves in this mess , with their reckless dither and delay over insulation and decarbonise our home and the irresponsible decision around our gas storage capacity . this be about overreliance on gas . for too long — order . you be over time , so I be sure you be come to the end . I be . what step be the Government take to reduce overreliance on gas by bring in an emergency home upgrade scheme that will enable people to insulate and to keep their home warm with heat pump this winter , rather than wait until spring ? I think the Minister have get the point . the hon . Lady be right ; this be an incredibly important issue that get to the heart of the fact we inherit from the previous Government not just an economic mess but a series of policy decision not make , and an energy system that need we to take serious decision quickly to build resilience for the future . on the broad point about consumer , she will know that my hon . friend the Minister for consumer be do a lot of work on exactly what the warm home scheme will look like , to ensure that people have as warm a home as possible . she be right that at time such as this , the people in the poor household struggle the most . we be do what we can to ensure that home be insulate and , in the long term , to bring down bill . the only way to do that be to deliver clean power by 2030 — fast than the previous Government would ever have manage . the shadow Minister come to the House with no shame . as have be refer to by my hon . friend the Member for Sefton Central ( Bill Esterson ) , the shadow Minister ' s party close Rough in 2017 , leave we expose . I commend the Minister on take urgent step through our clean power mission to secure our energy system , and I urge he to ignore the political distraction of the conservative party . my hon . friend be right that this Government be move as fast as possible to build a more resilient system to get the country off the rollercoaster of volatile fossil fuel market . the Conservatives seem to oppose that , but they have be on something of a journey in all these question : they use to champion net zero and recognise that climate change be a clear and present danger to the world , but now they be drift far away from that , look for more extremist view on Twitter and elsewhere to crowdsource their policy . we be get on with build the energy system to bring down bill , deliver energy security and , yes , to deliver climate leadership . the National Electricity System Operator issue a warning of a 1 , 700 MW shortfall at the evening peak . it revise that down to barely more than 1 , 200 , and it be run at one point with only 580 mw of margin . how be the Government so complacent about this ? it be astonishing . as someone who have follow the energy debate for the past 30 year or so , I warn the Minister that this be almost unprecedented . for he to say that everything be absolutely fine be incredibly irresponsible , when his own Government ' s policy be contribute to the tightness of the generate margin . if the light go out , will he resign ? that be the kind of extremist scaremongering that we have come to expect from the shadow Secretary of State on Twitter , but we be now hear it in the House . it be thoroughly irresponsible to use such language . in my answer , I read the very clear view of the National Energy System Operator , which run the system and be the expert . I repeat it for the benefit of the House : " at no point be electricity supply less than anticipated demand and our engineer be able to rebalance the system without the need to consider emergency measure . " the shadow Minister and Back - Bench mps can repeat the phrasing around blackout all they like , but at no point be that a concern . the reality be that while the Conservatives be happy to throw around such phrase without any evidence , we be build the resilient system of the future , and we will get on with do that . in government , the Conservatives see the closure of Rough and reduced gas storage . in opposition , they oppose our proposal for clean power , and would see this country more reliant on volatile gas market and high energy price . be it not the truth that the Conservatives want we more reliant on gas , with high bill and more likelihood of blackout , because they oppose our plan for clean power and tackle runaway and accelerate climate change ? the decision on whether to run gas storage site be a commercial one for Centrica . the storage site at Rough be close between 2017 and 2022 — hon . member may remember that that be when the " beast from the east " be attack the country . the previous Government will have to answer for the decision that they make on that . we be make it clear that the only way to build the energy system that we need in the long term be the clean power action plan . the Conservatives use to support much of that but , increasingly , they have decide to walk away from it . they will either keep we attach to the volatile fossil fuel market , with all the price spike that our constituent continue to pay the price of , or they will have to come up with an alternative plan . we be get on with do the work . can I encourage the Minister to come out of combat mode for a second and consider a constructive proposal ? if we be not to become re - dependent on gas when the wind do not blow and the sun do not shine , and we do not want to be dependent on foreign country indefinitely , can he see a future role for modular nuclear reactor ? if I be in any kind of attack mode , it be because the opposition do not seem to be deal with reality , and I think it be important to correct that . the right hon . Gentleman be right that the future energy mix , as we outline in the clean power action plan , will involve a range of technology . we outline the range we would expect for each of those , and nuclear — in particular small modular reactor — will play an incredibly important part in that . we be move forward with the programme we inherit from the previous Government , which be yet another incomplete process . we will make it happen as quickly as possible , and smr will play a key role in our energy mix . follow on from a previous question , clearly , the previous Government do delay invest in and start up more nuclear power opportunity and option . what progress have be make since this government come into power on plan to take forward nuclear power as part of our supply ? when ? conservative Members ask , " when ? " — they have 14 year in power , and in 14 year do not build a single new nuclear project . the former Minister for nuclear , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , love to shout about all the consultation that he launch , but he do not build a single new nuclear power station . my hon . friend be right to make the point that we should move forward with nuclear — we want to see nuclear project move forward as quickly as possible . my hon . friend the Minister for nuclear be move forward with two of the big project , as well as the small modular reactor competition . we be quite rightly go through a process to ensure that it be as robust as possible , but we will have more to say in due course . last Friday , I meet Wales & West Utilities , which run the gas grid in my constituency and beyond , where I hear that hydrogen be still a very viable option for home heating . although there have be a number of pilot , the Government have recently go quite quiet on hydrogen in home heating . will the Minister update we on the step he be take to progress hydrogen for home heating ? the hon . Lady raise the potential of hydrogen in our energy mix . of course , one of the real strength of the gas network be that it can be change into other thing in the future ; that be a real strength of what we have , and we be look at what those option might be . there be a mix of option available with hydrogen , include home heating , but it could still play a really key role in industrial project , for example , in the short term . we be look at those project . we need to ensure that it be financially viable and that we have work out all the technological detail on how we would make it happen . we will have more to say on that in due course . my understanding be that these notice be issue at time of high demand , and that they be evidence of the system work in order to prevent power cut or the system break down . I would have think the Conservatives would have learn their lesson from the spike in international gas price that cause the crisis in people ' s fuel bill and lead to a cost of living crisis , but they have learn nothing from that . do my hon . friend the Minister agree that this really underline our policy of ensure that we have a secure provision of renewable energy , which leave we less open to spike in price on the international market ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be worth say that electricity margin notice be not unexpected , particularly at this time of year . they mean that there be enough generation available to meet demand , but that NESO would like to see a large safety cushion ; that be the important point for people to understand what margin notice be about . the notice be cancel , of course , because there be sufficient supply to ensure that cushion . my hon . friend ' s broad point be important . we have outline in great detail how we will deliver clean power by 2030 . the conservative now claim to oppose that ; in fact , they oppose much of net zero full stop . they will have to answer how they would deliver a secure and resilient energy system of the future that bring down bill and deliver on climate leadership . I be unconvinced , to use parliamentary language , by the Minister ' s reassurance that the light do not almost go out last week . I be also unconvinced by his say that the system be robust and resilient . this be the Minister who tell elector in Scotland that energy bill would come down by £ 300 under this government . they have go up , and will go up twice more . give the perilous gas storage situation — it be at 1 % , compare to the 25 % the EU enjoy — what step will he take to de - stress the system by accelerate investment in long - duration energy storage ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his characteristic question . on the first point , let I just say that it be not I who say anything about what the margin be . I quote the National Energy System Operator , which actually deliver in this country — and will quote it again for the benefit of the hon . gentleman : " at no point be electricity supply less than anticipated demand and our engineer be able to rebalance the system " . he can take or leave my word — I be not particularly bother — but those be the word of the people who actually operate the energy system . on the hon . Gentleman ' s final point , I absolutely agree with he on the importance of long - duration energy storage . that be why , for the first time in 40 year , this Government announce a new cap - and - floor regime to deliver new long - duration energy storage scheme . that be a huge step forward from the position under many previous government , and it will allow the building of the pumped hydro scheme and new innovative technology that will deliver that energy storage . we be move as fast as possible . I hope that he and his hon . friend will support those decision . I thank the Minister for update and reassure the House and resident on the robustness of the system , and for his work take forward a wide diversification of energy supply . will he update the House on support for the take - up of heat pump , to ensure that , in the long run , we be far less dependent on gas from overseas ? will he also say something about the importance of insulation and what the Government be do to support further measure to encourage insulation ? my hon . friend be right that as well as build an energy system that will deliver generation capacity for the future , we need to work as fast as possible to reduce demand . part of that be about move away from gas to heat pump . that be important not just for our energy system and climate , but for individual household in reduce their bill . we already see a huge shift in the uptake of heat pump across the country . there be , of course , much more to do on that if we be to reach our target , but the Government be commit to that , and it be important for household right across the country . I echo his point on insulation . those in fuel poverty be more likely to live in house that be cold . the more we can do to create warm home — that be what the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) , be do — the well for everyone . last week be the cold week of the winter . also last week , 41 . 9 % of our energy mix be gas and just about 25 % be wind . we have hear about issue with gas storage , and the Government be penalise the oil and gas sector by extend the windfall tax , not allow new licence , and remove investment allowance . it feel like this Government be not take our energy security seriously . can the Minister reassure the House that that be not the case , and that he will engage with our oil and gas company to ensure that we be secure in our energy today , despite what they be try to do for the future ? I can give that assurance . indeed , every month I have be in this job , I have be in Aberdeen , meet oil and gas company to discuss the issue . we be not go to agree on everything , but I have be very clear that there will be a long future for oil and gas in the North sea . yes , we absolutely have say that we do not want to issue any new licence for new field , but we will not revoke any exist licence . that mean that there will continue to be work in the North sea for a long time to come . I repeat that it be categorically untrue that our electricity or gas supply have be at risk over the past week . we have robust system in place , and they work exactly as they should . consumer lose absolutely no supply over the last few day , nor will they in the week and month ahead . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests about my membership of the energy union , GMB and Unite . in 2017 , the then energy Minister , the noble Lord Harrington , say : " the closure of Rough will not cause a problem with security . " — [ Official Report , 27 June 2017 ; Vol . 626 , c . 446 . ] will the Minister confirm that the five waste year that follow before Rough be reopen at reduce capacity continue to impose restraint on the network ? will the Government take an open - minded approach to Centrica ' s proposal to gradually convert that storage capacity to hydrogen ? these be commercial decision for Centrica , although if it bring those decision to we , we will of course look at they . let I reiterate that the UK have a robust set of storage facility to ensure security of supply . rough be one of they , but at moment such as this , in the winter , it be not the most important , because it be the slow to move gas into the system . the remainder be in an entirely robust state and will continue to deliver , but as I have say , what it choose to do with its site be a commercial matter for Centrica . we have hear in the House today about an over - reliance on gas , but surely , in reality , it be an over - reliance on import gas . the force of this Government seem to be drive we into the hand of foreign supplier , and as much as 80 % of our gas may be import by 2030 . should we not support domestic source of oil and gas , and back the 200 , 000 industry job find in constituency across the land , rather than push those people off a cliff ? I take issue with two of those point . first , in the past decade , 100 , 000 job have already be lose from the oil and gas industry , and that happen under a government whom the hon . Gentleman support . the industry be change . we be put in place a robust set of plan to help the workforce into the job of the future , rather than bury our head in the sand and pretend that the basin in the North sea be not super - mature . secondly , even if we be to extract more gas from our continental shelf , give that it be trade on an international market , and the pricing be set not by we but by the international market , we would continue to pay more for it , whether or not it come from the North sea , so that would not deal with the pricing issue reflect in the hon . Gentleman ' s question . do the Minister assume that after the Government have rob pensioner of the winter fuel allowance , gas consumption would go down , or be this government so obsess with their net zero policy that they do not really care whether we have enough gas to meet our energy need ? do the Minister not realise that be reliant on foreign supplier will push up fuel price in the UK ? how do he justify the fact that under his net zero policy , the Government be ignore the fact that we have 150 year - worth of gas naturally store in the United Kingdom , and will not use it ? let I repeat what I say a moment ago : even if we be to take much more gas from our continental shelf , it would still be trade on the international market . the reason why the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituent and mine still face a cost of living crisis be our exposure to petrostate and dictator around the world . he would clearly like to expose we to they even more , and I think that the Conservatives would support he in that , but we want to get ourselves off the rollercoaster of volatile fossil fuel and deliver a clean power system that be cheap in the long run and deliver energy security . that be what be good for consumer , and for all our constituent . the Minister have several time mention energy security , and have say that the drive to net zero will make we more energy - secure , but now that Europe have learn the lesson of take fossil fuel from Russia , we will take our renewable resource from China , which manufacture and process the vast of majority of the material need . what contingency plan have the Minister make in case China decide to get into a trade war with the UK on renewable , or to cut off supply ? the threat that could come from China be exactly the same as those that come from Russia about fossil fuel . let I say two thing to the right hon . Gentleman . first , our approach to China be that we will co - operate when it be in our interest to do so , and will challenge when necessary . that be the point that the Chancellor be make . secondly , the way to ensure that what he describe do not happen , and that we build as much as possible in this country , be to build an industrial base in this country and to bring clean power job to the UK . the last Government fail to do that . we be drive forward an industrial strategy that will ensure that the job that arise from the clean power plan that we design be in this country . the opposition can either support that or oppose it . this whole discussion underline the importance of electricity storage , include at the battery energy storage system in my constituency , the Bredbury substation . how can we encourage more community to welcome bess to their area , perhaps by consider community benefit , such as district heat network ? the hon . Lady make a really important point about energy storage in its various form . battery storage technology be move forward extraordinarily quickly , and the short duration that we can get from battery be improve quite considerably , so battery will have a key role to play . importantly , there be the potential for community to drive some of that . we have be really clear in our local power plan that we want community to be in the drive seat as much as possible , so that they can secure community benefit . we also want they to own some of the infrastructure . in a few week ' time , I will visit a scheme in Scotland where the community would be able to own not just a battery storage project , but a wind turbine that fill the battery . they would get a double benefit from the energy that they be generate and able to store . we would like to see more such scheme right across the country . I have a certain amount of sympathy for the hon . member for Widnes and Halewood ( Derek Twigg ) , whom the Minister slightly fob off with his answer . now that he have have a chance to calm down and check his note , I will ask the question again on the hon . member ' s behalf : what have the Government do to advance the case for nuclear energy since they take power ? that be a very good question . I thank the hon . gentleman for give I a second chance to reiterate that we inherit a whole series of plan that be not deliver . we have move forward as quickly as possible to deliver significant project , but we have also move forward the competition on small modular reactor . [ interruption . ] the shadow Minister say , " all you have to do be sign it off . " maybe he forget the state in which he leave some of his policy when he depart office . as well as improve energy storage , we should be improve energy efficiency in our home . the average energy performance certificate rating for property in Caerfyrddin be d ; it come fourth - low in Wales in that respect . the Government plan to increase the EPC rating for rent property to c by 2030 . if we be to meet that aim through insulation , what lesson can be learn from previous scheme , such as the ECO4 scheme , which have be beset with problem , include contractor carry out poor work on the property of old and vulnerable people ? that be a really important point . my hon . friend the Minister for Energy Consumers be lead a review of some of this work , and will have more to say about it soon . we need a scheme that roll out far more insulation to retrofit home . we have also drive forward a high standard for new house , but the delivery of the scheme have be questionable in place . I recognise some of her point , and that be part of what we have be review . I recently meet my Welsh counterpart to talk about planning regulation that be be bring forward in Wales , which will also make a difference to these kind of project . in 2022 , follow the full - scale invasion of Ukraine , we see a huge government subsidy for household energy bill and an extra £ 15 billion per year in additional support for household . I appreciate that gas be trade globally and that the gas price move globally , but if storage have be great in 2022 , could any of that £ 15 billion have be save for taxpayer ? that be a really interesting question that I ask myself when I come into this role . logically , we might assume so , but we do not empty the gas storage and then wait to refill it ; we refill it constantly . that top up will be do at whatever the price in the market at the time . the main reason why we would have use the gas in storage be that there be such demand in the system that the price be likely to be high anyway . the hon . Gentleman make a really important point , but I do not think that gas storage would have be the issue . I reiterate the point I make at the beginning : part of the reason why we have less gas storage than other european country be that we have a different mix of route to get gas in , and far more reliable supply chain for it , so we do not need to store quite as much as our european neighbour . I thank the Minister for his answer and for what he have say so far . approximately 330 , 000 home and business in Northern Ireland be connect to gas , and there be also a scheme to enable social housing to use gas . that mean that some of our elderly and most vulnerable people have no access to heating other than gas . how can the Government ensure that the most vulnerable in our society be guarantee their gas supply over the next week , and how can the Government keep those in priority need at the top of the supply chain ? characteristically , the hon . Gentleman raise an important point , and he have raise similar point with I before . it be important that the most vulnerable on the priority register be prioritise for any additional support , and that be what we continue to do . energy be a transfer matter in Northern Ireland , so I do not have a direct role to play in the gas system there , but I continue to engage with both Ministers in the Northern Ireland Executive that have an interest in this topic , and we have talk about these issue most recently . Sudan : US Determination of Genocide ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Minister for International Development for a statement follow the United States ' determination of genocide in Sudan . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for bring this important urgent question to the House , and to you , Mr Speaker , for grant it . the evidence of abhorrent atrocity against civilian in Darfur be mount . I be appal by report from the UN fact - find mission , include those refer to act of murder , mutilation , sexual violence and torture commit by war party . such despicable act be completely unacceptable . as we have discuss previously in this Chamber , the situation in Sudan be the bad humanitarian disaster anywhere in the world . the UK have pledge million in lifesave aid to Sudan and the wide region , and we be clear that this aid must be able to reach those in need unimpeded . on the precise question raise by the right hon . Gentleman , the long - stand position of successive british Governments be that it be for the court to decide whether genocide have occur . while the UK therefore take a different approach to genocide determination from that of the US , we condemn what be happen in the strong term . irrespective of any genocide determination , it be clear that atrocity have be commit in this conflict and that those responsible must be hold to account . we strongly support the International Criminal Court ' s active investigation into the situation in Darfur , include allegation of crime commit since April 2023 . this support have include the secondment of expert investigator to support the ICC ' s work in a number of country , include Sudan . since the outbreak of the conflict in 2023 , the UK have freeze the asset of nine commercial entity link to the rapid support force — the RSF — and the sudanese armed force , the SAF . on 8 November last year , the UN Security Council also sanction two RSF commander involve in perpetrate ethnically motivated atrocity . there be a long - stand UK arm embargo in place for Sudan , as well as a UN arm embargo on Darfur . the UK work closely with the US to renew the UN regime on 11 September 2024 . the UK have also lead the establishment of the independent fact - find mission at the Human Rights Council , and fund the Centre for Information Resilience to collect evidence of abuse and support accountability effort . in conclusion , we be determined to do all we can , as the UK , to work with other to press the war party to abide by international law and to protect civilian , collect information , promote prevention and ensure accountability . my purpose today be not to criticise the government but to urge they to do more on what be without doubt the bad humanitarian crisis in the world . I wish not to detain the House on the high politic of the region , but to focus on the unspeakable suffering of the sudanese civilian , who for almost two year have bear the brunt of the most appalling violence perpetrate by the two war faction . today , 25 million people need urgent humanitarian assistance , with over 8 million internally displace and a further 3 million seek refuge in Chad , Egypt , Eritrea and Ethiopia . above all , we face the unconscionable situation where a horrific famine loom over million of people , which will lead unbearably to hundred of thousand of woman , child and man starve to death before our eye . and if that be not enough , the violence perpetrate by the RSF — particularly , but not only , in Darfur — be explicitly identity - base , involve the targeting of black african tribe such as the Masalit and Zaghawa . right now in El Fasher , Darfur , over 500 , 000 civilian face siege and the triple threat of identity - base mass violence , armed conflict and famine . last week , the US Secretary of State , Tony Blinken , call these horror out for what they be : genocide . his determination be surely the clarion call for the UK , as the penholder on Sudan at the United Nations , to confront genocide and crime against humanity in Sudan . will the Minister set out the Government ' s approach to atrocity crime in Sudan ? will she consider fund Adama Dieng ' s office as the African Union special adviser on the prevention of genocide ? many of we have long warn that Sudan be the forget crisis . I see this for myself on the border between Chad and Darfur last year . it have come to pass that the world ' s neglect have allow appalling crime to thrive . now , more than ever , it be time for british international leadership to shine the spotlight , to prick the world ' s conscience and to bend every sinew of our capability to bring this indescribable horror to an end . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his commitment to this issue , which I know be share by many member from every party in this House . we be determined to do something about these appalling event , and I be grateful for the passion and determination with which he rightly speak . the right hon . Gentleman talk about the dreadful violence unfold in Sudan and the humanitarian situation . since he and I last speak in this place , the integrate food security phase classification be determine , on Christmas eve . it make for truly terrible reading to see that five area of Sudan be now classify as be in famine . the right hon . Gentleman talk about the need for political leadership , which this new Government be determined to deliver at every level , from the Prime Minister down . the Foreign Secretary have prioritise this issue , as have I and the Minister for Africa . I be sure that the right hon . Gentleman see that we , along with Sierra Leone , be determined to press the critical issue of protect civilian at the Security Council . we be appal that Russia decide to exercise its veto , as it absolutely should not have do , because this be an issue where human suffering be see in such appalling relief . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the UK ' s work on atrocity prevention . I have talk about our work on the fact - find mission . I be pleased to see the additional support from african country when the mission be renew . the UK have work on this with the African Union , and we continue to do so . I raise this when I meet the African Union in Addis Ababa . finally , the right hon . Gentleman talk about the need for this crisis not to be forget . we be determined to ensure that we use every mechanism available to we — bilateral , multilateral , within this Chamber and beyond — to raise the profile of this issue , and to ensure that the UK do what it can . of course , we have double our aid to Sudan , reflect this appalling crisis . at this hour , the situation be horrendous , with 6 . 9 million people at risk of gender - base violence and 75 % of child out of school . the US also announce new sanction when it make the announcement . will the Government review their sanction policy , in relation both to the perpetrate network on the ground and to the enabler abroad ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the matter of conflict - relate sexual violence in Sudan , and for the work that she and other have undertake on it . we have a debate on this subject in Westminster Hall last week , which raise the horrendous report come from Sudan about the impact on woman and girl . she talk about the number of child who be out of school , and her figure probably include informal schooling . it appear that around 90 % of child in Sudan be out of formal schooling , which be terrible for they both right now and into the future . they really should be in school , and we will always ensure that we do what we can to ensure accountability . our sanction policy be always under review but we do not talk about the detail in the Chamber , because to do so would reduce their effectiveness . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) for secure this important urgent question . it be right that we take seriously the fact that the US Administration have make a genocide determination in respect of Sudan and impose what they call " accountability measure " . as the Minister have recognise , we have a distinct mechanism for determine genocide and it be right that the Government stand by that . notwithstanding that , we recognise that the US ' s decision be design to confront the abhorrent brutality that the world be witness against the innocent people of Sudan , with appalling atrocity , as we have hear already , commit against civilian and completely unjustifiable restriction on humanitarian aid . with million need urgent food assistance , Sudan be hurtle towards a man - make catastrophe of unimaginable scale . the Government need to do everything in their power to press the war party into a ceasefire and to hold those responsible for the atrocity to account , because red line have be cross in the conflict and we can not stand by . as the Minister know , the Conservative Government apply a regime of sanction on those support the activity of the Rapid Support Forces and the sudanese armed force . in the light of America ' s decision , do the Government intend now to go far on sanction and to mirror the United States ? what be her strategy for try to deter non - domestic involvement in the conflict ? do the Government intend to provide additional expertise and resource to help ensure that the perpetrator of the crime , include those in Darfur , be bring to justice ? how will we leverage our position on the UN Security Council ? on the humanitarian side , what pressure be the Government exert to smash through what be now arbitrary obstacle block aid delivery ? what assurance can the Minister give the House that UK aid be end up in the right place ? finally , what assessment do the Government make of the US ' s new determination ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for the important point she raise , and I be pleased that there be cross - party agreement on so many of these matter . I agree with her characterisation of the relationship between UK and US activity on these issue , and the fact that the UK have a distinct mechanism on determination . she talk about the fact that this be a man - make crisis , and that be absolutely right . there be nothing inevitable about the extreme suffering we see in Sudan . we call on all war party to cease fire and to put the need of civilian at the forefront of their mind , rather than continue with this appalling conflict . the right hon . Lady ask about the action of other nation . I and other Ministers have make it clear from the Dispatch Box that there be no reason for any other country to be engage in Sudan , other than to provide humanitarian support ; they should not be involve for any other reason . indicate assent . I be pleased to see the right hon . Lady nod . the right hon . Lady ask about the political push and the mechanism we have be seek to use . we will keep up the pressure at the UN Security Council , and the Foreign Secretary have be seek to use that mechanism as much as possible . when we last discuss these matter , it be before the UK special representative to Sudan , Richard Crowder , be able to visit Port Sudan in December last year . I be pleased that happen as it be the first time we have have a UK delegation in Sudan since the conflict begin . it be really important that we can be there to put pressure on the party to the conflict . as I have mention , we keep our sanction under review but will not comment on future designation , for reason that the right hon . Lady fully understand . we have be seek to use our expertise . we be determined to do all we can to support the International Criminal Court , across a whole range of different theatre of conflict and different situation where it be active . part of that work include its activity in relation to Sudan . as we have hear , the situation for woman and girl be particularly severe in Sudan , with report of gender - base violence surge , include kidnapping , force marriage , child marriage and intimate partner violence . in fact , the UN have report a 288 % increase in the number of survivor of gender - base violence seek its case management service . will the Minister outline what step we be take to ensure that those perpetrate gender - base violence be be hold to account ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this matter . I know that she be deeply concerned about it and have experience of it from before she enter this place , as do a number of member . she refer to some of the report . the UN panel of expert release significant information , as we have already discuss in the House . attack have even take place within special , theoretically protect area such as camp for internally displace people . the fact that woman and girl have risk be rape within those camp , when travel , at checkpoint and even in their own home be truly appalling . we must ensure that there be accountability . as I mention , we have be work to renew the fact - find mission , as well as work with civil society mechanism to collate relate information from social medium to ensure that it feed into the overall picture . as in any situation where the fact need to be establish , that will be critical for the accountability mechanism , include but not limit to the ICC . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in three month , we will reach the second anniversary of the terrible conflict in Sudan . can the Minister update we on the Government ' s work to deliver a political process to secure a ceasefire before then , so that a civilian Administration can begin the work of reconstruction ? in the light of the judgment of the US Administration , can the Minister give the House a date by which the Government will have determine whether genocide be be commit ? last October , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) declare on behalf of the then Government that ethnic cleansing be take place in Sudan . what have be the consequence of that designation , and what more can the UK do to gather evidence of those crime ? as the Minister mention , Russia ' s veto of the Security Council resolution be yet one more example of its shameful role in world affair , but the need of child , woman and ethnic group for protection be great , not less , as a result . can she outline what action the UK be take to secure safe zone for school and hospital ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his important question . he be right to refer to the fact that we be approach the second anniversary of the conflict , which have have a truly awful impact on civilian . he ask about the political mechanism that we will use to seek a ceasefire . I refer to the first visit to Sudan by a UK delegation since the conflict begin . as I also mention , we be seek to use our role within the UN Security Council and our leadership of the Sudan core group within the UN Human Rights Council . on top of that , we be seek to use every instance of bilateral and multilateral engagement to put these issue at the forefront , because we see the immensity of the suffering within Sudan . the hon . Gentleman ask about a date for determination . I do not want to bore the House by restate the Government ' s approach , which be the same as that of previous government , but we believe that robustness and trust in the determination of these issue be important . that mean ensure that there be effective international instrument , drive by expert . in the International Criminal Court , it be through determination of expert lawyer , base on evidence that be internationally trust , that decision on such matter will be reach , include this one . he ask about evidence . I refer he to my previous remark about the work that we have be undertake , especially with the fact - find mission . we will seek to do all that we can to build on that in the month to come . I welcome the Minister ' s response , and ask that the Government continue to keep the House regularly update . as the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) say , the House should not forget this issue . in December , I meet Islamic Relief , which be base in my constituency , and it give I an update on some of the work it have be do . it tell I that at least 50 aid worker have be kill and 45 wound since the war in Sudan start . several aid organisation have have to suspend their work due to attack on their staff member , and over 120 humanitarian office have be loot . sadly , aid worker be the first line of defence for many of the innocent civilian we be desperately try to help in this escalate conflict . the Minister outline the additional funding from the UK Government , but what more can she say about specific action that the UK be take to prevent the targeting of innocent humanitarian aid worker in Sudan ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise those incredibly important issue . she be right that it be important that the Government keep member of this House inform about development . I can report that my official brief the all - party parliamentary group for Sudan and South Sudan . I be happy to ensure that that route for information be maintain , but I be also grateful to the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) for raise this urgent question and to any member who wish to discuss the matter with I . my hon . friend talk about Islamic Relief , and I want to praise its work and that of other non - governmental organisation that be active in try to ensure that support be receive by those in such desperate need within Sudan . she talk about the impact on aid worker . we have recently pass through one of the most deadly period globally for aid worker . as she mention , about 50 aid worker be assess to have be kill in Sudan and about 300 in Gaza . we also see aid worker be hold hostage in Yemen . the UK Government be determined to ensure that those issue be raise and that we enable those who spend much of their life in situation of danger to help other to do so in safety and security , and with the protection of international humanitarian law . I welcome this urgent question because it be an opportunity to shine a light on these appalling event . unfortunately , follow the right hon . Lady ' s last statement , we do not get much attention — even national attention — on they , and we must all try to ensure that we do . do she still think that the Jeddah process can bring the war party together ? what specific action have the UK Government take in relation to international partner , such as the United Arab Emirates , to encourage they to play a positive role in the conflict ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise those issue . I be keen to work across the House to elevate the salience of this dreadful situation . he mention the Jeddah process . the new UK Government be clear , as I believe be the previous Government , that both war party have to engage with those mechanism . of course , commitment be make by the war party during the Jeddah process that have not be hold to . they must be hold to , and they must both engage with the mechanism be create to seek a ceasefire . instead , we have see a frustrating situation where there may have be engagement by the RSF on some and by the SAF on other . they both must engage for the sake of civilian within Sudan and the many refugee beyond it . the right hon . Gentleman ask what we be do in relation to other country . I will repeat what I say before : the new Government be clear — again , as I believe be the previous Government — that there must not be engagement from other country in this conflict , aside from deliver the humanitarian aid in Sudan that be desperately need . that be very clear — the sudanese people have suffer enough . unicef ' s late figure estimate that 3 . 2 million child in Sudan face acute malnutrition this year , put they at severe risk of death . the limited humanitarian access , which be limit by all war party , be to blame for this crisis . will the Government tell we what discussion they have have with actor in Sudan and with regional actor to ensure full humanitarian access for those most at risk in Sudan , include , importantly , child ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that issue . I know he be deeply concerned about development over recent month . of course , a significant one have be the change we have see over time at the Adre crossing , which be critical for ensure that aid can pass into some of the area of Sudan that be under the most intense pressure , particularly when it come to food supply . it be important that the Adre crossing be keep open permanently . of course , we welcome the agreement to extend the opening of that crossing beyond the initial three - month extension to 15 November , but it should be open for the future — that be important . we also need the RSF to commit to urgently facilitate access across line of conflict . we need openness to aid , both into Sudan and then within Sudan , across line between the war party , to get support to those who be so in need , include child , as my hon . friend rightly say . when the Government last announce their aid package , one area be in famine and four be on the brink . those five area be now in famine , another five be expect to be by the spring , and a further 17 be at risk . as the hunger crisis spiral , less than 10 % of those in affected area be get humanitarian assistance . what new diplomatic step be the Government take to get food into those affected area , and will they are commit to further funding for humanitarian assistance in view of that ever - spiral famine ? I will be brief so that we can get to more question , Madam Deputy Speaker . I can inform the hon . Lady that , follow that truly disturbing determination by the IPC , the UK request an urgent open briefing at the UN Security Council on 6 January , in which we call for a lifting of all bureaucratic impediment , improve humanitarian access and a political solution to the conflict , so that the food and nutrition catastrophe do not deepen far . the Minister say that the US process for identify genocide be different from our . where do she think we be in that process , and what role do she see for the Law officer in make a determination ? if it be a question of evidence , would she not be wise to follow the suggestion of the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) to fund the office of the African Union special envoy on the prevention of genocide ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that subject , about which we talk a little previously . to underline the UK ' s position , we believe it important that there be international mechanism for determination on these critical issue because there must be international trust for those determination to carry weight . that be the UK ' s approach . when it come to accountability , evidence gathering and act on the evidence , we have seek to ensure that the UK support those mechanism , include the International Criminal Court . I have talk before about the UK ' s contribution to that Court . since we last discuss this horror on 29 October , I be not aware of any major news coverage of it . how be it that it go so under - report ? be it simply too dangerous for journalist to be there ? the Minister stress the wish for no other country to intervene , but be it not the case that genocide tend to go on until someone stop the people commit they ? the right hon . Gentleman ask about medium coverage . I be pleased that the BBC produce a major package on Tom Fletcher ' s visit . I be very pleased that there be that UN engagement , which be incredibly important . we need more focus on the situation . indeed , that be how I would respond — very briefly , Madam Deputy Speaker — to the right hon . Gentleman ' s third point . one of the most important thing in the prevention of atrocity be the ability for journalist , fact - finder , investigator and expert to visit , and the UK have be support that in our activity . finally , he ask about how we can ensure that there be a great profile on these issue from the UK side . as I mention early , I be very pleased that the UK ' s Richard Crowder be able to visit Sudan . it be important that we have a presence in that country . follow on from the previous question , there be a harrowing series on Sudan last week in which the Times report that enforce starvation have be part of the arsenal of war . I know that the sudanese community in Newport be deeply concerned for their friend and family , with no end to the conflict in sight . the doubling in November of the UK ' s humanitarian assistance be vital , but my constituent want the Minister to reassure they on what the Government be do to combat the deliberate restriction of aid . I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the commitment of the sudanese diaspora in Newport to support people in Sudan . I have see that from people from the diaspora in community right across the country , and indeed more broadly , with so many people who have see the detail of what be take place in Sudan be desperately concerned about it . I reassure she that we be determined to do all that we can to ensure that lifesave aid in food , healthcare and other mean be deliver to people in need so that the people who be suffer so much in Sudan be protect . we all remember the appalling comment of the Foreign Secretary in October when he say that genocide be a legal term , which " must be determine by international court " , which be appropriate only " when million of people lose their life " . — [ Official Report , 28 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 556 . ] the special adviser to the UN Secretary - General on the prevention of genocide have say that the situation today in Sudan " bear all the mark of risk of genocide " . the US Secretary of State have determine that the RSF and its aligned militia have commit genocide . in the UK , Protection Approaches ' director say that " the people of Sudan face unimaginable precarity under a triple threat of war , genocide and famine . " why be it that time after time in this House we be so reticent about use the word " genocide " when it be all around we and the evidence be there for we to see ? do the Minister stand by the Foreign Secretary ' s assessment that it be only for international court to make the assessment that million must die before the term genocide can be use ? do she believe that the US Secretary of State ' s use of the term " genocide " undermine its seriousness ? the Government believe it be critical that we have an approach to determine genocide that be consistent with our obligation under the genocide convention and the Rome statute . they be incredibly important . as I have say before , to have trust internationally in the system , it be critical that we ensure there be a clear , impartial and independent methodology for the determination of genocide . that be important because of the seriousness of the matter of which we speak . in 2004 , General Colin Powell , who be then the US Secretary of State , refer to event in Darfur as genocide , but action be not take . a genocide take place in Rwanda — it be not prevent — and there be similar event in Iraq where the Kurds suffer a genocide . irrespective of definition of genocide , do my right hon . friend agree that more external pressure be need from the international community to deter those who would commit war crime and ensure that humanitarian aid get in , irrespective of local opposition ? yes , I do on all count . almost daily , we see report about what be go on in Gaza or Ukraine , yet , as my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) mention , we see hardly anything about the situation in Sudan . clearly this be genocide , and the most important thing now will probably be the attitude that the incoming Administration in the United States take towards it . what discussion have the Minister , or any Foreign Office Minister , have with the incoming Trump Administration on the action they will take to support our penholder initiative in Sudan ? it be critical that the UK work with the US , and as the hon . Member would expect we have be work with our US counterpart on this issue , but it be also important that we work with other , particularly within the region . that be why we have be have particularly commit and repeat discussion with the African Union , for example , and why we be work with Sierra Leone on the fact - find mission renewal . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) for his continue work on this matter . report from Sudan be deeply harrowing . with the UN highlight the staggering scale of sexual violence be perpetrate , particularly by the RSF , there be credible evidence that some woman and girl be take their life or contemplate suicide as a pre - emptive measure . that that be happen in 2024 be absolutely appalling , and it be horrendous that it be happen without any international attention . will the Minister state what work we be do with international partner to ensure that we be deliver as much humanitarian funding as possible ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : some of the report we have hear in this regard be extremely disturbing . the UK be support the work of UN body on this issue , particularly the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights . when it come to aid , as my hon . Friend mention , we be ensure that we seek to support those who have be the victim of these horrific crime , include help partner to provide clinical treatment , dignity kit and psychosocial service for survivor . be the Minister commit to the introduction of a no - fly zone across Sudan , include drone , as be currently the case in Darfur ? a number of different mechanism have be advocate in relation to Sudan , seek to ensure that the appalling conflict there end . of course , there be already an arm embargo in relation to Darfur , and there be the UN arm embargo as well . however , so far , we have not see those mechanism deliver the result that be so desperately need . the UK be determined to work with our partner and internationally so that we can have the ceasefire that be so desperately need . that be the focus of our activity , as well as atrocity prevention and aid , as we have discuss . I know that the sudanese community in my constituency welcome the UK ' s leadership at the UN Security Council in push for a ceasefire , but it be deeply concern that seven rsf - own company in the United Arab Emirates have be name and sanction by the US for supply the finance and military equipment to sustain what be happen . can the Minister update we on what conversation the Government will have with the UAE , our ally , to account for its role in enable this unimaginable violence ? we have have conversation with a range of different country , both those right next to Sudan — which , of course , be see huge refugee movement within their border — and those that have be involve in broad discussion around these matter . our position remain that there should not be engagement of any other nation within Sudan , unless it be to deliver the humanitarian aid that be need . as the horrendous nature of this conflict become apparent , I concur with many member in this Chamber that it be a forget conflict . I thank the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) for bring this urgent question to the House , especially when we read report indicate a dramatic increase in gender - base violence , include over 2 , 000 case of sexual violence report in Darfur alone since the beginning of the conflict . as the penholder on Sudan at the United Nations Security Council , what step be the UK take to work with the International Criminal Court and the international community to ensure accountability for the perpetrator of that crime , and of genocide per se ? first , in relation to accountability , we have indeed be work with the ICC , as we would do on any issue . of course , the ICC be rightly strategically and operationally independent ; as the UK , we be determined to make sure we be contribute to its overall expertise while it act independently . the hon . Gentleman also talk about the UK ' s role as penholder . that have be very important for we , particularly in seek to get agreement at the UN Security Council about the protection of civilian . as I mention before , Russia ' s exercise of the veto on that subject be disgraceful . sexual violence be grow as a weapon of war and oppression , as be discuss last Thursday in Westminster Hall . can the Minister reassure the House that despite the previous Government ' s cut to the aid budget , she will do as much as she can to protect the woman and girl in Sudan , seek additional fund from the Treasury if necessary ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for again raise , as so many member have , the situation of woman and girl in Sudan . we will seek to use every mechanism available to ensure that the UK be contribute to the protection of the woman and young girl at such risk in Sudan . during this statement , we have hear many report about the appalling treatment they have receive , and they must be protect in the future . conflict such as this and genocide such as this tend to create refugee . have the Government make an assessment of what the continuation of this conflict will do to the number of sudanese refugee seek asylum in the United Kingdom , and if so , will the Minister share it with we , please ? the reality of the situation so far be that , although there have be very significant population movement , they have be into the country neighbour Sudan , particularly Chad , but also South Sudan , and many people have travel to Egypt and far afield . their situation have be very difficult in many case . I have talk directly to those push out of Sudan because of the conflict into South Sudan when I be there last year . the UK will seek to do all we can to protect those individual . twenty year ago , the Save Darfur coalition be one of the big international social movement of its time , but today the campaign voice of charity and NGOs on the conflict in Sudan be not be amplify in quite the same way , certainly not by government . why do the Minister suppose this be , and what more can the british Government do to amplify the appeal for support from humanitarian organisation ? we have be seek to amplify the voice of charity in this area . I have meet they myself , and I have be particularly keen to ensure that I have hear directly from those operate in Sudan and those run the emergency response room . those incredibly brave individual , who be neutral in relation to the different war party in this conflict , be determined to support those who be suffer so much . the UK Government will try to ensure that their profile be increase in the week and month to come . I thank the Minister very much for her answer . she be an honourable and passionate lady , and her grasp of the grave reality face Sudan be very evident from her answer . I thank she for that . the RSF and its sponsor , embolden by international inaction , act with impunity , laugh at the lack of decisive intervention . woman and girl be be subject to systematic sexual violence , village be be raze and entire community be be uproot on the basis of their ethnic identity . the suffering be staggering , and the silence from global power be deafen . can the Minister confirm that strong measure and international leadership be need , otherwise Sudan will collapse far into chaos , spread instability and suffering , and push the conflict far beyond the sudanese border ? I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for his kind remark . I have to say that I be so pleased to see that we have very strong cross - party concern on this issue and a determination to really make a difference for those suffer so much in Sudan and beyond its border as refugee . he be right to point out that , should there continue to be this level of instability in Sudan itself , that will have a further knock - on impact . we be already see people in Chad under considerable pressure when it come to food supply as very large number of people be come through from Sudan , and we have see the same in South Sudan , so this conflict really be have a terrible impact regionally as well as in Sudan . I thank the Minister for her comprehensive response . Artificial Intelligence Opportunities Action Plan with permission , I would like to make a statement about the Government ' s AI opportunitie action plan . this Government be elect on a programme of change . today , we be publish the late step in deliver our plan for change with the AI opportunitie action plan . our plan for change be clear : we will grow the economy , back british business , with good job put more money in work people ' s pocket ; and we will rebuild our crumble public service , too , provide our people with world - class healthcare and education . that ambition shape our approach to artificial intelligence — the technology set to define our share future economic and social progress . AI be no long the stuff of sci - fi movie and " Dr Who " ; the AI revolution be right here and right now . in NHS hospital , AI be help doctor to detect and treat disease fast and more effectively , reduce patient wait and save more life . in local school , AI be equip teacher with the tool to spend more time help every pupil to achieve their full potential . in high street across the country , small business have start use AI to grow their company and compete on the global stage . the application be boundless and the opportunity profound , but only those country with the courage to seize they will fully benefit . we do not get to decide whether AI will become part of our world — it already be ; the choice be between wait for AI to reshape our life , or shape the future of that technology so that the british economy and work people reap its maximum benefit . we choose fully to embrace the opportunity that AI present to build a well future for all our citizen . anything less would be a dereliction of duty . since the first industrial revolution , science and technological progress have be the single great force of change . once again , a reform Labour Government be call to harness the white heat of scientific revolution in the interest of work people . from end hospital backlog to secure home - grow energy and give child the good start in life , AI be essential to our programme of change . championing change be in Britons ' dna — we pioneer the age of steam . I believe that Britain can be a leader now , in the AI age . with world - class talent , excellent university and an unrivalled record of scientific discovery , we can do so . home to success story such as Google DeepMind , ARM and Wayve , we have the third large AI market in the world . just as we have be on AI safety , I believe that Britain have a responsibility to provide global leadership by fairly and effectively seize the opportunity that AI present to improve life . that be why in July last year I ask Matt Clifford to prepare the AI opportunitie action plan . across 50 recommendation , that plan show how we can shape the application of AI in a modern social market economy , anchor in principle of share prosperity , improve public service and increase personal opportunity . through partnership with lead company and researcher , we will strengthen the foundation of our AI ecosystem , use AI to deliver real change for our citizen , and secure our future by ensure that we be home to the firm right at the frontier of this technology . Change have already start . our transformative planning reform will make it easy to build datum centre — the industrial engine of the AI age . skill England will prepare british people to be active participant in tomorrow ' s business success . the digital centre of government will use technology to transform the relationship between the modern state and citizen . however , face with a technology that show no sign of slow , we must move fast and far . we be take forward recommendation to expand Britain ' s sovereign AI compute capacity by at least 20 time by 2030 , ensure that british researcher can access the tool they need to develop cutting - edge AI . we will create AI growth zone to speed up the construction of critical compute infrastructure right across the United Kingdom . with enhanced access to power and streamlined planning approval , those zone will bring fast growth and well job to community who have miss out in the past . the first pilot AI growth zone will be at Culham in Oxfordshire , a world - renowne hub for clean energy and fusion research . they will pioneer innovative partnership with business to deliver secure dedicated computing capacity that support our national priority . we will also seek a private sector partner to develop one of the UK ' s large AI data centre , begin with 100 MW of capacity , with plan to scale up to 500 MW . one of the big barrier to success in the AI age be the immense amount of energy that the technology use . the Energy Secretary and I be convene and co - chair a new AI energy council to provide expert insight into how to meet this demand , include opportunity to accelerate investment in innovative solution , such as small modular reactor . infrastructure alone , though , be not enough . to deliver security , prosperity and opportunity for every citizen into the long term , we must be maker of this technology , and not just taker . Britain need our own national champion — our own Googles and Microsofts . we be launch a new dedicated team with a mandate to strengthen our sovereign AI capacity by support high - potential frontier AI company in the UK . this team will work across and beyond Government , partner with the fast - grow firm to ensure that they can access the compute capacity , the datum and the global talent they need to succeed in Britain . we have already see how a small number of company at the frontier of AI be set to wield outsized global influence . we have a narrow window of opportunity to secure a stake in the future of AI . by act now , we can secure a well future for the british people in the decade to come , but this be just the start . we will safely unlock the value of public sector datum asset to support secure , responsible and ethical AI innovation . we will overhaul the skill system to safeguard our status as a top destination for global talent , with a workforce ready for the AI age . we will use a scan , pilot and scale approach to quickly identify and trial way of use AI to transform our economy and improve our public service . the stake just could not be high . this be a top priority for the Prime Minister and across Government . we will harness the power of AI to fulfil our promise to the british people of well job , well public service and well life . we have attract more than £ 25 billion - worth of investment into AI since we take office . this week alone , global giant have commit a furth £ 14 billion - worth of investment . phase 2 of the spending review will see every Department use technology to drive forward our national mission to deliver well value for taxpayer . AI will also be fundamental to the industrial strategy to attract investment , to grow the economy and to create high - quality , well - pay job across the country . the AI revolution be now . this Government be determined to fully harness this opportunity for british business and work people right across the United Kingdom . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . let I begin by thank Matt Clifford for his work . have know Matt for many year , I be grateful for his long - stand contribution to the tech sector , include with the last Conservative Government . it be that last Conservative Government who identify the opportunity of AI early , and we act decisively . we keep Britain out of the EU ' s anti - growth regulatory regime , enable our tech sector to flourish . in contrast , the Secretary of State be on record praise the EU ' s approach to AI , which even President Macron reject . will the Secretary rule out regulatory alignment with the EU on AI issue ? we also launch the incubator for AI , which lead on groundbreake work to improve productivity , and the gov . uk chatbot , both of which be lead by my hon . friend the Member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) . can the Secretary of State guarantee the future of both project under this Government ? we also provide £ 500 million for AI compute , because our AI sector require cutting - edge computing power , as well as more energy to power datum centre . labour ' s energy policy be take our country to the brink of blackout . instead of just launch another quango — the AI energy council — can the Secretary of State assure the House that the AI sector will have reliable access to all the energy it need ? it be a Conservative Government who organise the world ' s first AI safety summit and deliver the world ' s third large AI market , foster an environment in which Sir Demis Hassabis win the Nobel prize last year . even the Prime Minister admit today that when it come to AI , Britain start with a position of strength . the bad news be that Labour be already squander the world - lead AI position that we build up for Britain . last July , one of Labour ' s first action on enter government be to cut £ 1 . 3 billion of funding for Britain ' s first exascale supercomputer and the AI research resource — both of which Matt Clifford ' s report say deserve support . why do the Secretary of State not stand up to the Chancellor when she cut the funding last July ? anyone read the plan will see that it have be fully drench in Labour gobbledegook , pepper with reference to " mission " , " mission delivery board " , " cluster " , " sector champion " and even " local trust intermediary " . its plan confirm what everyone suspect all along : labour prefer technocratic jargon over the actual tech sector . the plan be ready last September and due to be publish last November . why do Labour delay publication again and again , and finally choose a day when it need to divert attention away from the beleaguered Chancellor ? what be not in the plan be even more telling than what be . first , there be nothing to correct the huge damage that Labour have already inflict on the AI sector through the Chancellor ' s national insurance job tax , which punish every tech worker by £ 900 per person per year . will the Secretary of State apologise today for make our tech worker take a wage cut and for reduce their living standard ? labour ' s response be full of aspirational date for target to be meet , but there be no specific plan set out how it will achieve the target or pay for they — so much for the Chancellor ' s iron grip on the public finance . give that there be no new funding , will the Secretary of State give a precise date for publish his spending plan , and confirm what funding will be cut from exist project to pay for this plan ' s 50 new commitment ? why have the Government create two more AI quango today ? the Prime Minister have announce or create a quango almost every week since come to office . today , it be clearly the tech sector ' s turn . will the Secretary of State reassure the House and the country that his two new AI quango will not just tie up our tech sector in more red tape ? last week , the Chancellor flee the country . as she head east , our economy go south . labour promise growth but it have deliver failure . it have publish an underwhelming plan three month late . it have punish our tech worker with the national insurance job tax . it have saddle our tech sector with red tape and more quango , and it align itself with the EU when everybody else be say no . labour ' s delay AI plan be analogue Government in the digital age : slow , uninspire and not good enough for Britain . our country deserve the good , but Labour have let Britain down again . I be kind of grateful for the hon . member ' s comment , but I feel a bit sorry for he . he praise Matt Clifford and his independent report , because Matt Clifford be an astonishing person — as a House we should all give credit to somebody who have be so successful in the tech sector out there in the real economy , while give up so much time for public service . I be grateful for he . but the hon . member then go on to talk about his report as if it be Labour ' s report , " full of gobbledegook " . it be not Labour ' s report but Matt Clifford ' s report . if the hon . member respect Matt Clifford , he would not be attack the very report that he author . I do not author it ; I just look at the recommendation , see the logic and the scale of the ambition in it and say yes . we share that sense of ambition and we will deliver it , too . if the hon . Member care so much about compute and the exascale computer , his Government would have do something fundamental to deliver it . they would have allocate the money . if they be stand up in public and say that they will deliver something , it be pretty basic stuff to allocate the resource to deliver it . that project never exist , because the money never exist . it be a fraud commit on the scientific community of our country — smoke and mirror from the outset . all I do be be honest with the public about the scale of the deceit inflict on they . I correct a wrong from the previous Administration . today , we have a plan . the task set for Matt Clifford be not to look at what government — particularly the previous Government — be capable of and then to try to design a programme limit by the scale of their chaotic ability . instead , the Prime Minister and I ask Matt Clifford to look at our country ' s potential if we get everything right on the digital infrastructure and opportunity of the future , and that be what his plan have do . there be thing this Government need to do differently in order to realise the potential out there in our country , and that be what we have set about do today by accept all 50 recommendation . when they be in office , the Conservatives do down our country ; now , in opposition , they do nothing but talk it down . that be a shame . I call the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . I welcome the Government embrace AI and the Secretary of State ' s leadership in accept every single one of Matt Clifford ' s recommendation — I hope he will be as receptive in accept the recommendation of my Committee . do the Secretary of State agree that those who say this plan be irrelevant to the challenge of economic growth in public sector financing that we be face fundamentally misunderstand the nature of the opportunity that AI represent , its presence everywhere in our life already , the frenetic pace of its implementation and its ability to drive growth ? most importantly , however , they misunderstand the nature of business confidence . have a Government who understand how to drive these opportunity into every home , business and public sector service in the land be a reason for business confidence . I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend for her comment and for the service of her Committee . it be a privilege to go before her Committee so soon after its formation , and I look forward to engage in the future . she be completely right . we hear a lot about business confidence and the word that come out of certain part of the business community , but today , they have vote with their investment . we have announce an additional £ 14 billion and the creation of up to 13 , 000 job as a result of today ' s investment — that be business show confidence in this Government . of course , for many of the scheme announce today , the policy will deliver into the short , medium and long term . together with our regulatory innovation office and our planning reform , that investment will mean that shovel go into the ground quickly , and the job and wealth that will be create by it will start pay dividend very soon . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of the statement . we be all too aware of the economic malaise inherit from the previous Conservative Government . innovation in technology can help to reverse year of decline , and the UK must be a world leader in quality innovation . from help to save life to boost our economy , good tech be good for business , and that be why safety and AI innovation must go hand in hand . we must build trust and bring people along , not risk breeding suspicion or fear . as the Ada Lovelace Institute say this morning , " there will be no big roadblock to AI ' s transformative potential than a failure in public confidence . " the national data library would represent a major shift in public sector datum handling . how will the Government ensure the necessary safeguard be in place ? how will they maintain public confidence ? while the focus on AI training be welcome , we must go beyond high - level skill . not only be tech company themselves call out for technical skill , but AI be here now , shape workplace , service and life . what be be do to ensure all sector of society can access lifelong learning and training ? where be the strategy to address digital exclusion so that no one be leave behind ? furthermore , the text and datum mining regime be a concern . creative will be dismay by the Government ' s acceptance of an opt - out system , which I urge the Government to reassess . the Prime Minister say that our AI safety infrastructure be world lead , but company be call for well funding access with well support from the British Business Bank , simple way of work with international talent and well infrastructure , from lab to internet access . how will the Government choose where those growth zone will be and ensure the benefit be share across the UK ? how will they ensure that small , innovative start - up be not leave behind ? innovation must go hand in hand with safety and trust , with the right guardrail in place to promote safety by design . only by do so can we lead in quality innovation and ensure the benefit be feel across the UK . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her constructive comment . she mention trust . Trust be incredibly important in this whole agenda . we have see too many time in the past where a fearful public have fail to fully grasp the potential for innovation come out of the scientific community in this country . we be not go to make that mistake . we understand from the outset that to take the public with we we must inspire confidence . we must have safety assure from the outset and that be a commitment I make today . if people be not safe and protect , and do not feel safe , they will not explore confidently all the potential that AI and the digital world present to they , their family , their community , their business and we as a country . we must ensure that they do so . on intellectual property , a consultation be under way . the hon . Lady , along with the rest of the public and all interested party , be very welcome to take part — indeed , I implore they to do so . growth zone present the most remarkable opportunity for part of our country . we want to ensure not just that every part of the country benefit , but that those part of the country that experience deindustrialisation and suffer at the hand of the Conservative Government over 14 year of stagnation , chaos and the poor strategic planning of our economy , benefit the most . in the come week we will announce the process by which we will select the future AI growth zone . I implore area , region and part of our country that be interested to start look at the Government ' s direction of travel to see whether they can play a part , and whether they can get involve and start deliver AI growth zone in their area . there be part of the country that will really benefit . we want to ensure that we have a set of local authority and area that be eager to take advantage of it . city like Stoke - on - Trent , leave behind by the previous Conservative Government , could significantly benefit from targeted AI investment . AI growth zone be one such opportunity . we have a great site in Stoke - on - trent and energy innovation . will the Secretary of State outline plan for use AI to drive investment towards the CreaTech hub that be Stoke - on - Trent ? the people of Stoke - on - Trent be extremely lucky to have such a strong advocate , not just for the infrastructure of the future but for the skill and the talent that exist across Stoke - on - Trent . I can assure my hon . friend that we be eagerly await any interest that Stoke - on - Trent show in the growth zone area and in all the other announcement that come out in the plan today . we will not do " to " community ; we will partner " with " community , area and the nation of the United Kingdom to ensure that everyone benefit . those who be hungry to embrace the agenda will have an active partner in my Department and this Government . the action plan call for an AI sector champion in the creative industry , but what the Government really need be a creative industry champion . the Government ' s copyright and AI consultation , which be so crucial for the creative industry , do not close until 25 February . one option on the table include maintain our current gold - standard copyright regime . why do it seem that the Government have already make up their mind on that consultation ? this plan herald the reform of the UK text and datum mining regime to be as least as competitive as the EU ' s . this plan make a nonsense of that consultation , do it not ? the hon . Lady , unfortunately , do not understand the idea of a consultation . we be open minded and we be listen eagerly to the sector . what I will not do be be force to make a choice . we have the second - large creative industry market in the world and the third - large AI market in the world . this be a gift for a country like our : two great sector that be root in the future of where global economic prosperity lie . she and the conservative party want we to make a choice between one or the other . we will not make that choice . on her call for a Government champion for the creative art , we have one : the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism , my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) . I sit alongside he and be very grateful to do so . small business and start - up be vital to the local economy in my constituency and throughout the UK . can the Secretary of State explain how his AI action plan will help those small business to seize the opportunity of AI , and deliver the growth that we desperately need across the country ? the people and business of High Peak have a great champion in my hon . friend , and as such they will be able to reap the reward . we need all part of the economy to embrace digital technology fully in a digital future , and to do so with confidence . the Office for Budget Responsibility say some time ago that if business across Britain do do so equally it would add 0 . 5 % to productivity , which would mean £ 27 billion of fiscal headroom for the Exchequer . we have set about do so because that be how we can break out of the inheritance from the Conservative Government of high tax and low growth . we want to invest in that future , and small business will be at the forefront . the great thing about AI and digital technology be that it put into the hand of small business the kind of power that to date have only be within the reach of large business . this be a huge opportunity , and I hope that people run small and medium - sized enterprise across the country will grab it with both hand . this morning the Prime Minister speak about the Government ' s wish to develop a clear and trust copyright regime , which be , I believe , what many in the creative industry think we already have . when the Secretary of State come to consider Matt Clifford ' s recommendation for reform of the text and datum mining regime , will the consultation include consideration of potentially strengthen intellectual property protection rather than weaken it ? the right hon . Gentleman be a persistent advocate of the issue that he have raise , but let I gently say to he that if the current legal regime be so satisfactory , there would not be so many outstanding court case concern that precise issue ; it be clearly struggle to keep up with the time in which we be live . we want to ensure that , yes , we do strengthen the right of the people who use the creative industry and all the great potential that that have for individual copyright material , and we want to strengthen that into the future , but also to get it right for the future . that be why we be think about the need , demand and opportunity of the future , and make sure that the settlement for those create digital , AI and creative industry product and service benefit they equally as we go forward , and that they have the assertion of the law . I be equally excited by the opportunity that be a leader in AI can bring to the people of the UK . as my right hon . friend will know , Milton Keynes have be a leader from its outset . we have Bletchley Park , the birthplace of machine learning and AI , but Milton Keynes business be lead as well , especially in art , service and transport . the heart of our security service effort be base there , as be our skill base between the South Central institute of technology , Cranfield university and the Open university . will my right hon . friend meet I , and other AI champion from Milton Keynes , to come up with action to make this plan a reality for the people there ? I have visit Silicon Valley three time in the past year , and one of the thing I have notice be that the constituent part that make it so magical when it come to innovation and the upscaling of it exist here in the UK , but we be not bring it together and use it in the right way . my hon . friend have just identify many of those constituent element in Milton Keynes , and they have a great champion in she , because they need to be co - ordinate well to fully exploit the opportunity of the future . I hope that , along with this Government and my Department , I can be the partner that she need , and I look forward to meet she and her stakeholder . I very much agree with the sentiment of the Secretary of State about the opportunity that AI present , include those that it present to my constituent , but with any opportunity often come risk . can he update the House on any conversation he have have with colleague from the Home Office about ensure that police be properly train , equip and resource to deal with crime that be bring about through , for instance , deepfake , misinformation or disinformation ? the hon . Lady have raise a very good point . I can assure she that we be indeed in touch with the Home Office , as we be with every frontline public service department , to ensure that AI be use and the potential be embrace . however , as I say early , safety and protection must be the first step , so that the public can be reassure that we be use this technology wisely and in their interest . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . Future AI will be essential to the future of our public service , particularly in improve productivity . can he say exactly what the Government will do to assist our public service to take advantage of the opportunity that AI offer ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the thing about AI be that it be not a singular technology ; it be a general purpose technology . just in health alone , AI be already be use in hospital ' radiography department , such as in Huddersfield , to make sure that scanning be more precise . we can detect early pattern quick , so we get to disease quick , and productivity be increase — in Huddersfield ' s case , from 700 to 1 , 000 scan a week . simultaneously , AI be ensure that doctor ' time be use more wisely in the test pilot that we be run . we be use digital technology to create a more human experience , because doctor can spend more time with patient . that be what happen when we use AI and digital technology wisely . it be why we , unlike the previous Government , will not sit on the sideline and let the market do business as it see fit . we will use the power of Government , and the agency that come with it , to ensure that this technology be use for the benefit of all . I do not know whether the Secretary of State have have a moment to read the Times this morning , but it report that the Chancellor be use a new AI tool to answer her email . it be 70 % accurate and be " perform as good or well than exist process " , which do not say a great deal for the ability of the Chancellor to answer her own email . be that as it may , could the Secretary of State please reassure we that any AI tool be use across Government will ensure that any statement bring to the Dispatch Box by the Chancellor be 100 % accurate ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we be pilot , develop and hope to deploy AI across Government to drive efficiency and effectiveness , and to serve the people of this country well than ever before — and certainly well , more efficiently and more effectively than they experience during the previous 14 year . can my right hon . friend set out what role he envisage the digital centre of Government will play in drive AI adoption across public service and Departments to benefit my resident in Exeter ? the people of Exeter will experience many benefit through this Government ' s digital technology programme . we have create the digital centre of Government because previously digital service be disperse across Government . the Government often buy off - the - shelf product and service from big provider , because the capacity do not exist in Government to understand , develop , deploy and program service in - house . we now have a powerful digital centre of Government , which be work alongside tech company and often develop in - house . I be really excited that in the day and week — not month and year — that lie ahead , we will tell the public more about what the digital service be deliver for citizen across this country . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I welcome the Government ' s ambition in this space , but one area of significant challenge to many tech company that I have observe and invest in over 20 year have be the ecosystem of investment in the UK . may I urge the Secretary of State to work closely with the Parliamentary Secretary , his Majesty ' s Treasury , the hon . member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , who be undertake valuable work on pension reform , so that we can intensify the understanding in the City of the opportunity that exist in this new sector , particularly at series C and before , where there be a gap ? it have a meaningful impact on the growth potential of so many business across this country . the right hon . Gentleman raise an incredibly pertinent point , and he mention one of the great challenge . there be many challenge in this agenda , which be why we be strive so hard to get as much progress as we can . remove one of the key barrier to not just upscale innovation , but keep it in this country , involve make sure that the investment landscape be comprehensive and swift enough — not just at spin out and scale up , but when we get to the point where we need the further round of investment that he mention . sometimes that be in the hundred of million of pound , and sometimes it take time to become profitable . take that kind of investment risk be essential . I can assure the right hon . Gentleman that the Chancellor and my hon . friend the parliamentary Secretary be both work intensively on pension reform . we do so in opposition , and we be carry on with the Mansion House process . we want to make sure that the investment landscape in this country be world class . right now , we have some work to do , but we be get there . I be pleased that today ' s action plan refer to the expertise and development in AI that already exist in Edinburgh . it be understandable that the Government have to cancel a number of unfunded project from the last Administration . however , will my right hon . friend work with stakeholder to ensure that the ambition to develop an exascale computer in Edinburgh be at the heart of the Government ' s long - term plan and will be bring forward in the next six month ? at last , there be a great advocate for a sustainable , fully fund , fully cost compute landscape for our country . that be something we have begin announce in today ' s plan , and into the spring I will announce further strategy on compute . I want to make sure that we have the right resilient , sustainable investment that our country need when it come to public compute . we have commit today to increase our public compute by a factor of 20 in the next five year . that show the scale of our ambition . my hon . friend can rest assure that when we make announcement on the compute need of our country , particularly when individual institution be involve , they will be fully cost , they will be fully fund and they will be deliver . People in our world - class creative sector will not be in the least bit reassure by the Minister this afternoon . our artist face the real prospect of their wonderful work be ingest by AI company without recompense or even permission . we know that the consultation be ongoing , but what people want to hear be the Minister ' s intention when it come to copyright . can he reassure people who be listen today that our wonderful copyright regime will remain in place at the end of this process ? we be already on record as say that we want more licensing of copyright material , not less . the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation be a mischaracterisation of the intention of this Government . the consultation be there , and we want to hear from people . we will deliver a way forward that harness all the opportunity of the creative industry into the future , not base on the past . we will allow AI company to come here and invest into the future . we do not need to pit both sector against each other . we as a country should celebrate that we have an economy so diverse that we can have the good of both sector . we can have world - class sector in both AI technology and the creative art . that be something that we celebrate , but we seem to be the only party in this House that do . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement this afternoon . I know that he take this subject really seriously . he be in my constituency just before Christmas , although it be a shame that he do not go into the PET scanner . I welcome the improvement in term of education . for the many parent who , like I , have to battle with Google Classroom when they forget the password , I hope AI can resolve that issue . one of the issue with AI be the mistrust in some community , particularly black and minority ethnic community , who worry about what their datum will be use for . how will the Secretary of State work with certain community , include in my constituency and other diverse constituency , to build up public trust and confidence that their datum will be use in an ethical and safe manner ? my hon . friend make the most important point . I be determine — I have say this publicly numerous time — that equity will be build into the technology and the policy of this Government from the outset . when she read the report , when she hear the word of this Government and when she listen to the Prime Minister , I hope she be reassure that this Government want to ensure that everyone from every background not only feel the ability to connect with and work within the tech sector here to create the technology of the future , but benefit equally from the product that come out the other side , include be able to use product intuitively and benefit from the wealth that be create from they . when it come to use public datum , I realise that there be community in part of this country that need to be take on a long journey and to be more reassure , and I fully commit to do so as we go forward . I welcome this action plan , which mention datum centre . as the Secretary of State may be aware , the Deputy Prime Minister be currently review the need for a data centre in Kings Langley in my constituency . both the report and the Secretary of State talk about ensure that the infrastructure be in the right place . I be work alongside my constituent in Kings Langley , because the propose site be prime green belt . if there be a need to build on and develop the site , housing would make well sense , because energy — a huge requirement for data centre — be not available nearby . how can the Secretary of State ensure that we be not encourage the building of white elephant in the wrong place ? [ Official Report , 15 January 2025 ; Vol . 760 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the energy and other constituent need of datum centre be , at last , be take into account in strategic planning in our country . we have create the AI Energy Council , which be jointly chair by the Energy Secretary and I , and the planning reform will mean that we can expedite investment in data centre . the hon . Gentleman should be aware that datum centre be not a singular investment , but that other innovation , industry and business often cluster around they . he mention heat , and community heat network often stem and flow from such investment , if there be the right local leadership , if there be plan in place and if there be the vision to make sure that our country benefit the most . we have that vision , and I implore the hon . gentleman to start get involve with the local issue to shape what unfold for the digital infrastructure of the future , so that it benefit absolutely everyone . this be a potential source of sustainable , good - quality wealth creation and job creation into the future . I suggest that his party get on board and grab it with both hand , rather than talk down the agenda we be put forward today . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . I be delighted that Vantage Data Centres be work to build one of Europe ' s large data centre campus in Wales , and plan to invest over £ 12 billion in data centre across the UK , create 11 , 500 job . this be , of course , great news for our Government ' s economic growth mission . can the Secretary of State therefore provide some insight into what this will mean for area like my Monmouthshire constituency ? I be grateful that my hon . friend can already see the benefit from this investment , because she be positive and be engage and think deeply about the potential benefit . incidentally , this investment be happen right now — not in the future , but right now . she will be well place to help steer it for the benefit of all . the people of Monmouthshire be very grateful to have she , just as we be very grateful to have she in the House , as a champion for these issue . I revert to the article in the Times mention by my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) , headline : " Rachel Reeves use AI to reply to Treasury email " . order . even if the right hon . Gentleman be quote from a newspaper , I would prefer it if he do not use the Chancellor ' s name . I beg your pardon , Madam Deputy Speaker . I do not want to misquote the headline . nevertheless — as we now all know who she be — I discover that , instead of correspond with her civil servant , as I think , I be engage with something call a " correspondence triage automation tool " , which be use for " the automatic matching of correspondence with appropriate standard response " . that might give we cause to chuckle , but can we at least have an assurance that when we write to Ministers , even if they be not reply , they will at least be inform of the fact that concern have be raise by member of this House ? I can assure the right hon . Gentleman that minister be fully engage in correspond with member across the House . have be a Back Bencher for so long in opposition , I can assure you that I strive to be a lot well than what I experience during so many of those year . order . can I just remind the Secretary of State that we do not use " you " in the Chamber ? please can question and answer be brief ? I would like to get everybody in before 6 o ' clock . I thank the Secretary of State and his team for their vision and leadership on this critical issue . these exciting plan could help we to drive growth , create job and improve public service . place like Peterborough could be at the heart of the silicon fen if we get this right . critical to that will be the issue of skill in city like mine — city that be leave behind for too long by the previous Government . can the Secretary of State update and inform we on what progress his Department be make on assess the UK skill gap when it come to AI , and how we can ensure that growth benefit all part of the country as we embark on this plan ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . he say , " if we choose to " . this government do choose to , and that mean engage with the Education Secretary on the skill agenda , and be determined to ensure that every community across the United Kingdom have equal access to the technology ' s potential . the Secretary of State be a constituency neighbour , so he will know that the convergence of the AI expertise at the University of Sussex , sustainable power from Rampion wind farm and computer power expertise from Universal Quantum , base in Haywards Heath , create an ideal ecosystem for support the UK Government ' s ambitious AI strategy . do he agree that our corner of Sussex be a strong contender to be a hub for sustainable AI development ? will he meet I to discuss those opportunity ? it will not surprise the hon . Lady or the House to hear that I agree with championing Sussex . I go to the University of Sussex myself ; I be an alumnus . its AI research centre be establish in the 1960 . that show just how long scientific endeavour in digital technology have be in full flow in this country . of course , I look forward to meet the hon . Lady , perhaps down in sunny Sussex . AI offer immense potential for drive economic growth , but it also present challenge for post - industrial area , such as my constituency of Burton and Uttoxeter , include the risk of job displacement , skill shortage and infrastructure gap , as well as concern around public trust and the impact on community . how be the Government address those challenge to ensure that AI deliver highly skilled sustainable job and long - term benefit to region like mine in the midland ? I assure my hon . friend that the community that he refer to be at the front and centre of the way that we envisage use the power of Government to steer this technology for the good of all . it be essential that community like his benefit . in the past , wave after wave of revolution negatively impact such community , but that will not happen on our watch . I make no apology for return to the vital question of copyright . notwithstanding the consultation , the plan recommend that we follow Europe in have an opt - out model . do the Secretary of State not agree with I and the News Media Association that that would be a watering down of our exemplary copyright law ? we put forward proposal as an entire package , which we be consult on . the hon . Gentleman reference one part of the package . if he look at it as a whole , he will see that we be strive to take care of all the compete challenge , because of the benefit and opportunity for modern Britain . do my right hon . friend agree that AI be not go away ? it be therefore good for the UK to lead development and good practice , so that AI system be safe for my constituent in Wolverhampton North East . my hon . friend be absolutely right . this technology be not go away . the choice this Government have make be not to sit on the sideline , as the Conservative Government do for the last 14 year . we will safely positively explore all the potential that AI have for our country , our economy and community like hers . I be grateful for her attitude towards the statement , because that be the way to ensure that community like hers benefit greatly from the next wave of industrial progress . the Secretary of State make clear his ambition to make the United Kingdom the frontier home of choice for AI firm , and he hope to see a significant increase in data centre . I trust that his ambition will be fulfil . the Republic of Ireland , our neighbour , have be very successful in secure multiple datum centre , primarily because of its very competitive corporation tax rate . be a competitive corporation tax rate the missing component that would bring all this work together ? I get to Northern Ireland as soon as I could after my appointment to this job . I have to correct the hon . and learn Gentleman on one point . we have attract £ 24 billion of investment in AI in this country since take office , and an additional £ 14 billion this week alone . I think that tell the House that the miss ingredient be not what he say it be , but a Labour Government . I welcome today ' s statement , and wholeheartedly support close work with the private sector , and the investment in AI and data centre . will the Secretary of State say a little more about his work to encourage more small business to benefit from AI , and will he consider read as a potential hub ? I really look forward to read get involve , and to it offer to partner with we . we want to get investment into great place like reading , which have a lot of great small business . small business in community up and down the country could benefit the most . they might sometimes feel like they be tuck away , but they can enter the global stage because of the technology that be before we . the Government ' s job be to ensure that the infrastructure be there , and that all the technology be as accessible to small business as it be to big company . we should be under no illusion : the u - turn on a supercomputer be exactly that . we commit £ 1 . 3 billion to it ; Labour cancel it . can the Secretary of State tell the House how much money have be set aside to achieve his supercomputer ambition ? I admire the way the Conservatives just push through with this . they do not commit a single penny to a single one of the project that the hon . gentleman mention . they want all the benefit of our Budget , but will not say how they would pay for they . he be actually ask I to cut £ 800 million , or £ 1 . 3 billion , of revenue — perhaps cut thousand of research grant to university and phd student — to pay for a project that the Conservative Government announce but do not commit a single penny to . the Secretary of State mention the benefit to industrial community such as Stockton North . do he agree that the commitment to artificial intelligence will lead to more investment in data - intensive heavy industry , such as chemical and life science ? I warmly invite he to visit the Billingham chemical cluster in my constituency if he wish to see industrial AI in action . my hon . friend could not be more right . not only will AI improve the investment landscape for physical infrastructure but it will mean profound technological advance in all sort of industry , include those that be chemistry dependent . I be so glad that those industry have an MP who recognise that , be on their side , and be stick up for they today in the British Parliament . it be clear that AI bring great opportunity , as well as some danger . nowhere be that more clear than in the military realm , where , to put it simply , an algorithm can help we make a decision about who to kill , and the quick we do that , the more of an advantage it give our side . on the other side of the ledger , if we kill the wrong person , our entire legal and ethical framework for how we conduct war disappear . will the Secretary of State give the House a broad outline of his discussion with the Ministry of Defence on this important international issue ? the hon . Gentleman raise an incredibly important point . I assure he that we have a world - class defence industry in this country , world - class defensive capability in the Ministry of Defence , and a Government who be determined to ensure that not just digital technology and AI but all evolve technology be use ethically and appropriately in the defence of our nation . I also assure he that the Prime Minister have write to each Government Department ask for their plan on digital progress and safely harness the power of digital technology , and that my Department and the Ministry of Defence be in touch . at the risk of disagree with some of my colleague , it be surely Mid Cheshire that be lead the way on AI innovation in the north - west ; we have a number of company work on game - change application . safety Shield Global in Winsford win a King ' s award for enterprise for its AI model , which have be 10 year in the making and be keep construction worker safe on site all over the world . the action plan talk about the potential of post - industrial constituency such as mine to act as AI growth zone — key driver for regional growth . how can area work with the Government to get AI growth zone up and run , and how soon do he expect they to be operational ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for share that example from his constituency . in the come week , we will release detail of how local community can get involve and apply to become AI growth zone ; I really look forward to see his . over the summer , the UK Labour Government cancel £ 1 . 3 billion - worth of investment in tech and AI project , include £ 800 million for the next - generation exascale supercomputer at the University of Edinburgh . the UK Government describe the project as make " little strategic sense " , yet today they have pledge to turbocharge AI , include through plan to build a brand - new — wait for it — supercomputer . there be to be new investment ; give that the University of Edinburgh have be at the centre of research and development of AI for more than 60 year , will the new supercomputer be locate in Edinburgh ? I will make the basic point again , because I think the hon . Gentleman need to hear it again : I could not cut something that do not exist . I have extend the life of the exist supercomputer for another year , so that people have the reassurance that the capability need be there , via the University of Edinburgh . in that time , I have be work on a strategy that will have resilience because it will be fully cost , fully plan and fully fund , so that from spring , when the strategy will be release , those who need to know the strategic opportunity in our country will have the certainty that they need , now and for the long term . a barrier to the growth of data centre for AI be their need for power . Rolls - Royce in Derby be at the forefront of small modular reactor and micro - reactor . smr be small enough to be on or next to datum centre site , and micro - reactor be the size of a shipping container . co - location would mean less vulnerability to grid failure and cyber - attack . will the Secretary of State work with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero to explore whether this could be the clean energy solution need to support sovereign AI capability ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s very pertinent question . investment be go into new source of energy from investor around the world . I be really pleased that we have Rolls - Royce , which I visit just before the election , up in Coventry . I see some of Rolls - Royce ' s capability and hear some of its ambition . I assure she that the AI Energy Council , which I chair jointly with the Energy Secretary , will take into consideration these sort of issue , and ensure that the Government engage with those innovation . we want to ensure that we be at the forefront of not just data infrastructure but all the relate industry from which our country can benefit . give that AI capability will seemingly be use positively , can the Secretary of State explain how the plan will advance area such as healthcare ? do he see it as a way of reduce backlog in the NHS , include in waiting list and book system , and can he confirm that all region of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland will play their part and benefit from AI ? I be always grateful to the hon . gentleman for his contribution , and have enjoy work with he in opposition and now in government . AI have enormous potential for the health service ; it could improve productivity , bring about innovation , and advance treatment and medicine . I assure he that we be strive for that . the Health Secretary and I be make many visit together to try to understand how we can work together to ensure that technology be develop and implement throughout the NHS . I have be in touch with the Northern Ireland Assembly on the way forward , and on how the Administration in Westminster can partner with the Northern Ireland Government and ensure that Northern Ireland benefit . I know that there be challenge with the waiting list there . I join the Secretary of State in praise Matt Clifford , who have produce a top - class report . when build datum centre for train AI model , two thing be need : lot of energy , and ideally , cold weather . fortunately , Scotland have both of those in abundance , so will the Secretary of State ensure that one of the AI growth zone be in Scotland ? I be not go to engage on the weather , come from Brighton , which be the sunny mainland city in the UK , but I thank my hon . friend for let I get that on the record . I assure he that we want all part of the United Kingdom to benefit . I be in touch with the Scottish Government Finance Minister just last week . I be determined that all part of the United Kingdom benefit , and that fully include Scotland . Scotland be lucky to have he here champion its cause and celebrate its potential . progress in this area will be incredibly energy dependent . do my right hon . friend agree that we need to speed up the roll - out of small and advanced modular reactor to meet that demand ? give its history , skillset and location , Hartlepool present a perfect opportunity for this type of investment . I assure my hon . friend that we be strive to ensure that innovation of all kind be expedite . that be why I establish the regulatory innovation office in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology . we be already pilot four area of policy so that we can get innovation off the drawing board and into the economy , benefit the health and wealth of the nation as quickly as possible . I assure he that we be waste no time to get that do . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . as he say , the AI revolution be take place now , and it will make significant improvement in the promotion of public service and business . however , would he reassure my constituent in Wolverhampton West on what specific step he will take to ensure that AI be safe in every possible way ? the work of the AI Safety Institute be ongoing , and it do world - class work . of course , AI be fuel by datum , and we know that the public need reassurance that datum will be use safely . with a data Bill go through , and with a government that want to ensure people have the right they need to have control over their datum , I want to assure my hon . friend on the use of datum , technology and AI , as well as on the use of algorithm , which be increasingly be use in the private sector , but also in Government . unlike the previous Government , I want to ensure that algorithm be publish by department so that everybody can understand what it be that we be do in their interest to benefit the country , because without understand it , people will not feel safe with it be use . I will not tolerate that because we need to ensure that we as a country use this technology for the public good . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s leadership on AI — it be good to have someone take this seriously . as somebody who be teach a year ago , I be always interested in the application of AI in the classroom , especially when it come to reduce teacher workload so they can spend more face - to - face time with their student . I be also interested in the application of AI in create personalise learning resource for student base on their ability . will the Secretary of State speak about that in more detail and potentially tell we about the timeline for roll this out in our school ? I be grateful that my hon . friend have bring his experience from the classroom into the Chamber and into debate such as this one . as somebody who have experience neurological challenge and barrier to learn as a child and through life , one of the most exciting part of the digital and AI revolution that be unfold be that , if we harness this correctly , a single classroom can exist both for student who have barrier to learn and for other who have specific talent that need stretch and challenging . of course , there be no replacement for great teaching and the people and teacher in the classroom work with student , but with the assistance of digital technology and with what AI can do to provide a granular , detailed and tailor experience for student , that be something we be work on . my Department be work with the Department for Education so we can get this technology into classroom and , as he say , for the benefit of all student right around the United Kingdom . on Friday , I visit a major National Grid upgrade project in my constituency , which will connect to a huge new data centre in north - west London . the Secretary of State have talk about the additional energy infrastructure need , but how will he work to speed up the planning system , include take on those who seek to block this critical new infrastructure , so that we can harness the benefit ? we certainly save a great question for last . we be absolutely determined about the plan we have put forward today , and let I express my gratitude one final time to Matt Clifford for do the report . to fully embrace this technology , we need to get a lot right . we need to get regulation and planning right . we be already undertake a huge reform of our planning system — the big for well over a generation . that will include the ability for Government locally and centrally to ensure that investment into industry and infrastructure of the future be expedite and that it face no barrier , so it can be put to the common good for our country and its citizen without delay . live event ticketing : Resale and Pricing Practices with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement about ticket in the live event sector . in the word of the musical " Hamilton " , there be nothing quite like be " in the room where it happen " . I would hazard a guess that every single one of we here can remember the first time we go to a live event . my first rugby international be Wales versus Scotland at Murrayfield aged 12 — the food be terrible . my first live gig be u2 ' s " the Joshua Tree " at Wembley arena . these moment of share passion be part of what make we the people we be . as Gloria Gaynor say , " there ' s nothing to compare to live music , there just isn ' t anything . " no wonder live event be so highly prized . but for far too long , ticket tout have leach off fan ' passion . in the past , it be spiv in long raincoat at the gate . nowadays it be a trade make all the more pernicious by the internet , which enable modern - day tout , hide behind multiple false identity , to hoover up ticket and sell they at vastly inflate price . it be indefensible . it trade off other people ' s hope and do not return a single penny to the artist , the performer , the venue , the industry or the sport . we say we would tackle this , and that be precisely what we be do . on Friday , the Department for Business and Trade and the Department for Culture , Media and Sport publish a consultation on the resale of live event ticket and a separate call for evidence on pricing practice in the live event sector . it be not a consultation on whether to act ; it be a consultation on precisely how we should act . the UK have a world - lead live event sector . our artist , festival and venue bring joy to audience across the country . last year , the sector employ over 200 , 000 people , contribute to local economy up and down the country , from stage technician and sound engineer to venue staff and promoter . every event — whether a major stadium event or an intimate gig at a grassroots venue — inject life into local community and economy , support small business and generate significant revenue for our town and city . it be musician , performer and athlete who make the event what they be and who create the value that sit behind they , not the ticket tout . live event be a catalyst for creativity , too , where artist have a platform to hone their craft and relate directly to audience , as well as to earn a living . live performance create unforgettable share experience that transcend cultural and social boundary , unite community up and down the country and shape our national identity . however , too many fan be miss out on opportunity to experience those live event . put simply , the ticketing market be not work for fan . the Government recognise that a well - function ticket resale market can play an important role — for instance , allow those who can not attend an event to give someone else the opportunity to go in their place . but far too often ticket be list on the resale market at extortionate price , many multiple of the face value . just one example : stand ticket for Charli XCX ' s current UK tour be originally price at £ 54 , but they have be list on ticket resale site for as much as £ 400 . that be enough , as she herself would put it , to " shock you like defibrillator " . so - call scalping be the work of organise tout , who systematically buy up ticket in bulk on the primary market then resell they to fan at hugely inflate price . the Government be commit to put fan back at the heart of live event and clamp down on unfair exploitative practice . in do so , we want fairness for fan and an economically successful live event sector . we make a manifesto commitment to act on this issue , and that be precisely what we will do . that be why we have launch a consultation as the first major step towards deliver on this ambition . we want to act in an effective and responsible way , ensure that any new protection work for fan and the live event sector . the consultation outline a range of potential option to address ongoing problem . we be revisit the recommendation from the Competition and Market Authority ' s 2021 report on secondary ticketing that be not take forward by the previous Government . they include a licensing regime for resale platform , new limit on the number of ticket that individual reseller can list , and new requirement for platform to ensure the accuracy of information about ticket list for sale on their website . we be also keen to tackle scalping — that be to say for - profit resale of ticket above face value . that be why we be consider a statutory price cap on ticket resale , as see in many other country . its purpose would be to break the business model of organise tout by prohibit resale at vastly inflate price . in the consultation , we ask how a price cap should be design and implement , so as to deliver a genuine sea change in the ticketing landscape to the benefit of fan and the live event sector , and whether it should be face value only , or plus 10 % , 20 % or 30 % . there be one other aspect — we might call it " the Oasis moment " — on which we be seek evidence . the live event sector have adopt new approach to sell ticket in recent year , include the use of new pricing strategy , and technology such as dynamic pricing . I want to be absolutely clear : not all dynamic pricing be harmful . fan often take advantage of early - bird ticket and last - minute price reduction — that be absolutely fine and we have no intention of stop it . the key thing be that fan be treat fairly and openly , with timely , transparent and accurate information present ahead of sale . to well understand these change and the challenge face by fan , we be publish a call for evidence on pricing practice in the live event sector . the consultation and call for evidence will be open for 12 week . we strongly encourage all interested stakeholder — fan , artist and performer , ticket platform and the wide live event sector — to respond . once the consultation be complete , we will decide on next step , but the House should be no doubt that we intend to act . we have a world - class live event sector in the UK , but we do not have a secondary ticket market to match . in the word of t . rex : " it ' s a rip - off such a rip - off " . to the fan , the performer and the tout , let I be crystal clear : we will clamp down on unfair practice in the secondary market . the question be not whether but how we improve protection for fan . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the hon . gentleman for advance sight of his statement . as he say , dynamic pricing be a strategy use across many industry outside the creative sector , include by hotel , taxi and airline . it can offer significant benefit for consumer when price be low — for example through early - bird ticket or late ticketing . the Government be right to emphasise the importance of transparency . oasis fan know — I be one of they — that we do not have the necessary information up front , and I understand that the Competition and Markets Authority be rightly investigate that episode . however , it be my view that new regulation should be consider only when they be necessary and proportionate and do not duplicate exist rule . current legislation already state that although dynamic pricing be legal , it must be implement transparently . I can assure the Minister that we will carefully consider any proposal that could strengthen , improve or simplify the market for fan , but I warn he that we will oppose regulation introduce for the sake of introduce new regulation . the secondary ticket resale market play an important role for artist , fan and venue . it can provide a safe way to transfer unwanted ticket , ensure that seat in venue be not leave empty . the Minister claim that his reform will well protect fan , improve access to live event and support the creative sector . he claim that the proposal will give power back to fan and prevent they from be fleece by ticket tout . we know that that be not true , however . we know that labour ' s plan will harm fan and venue , and make live event even hard to attend . [ interruption . ] the Minister want to know so I will tell he . let we first discuss price cap on resale ticket . the Government ' s consultation propose cap ticket resale price to somewhere between the original price and a 30 % uplift . that may seem on the surface like a reasonable measure , but we know that it will lead to an upsurge in black market activity and to more money flow into the pocket of ticket tout . in fact , price control would lead to a surge in unregulated and illegal transaction , leave fan with little to no consumer protection . the Minister might not believe I , a free - marketeer , but in response to Government ' s consultation , the Computer and Communications Industry Association , warn that " draconian regulation , target only the secondary market , will only mean more ticket change hand in informal setting without the same protection that exist in proper marketplace . " I regret to say that the Government ' s propose measure to increase the regulation of resale website and app , and to raise fine for rule violation , will not prevent fan from turn to underground market . we have already see that in Victoria , Australia , where a 10 % profit cap fail to prevent significant mark - up on ticket price , and even lead a spike in the number of ticket scam . we know that scam be already a serious issue in the secondary ticketing market . for example , and as the Minister will be aware , Lloyds Bank estimate that Taylor Swift fan lose £ 1 million in ticket scam ahead of her tour . if his policy have be in place , how much more would fan have lose to scammer ? we know that a ticket resale cap will lead to empty seat and the prevent spontaneous ticket purchase . we see that at the Paris Olympics , where restriction on the resale of ticket leave empty seat at many venue . empty seat be bad not just for artist , but for the economy . event at stadium and venue provide a boost for local business , include restaurant , bar and other hospitality venue . let we be clear : the hospitality industry be already under a lot of strain , not least because of the Budget of broken promise . labour ' s national insurance job tax , and its slashing of relief , have lead the Music Venue Trust to warn that many business be at " immediate risk of closure , represent the potential loss of more than 12 , 000 job , over £ 250 million in economic activity and the loss of over 75 , 000 live music event . " let we be clear : the reason we be here today be that the spin doctor in no . 10 be try to move the news cycle away from a beleaguered Prime Minister , a Chancellor already drown in the debt market , and an anti - corruption Minister be accuse of corruption . all the while , the Government and the Department be throw creative industry and hospitality business under the bus . lordy , lordy , lordy ! the hon . Gentleman say that he be an Oasis fan , but to be honest give how he talk about the last Tory Government , I think he must be a Nirvana fan — because everything be absolutely perfect when he be a Minister , wasn ' t it ? let I first put something right . the hon . Gentleman seem to think that our call for evidence on dynamic pricing be about all sort of different industry , but it be only about the live event sector . we be not talk about the tourism industry , hotel , taxi or anything like that ; we be talk solely about the live event sector . we recognise that that be not part of our manifesto commitment , so we want to hear people ' s evidence and whether we need to take further measure . one thing that I can say confidently be that it seem horribly unfair for someone log into the system to see the ticket price go up — £ 120 , £ 125 , £ 130 , £ 135 — because that create a sense of panic that they must buy one . it be perfectly legitimate to consider whether that be a good way of sell ticket and whether it be fair to consumer . that be a legitimate question to ask . I can not comment on the Oasis situation ; the hon . Gentleman know perfectly well that the Competition and Markets Authority be investigate that . let I correct the hon . Gentleman ' s other point . he keep say , " we know that " this , that or the other will happen . well , we do not know , for a start , but more importantly , let I explain to he what we be really try to tackle . it be the thing where , say , Becky , who live in flat 23 , no . 75 High Street , be desperate to get two ticket to see her mum ' s favourite band on her mum ' s birthday later that year . she be absolutely desperate , so she try and try again to log on at 9 o ' clock . she can not manage to get into the system , but can see the ticket sell . at 20 past 9 , all the ticket be go but then — lo and behold — at 21 minute past 9 , they be available on the secondary ticketing market for vastly inflate price . that be what we be try to tackle . it be a very simple problem . the hon . Gentleman refer to just one country , but load of place around the world — France , Italy , Ireland , Poland , Portugal , Norway , Japan , Belgium , most of Canada , most of Australia , Israel , and several state in the United States — have simple measure in place . we want to ensure that we tackle that very simple problem . in the end , the value be create by the artist themselves and by the passion of the fan . it should not go into pocket that be not , in the main , base in this country and certainly have not contribute anything to the creation of that value in the first place . have campaign on this issue for over 15 year , I have reach three main conclusion . first , the cap on resale should be set as low as possible — for example , face value plus 5 % or 10 % — to take the incentive out of scalping , or else we should simply follow the irish model and prohibit resale for profit altogether . secondly , many tout and resale site be base overseas , so legislation must be supranational . finally , any crackdown on the black market must be fully enforce , unlike in the current situation where prosecution be few and far between : there have be a handful — six at most . do the Minister agree ? I agree that my hon . friend have campaign on the subject for 15 year , because I have hear nearly every speech she have make on it , and she have be absolutely magnificent over the year . I pay tribute to she . many artist in this country will be grateful for her work because so often they be catch in a completely invidious situation as they see ticket go for preposterous price . I look early at StubHub , which be sell Dua Lipa ticket for Wembley on 20 June with a face value of £ 81 . 45 for £ 2 , 417 . for Jimmy Carr at Milton Keynes in two day ' time , Viagogo have ticket with a face value of £ 60 for £ 202 . that be the problem that we must deal with . my hon . friend be absolutely right about supranational issue ; this problem do not just apply in the UK . it be difficult for we to prevent these people from sell ticket for Olivia Rodrigo concert in Mexico , but we can ensure that measure do apply for Olivia Rodrigo concert in the UK . she be also absolutely right about enforcement . that be why we be look at whether there should be a licensing regime and , if so , precisely how that should work . she have make this point in many speech — I will reiterate it for she : we have hardly see any prosecution whatever under the complex set of rule that there be at the moment , and that be one of the thing that we have to fix . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I add my thank to the Minister for advance sight of the statement . it be good to have the Government ' s next step to try to support fan , performer and other work in the live event industry lay out in the announcement . we know the huge value of live event in this country , which make a great contribution to our economic as well as our cultural wellbeing , and it be right that the Government be take action . too many fan across the country have fall prey to sharp practice and tout rip they off , and the Liberal Democrats be supportive of take action . the Liberal Democrats have long call for the implementation of the Competition and Markets Authority ' s recommendation to crack down on ticket resale . those recommendation should be lead the Government forward on this issue . measure such as cap ticket resale be important . can the Minister provide great clarity on the Government ' s intention in that regard ? will he suggest what cap on ticket resale the Government would favour at the moment and what new power of enforcement they will give to trading standard and the cma ? beyond those measure , will the Government consider be more ambitious by , for example , give consumer more control by require ticket company to provide accurate information on price increase or answer liberal Democrat call to review the use of transaction fee ? I want to be clear that we welcome the Government ' s look at the queue system use by ticket seller in both the primary and resale market and consider measure that could address the current situation , which , as the Minister describe , too often feel unfair and arbitrary to those fan on the end of it . hear the voice of fan in this discussion be undoubtedly important , so we really welcome the consultation , but fan also want to know that the Government will get on and act to solve these problem . to conclude , may I ask the Minister to inform the House about when fan will start to see some change be implement ? I welcome the hon . member to his post and welcome the Lib Dems ' support for what we be propose . there be just a couple of thing . he refer to accurate information , which it could certainly be argue be already legislate for but not well enforce . indeed , when I look at some of these site early today , it be interesting to see that sometimes the face value be findable , but not at the same time as the price to be pay . we would think it should be mandatory for somebody to be able to see both at the same time , to see whether they be go to be rip off . I personally do not subscribe to the line that if somebody be prepared to pay £ 2 , 417 for a Dua Lipa ticket , so be it . it seem to I that that be effectively the line from Eurythmics : " some of they want to be abuse " ; I do not think that we should adopt that policy at all . on the point that the hon . Member make about transaction fee , I think that I be right in say that section 230 of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 would already apply to what he be argue for . if I have get that wrong , I will send he a note . Madam Deputy Speaker , I note that at one point — it may have be at a particular event — you say that your favourite song be " girl just want to have Fun " by Cyndi Lauper . she perform at the Royal Albert Hall last year , and I be not sure whether you be there . I commend the Minister for his astonishing memory . the statement be hugely welcome by I , after the disappointment of my private Member ' s Bill on this subject fall off , and by my constituent Alison Martin , the mum of coldplay ' s Chris , who feed into my Bill . will my hon . friend the Minister assure I that he will resist the argument about over - regulation of our life and market force that we hear " Time after Time " from Conservative member ? we just hear it again . when I be try to get sign - up for my Bill , many conservative Members do not want to know . this be a consumer protection measure — a cap for all our constituent — to stop those bot from hoover up ticket and hike up price . will the Minister also reiterate that we be not against all dynamic pricing ? the price of ticket can go down as well as up , and we do not mind that . I commend my hon . friend on her private Member ' s Bill . I tell she that we be go to be act fairly soon so her Bill might not be necessary . she do not believe I , and she plough on , but we be intent on act . my hon . friend be quite right about dynamic pricing . I have be involve in a small art festival in Treorchy in my constituency where we offer early - bird ticket . that be a form of dynamic pricing that I think work for everybody , and we certainly do not want to prohibit that . my hon . friend be quite right : much as I like my opposite number , the hon . member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) , I find it quite easy to resist he . when I think of the previous Government , I keep think of this line from Pink : " what about all the plan that end in disaster ? " I call the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I welcome the Government ' s put music fan at the forefront of these consultation , although the Minister will know that I would like he to go far and have a full fan - lead review of music . meanwhile , look at the detail of these consultation , it be tell that while Ticketmaster welcome the resale consultation , it be silent on the dynamic pricing issue . the Minister will recall that Oasis tell their fan that dynamic pricing be a " tool to combat ticket touting " . do he agree that if the Government act decisively to stop large - scale touting from inflate ticket price , there will be less need for promoter such as Live Nation to have to use dynamic pricing ? the hon . Member make a good point , and it be a delight to be able to agree with she on something in this area at the moment . we might yet have a little bit of a disagreement over copyright and artificial intelligence , but I think that be only because she have misunderstood what we be try to do . I hope to be able to sit down with she and talk it all through . we want to ensure that we get the legislation right , and that be why we be do a consultation rather than just storm ahead with a piece of legislation . as my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) say , there be no point in carry out any of these measure unless we have a proper system of enforcement . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) for the doughty way in which she have fight this corner for many year . I remember how even back when I be the shadow sport Minister and this be my area , she be campaign hard on it . this be very much legislation in favour of the fan . we have to remember that , in many case , the artist realise that their own fan be be price out of be able to go to their concert by the practice of these online ticket tout , so legislation be well overdue if we want to make ticket affordable so that true fan can see their favourite band and artist . I urge my hon . friend to move ahead swiftly to bring it in . I be very grateful to my hon . friend , and I commend he too , because he have be work on this issue for quite a long time — when he be shadow sport Minister , it be one of the thing that he be keen for we to progress . I be join by the sport Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , and of course one of the irony be that in some sport , we already implement something remarkably similar , if not tough . it be perfectly legitimate for we to be move in a direction that put those sector on an equal footing . I take my hon . friend ' s point about speed . I recognise that I do not respond to the question from the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) about when we will get action . I very much hope that if we get a clear answer from the consultation , we will be able to come forward with plan as a matter of urgency . there must be a King ' s Speech come along some time soon . continue the Cyndi Lauper theme , I be sure the Minister agree that we have to see these tout in their true colour . the fact be that they will try to find way around these eminently praiseworthy proposal . let we imagine that the Minister get his cap in place ; what be to stop an undercover operation go ahead with a large number of individual try to make a small number of sale each on a website such as eBay ? how would the Minister be able to enforce the cap in a situation like that ? it be not just about the cap — we be consult on several element , one of which be how many ticket an individual seller should be able to purchase . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Meriden and Solihull East , could have argue that some of this be already deal with in the legislation , but I would argue that the legislation be not clear enough , which be one of the thing we need to tackle . if we look at all the different bit of legislation we have accumulate over the year , every time there have be a Bill that my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South have be able to table an amendment to , with support from some magnificent people in the House of Lords , it have be possible to get thing through . that be why we may need to do quite a bit of rationalisation of the legislation in this field , but the right hon . Gentleman make a good point : we will always have to keep ahead of the game . I be delighted by the Minister ' s statement today . this consultation will be welcome by the entire co - operative movement , which have be campaign to keep fan at the heart of music . access to culture be such an important part of our country , and our movement stand as the party of the consumer . do the Minister agree that action such as take this consultation forward be the good way to extend access to culture for real fan ? yes , I do . incidentally , there be another point on which we want to make real progress . we must have not only the massive gig that everybody love go to — where you can celebrate with thousand — but very intimate gig . one of the most special moment be see a band perform first in a tiny venue of just 100 or 150 people , and then see they in a massive venue , perform at Glastonbury or whatever it might be . we need to look at the whole of the music system in the UK . that mean a creative education for every single child — wouldn ' t it be good if every child have the opportunity to go to live music at least once a year , as well as the opportunity to learn a musical instrument or learn how to sing ? those be all part of the whole - of - music approach that we need in this country . I warmly congratulate the Government on bring forward these measure , which I wholeheartedly support . I be very surprised by the response from the Conservative Front Bench ; I think they have get catch up in some garbled , ill - inform nonsense , but I really hope that in time , they come on board with these proposal , because they be important . for too long , music fan have be rip off and abuse by the tout and scalper , who have be nothing other than parasite on our live music sector , so I wholeheartedly welcome these proposal . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) , as well as the FanFair Alliance — which have be campaign on this issue for such a long time — and campaign newspaper such as the Daily Record that regularly feature large article on it . while we have this in place , I would like to hear more about the proposal on dynamic pricing , which I think be the issue that perplex music fan more than anything else over the summer . we now have some sort of routeway towards resolve ticket touting , but we need to hear more about exactly what the Minister will do about dynamic pricing , because that be something that need fix . it be always a delight to be able to please the hon . gentleman — as I think he would confess , that be not an event that happen very often on the Government Benches . I be not sure whether any ticket be available for his music gig , or whether they be sell at multiple price , but he have be a doughty campaigner for the creative industry over the year , and I welcome that . we be very clear in the general election about what we be go to do in relation to the primary issue . we do not make any commitment around dynamic pricing , which be why we be offer a much more tentative approach to that issue . we also know that there be form of dynamic pricing that work extremely well ; when a person buy a last - minute theatre ticket , that be a form of dynamic pricing , because you want to get the theatre full at the end of the day . we want to tread a bit more carefully in that area , which be why we be launch a call for evidence , rather than present our proposal at this stage . if the hon . Gentleman have get good idea about what we should do , my door be open — do come and talk to we . I be make up at today ' s statement , especially as someone with a music industry background and as a big fan . dynamic pricing make headline last summer when Oasis ' s fan be hit by price that be two , three , or even four time the face value of the ticket after they have queue for hour and hour . when they get to the payment stage , they have a matter of minute to decide whether they want those ticket . John Robb , the music writer , say that dynamic pricing be " exploit people ' s excitement in the bad possible way " after Ticketmaster behave no well than the tout they claim to protect fan from . I welcome the call for evidence about this practice , but can the Minister assure I that it will lead to real action so that fan be no long rip off by surge pricing ? just about the first thing my hon . Friend say to I when she collar I in the Lobby after we have win the general election be , " you be go to do something about ticket tout , aren ' t you ? " , so I be glad I be able to please she this afternoon . one of the bad thing that can happen — I be sure every member of Oasis would say this — be for everybody who have go through the process of buy ticket to be say , " Don ' t look back in anger . " [ hon . member : " oh ! " ] sorry , I have to work really hard to fit that in , but it be a true point . we want the process of buy a ticket to be fair , open and transparent , and for the person buy the ticket to feel that they have get a sane and sensible deal , rather than that they have be rip off . the problem with the present situation be that all too often , people feel that they have just be rip off , which undermine the joy and passion of the event . every time the Government propose something that be in the interest of the consumer and the public , I be so excited , so I welcome the Minister ' s statement . as well as dynamic ticket pricing , where the price of the ticket itself fluctuate — always in the wrong direction — there be high and disproportionate service fee , which can also become high during peak time . do the Minister agree that there be a clear need for transparent pricing for consumer , so that they can see a breakdown before they press " buy " ? I agree 100 % with the hon . Gentleman about the fee issue . there be an argument that it be already deal with by section 230 of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 , but that be why we be consult on that specific issue . to the ticket tout who have complain about this , I say that in the word of the musical " Chicago " , they have it come — they only have themselves to blame . I thank the Minister for his very positive statement , and I believe everybody in the Chamber will be encourage by what he have announce . he be surely familiar with the Oasis lyric , which I promise not to sing : " and so Sally can wait , she know it ' s too late as we ' re walk on by . " unfortunately for many fan , wait be not an option , and they be leave with the painful reality that dynamic pricing make their wallet melt away . give report that fan be subject to inflate price through in - demand dynamic pricing , with ticket jump from less than £ 150 to over £ 350 in moment , how will the Minister ensure that ticket seller — and event organiser in particular — comply with the propose consumer protection law , especially those require transparency in pricing ? I be grateful for the hon . member ' s comment , and for his musical rendition . he do not put it into song , for which I should probably be grateful as well , but — I do not know — maybe he have a beautiful high tenor voice . one of my anxiety about this whole situation be that there have not be very many prosecution , which be perhaps because the law have be too complicated . however , it may also be because trading standard department have really struggle in recent year , because they be subject to local authority budget cut . that be why this , for I , be part of the whole of what the Government be try to do , which be to put our public service back on a much more solid and secure footing and to bring in legislation that stand up for consumer . however , I be grateful to the hon . member , and if he have any particular idea on how we could specifically ensure that there be proper enforcement , not least in Northern Ireland , I would be really grateful to hear from he . develop AI Capacity and Expertise in UK Defence Defence Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Defence Committee . Mrs Emma Lewell - Buck will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of her statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question , not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee member , not the relevant Minister . Front Benchers may also take part in the questioning . I call Mrs Emma Lewell - Buck . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to present this report on behalf of the Defence Committee . it be important at the outset to say that our report be not focus on the ethical question that use artificial intelligence in defence raise . that be because noble Lords in the other place complete a very in - depth Committee report on AI in weapon system prior to our inquiry . in that report , they rightly address issue of safety , compliance with international law and the need for a human in the loop . it be also important to say that the key defence document we refer to throughout our report be produce under the previous Government . however , we have not receive any indication from the current Government that they will be make any significant or major departure from those document . our focus be on try to understand what the Ministry of Defence be do in this area and how it can develop a successful defence AI sector in the UK . since 2018 , AI have be appear increasingly in defence document , as well as be speak about by Ministers and senior military figure . the defence artificial intelligence and autonomy unit and the defence AI centre have since come into being , and the defence artificial intelligence strategy be publish in 2022 . our strong research pedigree in computer science and the availability of compute power could put the UK at a strong advantage , and pillar 2 of our AUKUS partnership continue to present opportunity for work with our ally and for interoperability . despite that , we find that , overall , there be a " say - do gap " where the Department be identify the right priority , but have be unable to say what step it will take to achieve they . Rhetoric do not match reality . this leave we behind our ally and disadvantage when it come to our adversary . similarly , we consider the Department ' s aim to be ai - ready problematic . technology be evolve at such a rapid pace , and the MOD will never be sufficiently ai - ready . instead , it should aim to be " ai - native " , with AI view no long as a niche add - on , but as a core component run right through defence . this will take leadership , cultural and practical change . AI be a general - purpose technology , and although we do not have a clear idea of the size of our defence AI sector , we do know that it be young and underdeveloped , and that many of the company that will supply defence in the future be likely to cut across the civilian and military sector . for the MOD to give to these less traditional company and investor any confidence and incentivise they to do business with the MOD , it need to be clear about what it want . it need to show more flexibility , be less prescriptive in requirement , address delay in security clearance and fully embrace the recommendation from the Haythornthwaite review about how the bright mind can zig - zag between the military and the commercial civilian sector . on new capability , the MOD be not comfortable with rapid change , risk or experimentation , but that be exactly how our tech company and start - up operate . the MOD ' s exist approach of contracting with prime and spend 10 to 15 year build a ship , tank or aircraft to exquisite specification just do not cut it in an increasingly datum and software - drive environment . it be welcome that the global combat air programme be be design with open - system architecture , mean that software capability can be plug into and take out of the hardware , and the new spiral model of overall defence procurement in the integrated procurement model be welcome , too . however , our Committee find no evidence of fundamental change across the organisation . if small , innovative company be to engage with the MOD , the MOD must be a well customer . key to develop our defence AI ecosystem be the digital infrastructure , yet the Department ' s plan for a digital backbone be behind schedule . data collection , labelling and sharing , which be all key to train defence AI model , must be improve . clarity of leadership and responsibility be also need . the defence artificial intelligence centre be head by a one - star officer , and we remain unclear on where the centre be base . there be fragmentation across the MOD , as the frontline command of each service have individual responsibility for AI development , which cause confusion and duplication . Ukraine have show we that AI be change the battlefield . AI have the potential to transform UK defence , from the back office to the frontline . in such a rapidly develop environment , we can not predict what will come next , but we know for certain that our ally and adversary be use and develop AI for military advantage . we remain hopeful that through the strategic defence review , and the Government ' s focus today on AI , and by adopt our recommendation , the Department will start to turn its rhetoric into reality , so that it do more than it say . I want to acknowledge what a team effort produce this report have be . I thank the previous Committee ; many of its member become firm friend of mine , despite our political difference , and I dearly miss they . I also thank the new Committee , which have work very hard to finalise this report . I thank everyone who have engage with we , include the MOD and the previous Minister , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , who be on the Opposition Front Bench . I also thank our excellent Committee staff , especially George James , who manage the inquiry , and Professor Kenneth Payne , our very knowledgeable expert adviser to the inquiry . I look forward to take any question from right hon . and hon . member , and I sincerely hope that they like the answer that they get . I call the shadow Minister . this be an excellent report , and I be very grateful to the hon . member for recognise my role , and for her comment about the integrate procurement model and the work that we do in government . she be right that this area of technology be change at extraordinary speed , and it be have a real impact on the live battle - front in Ukraine . I make two point . first , the hon . Member say that the House of Lords Committee look at the ethical issue . I would urge the Commons Committee not to ignore those , because my view be that we need to retain maximum freedom of operation and not be bind by , for example , new definition of autonomy that may limit our military capability . secondly , the hon . Lady make a very good point about small and medium - sized enterprise in the civil area that be not involve in defence . we all agree that we want to get they more involve in defence , but may I ask she to look at how we share information , particularly if it be secret , with sme , as well as with prime ? we be make progress on that when I be at the Department . perhaps , with the Committee ' s help , we can look at case study of civil company that have successfully get into the defence sector by have a strong link with the centre of the MOD . I could not agree with the hon . member more . a section in our report address in detail sme and their engagement with the Department , and we should carry forward the work that he do in government , especially on the integrate procurement model . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . I place on record my gratitude to my hon . friend for chair the Sub - Committee , and I thank member of the previous Defence Committee , and Committee staff , for all their hard work on our report on artificial intelligence — a matter integral to our nation ' s defence . while I welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement today about embrace AI in government , do my hon . friend agree that there seem to be a chasm between the Ministry of Defence ' s rhetoric and the reality ? in practice , AI be still treat as a novelty , rather than a fundamental part of the MOD toolkit . I thank the Chair of our Committee for his question , and for his work in get our report to publication . he be right to highlight the gap between what the MOD want to do and how it plan to achieve it . that run through our entire report and be something that the MOD need to get a handle on . I be sure that he would agree that by implement our recommendation , the Department can move to a position where AI be thread through the organisation , as oppose to be a niche add - on , or a novelty . military history book be full of example of the difficulty that defence scientist have in sell their revolutionary idea to military chief and civil servant . give the nebulous nature of artificial intelligence , be the Sub - Committee satisfy that there be a specialist cadre in the Ministry of Defence that be intellectually equip to make appropriate assessment of scheme that be put forward for new weapon system ? one difficulty be that not all the information that the Sub - Committee want be readily available to we , and we still do not have a clear picture of exactly what be happen in the MOD when it come to artificial intelligence . we recommend more clarity , and that the Department be clear about the skillset it need and the gap that exist . we should look to implement the recommendation of the Haythornthwaite review , so that those with the knowledge and expertise can zig - zag in and out of the Department . I commend the work of the Defence Committee . the report be important , particularly give the news that have come from Ukraine in the past few year , and the way that conflict have develop . one thing that come out clearly be the need to be on the cutting edge of all this . the UN declare 2025 to be the international year of quantum science and technology . do the development that my hon . friend be talk about lend additional credence to the importance of that statement , and of bring those cut - edge development to our defence capability ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . today ' s announcement from the Government have show that they be take AI and its potential very seriously . as our report show , there be step that they can take when it come to defence to ensure that the Department be more AI native and have AI run through it . throughout the decade — at least since 1945 — the development of defence technology have be bind by international law . I understand that the Defence Committee have take the view that it will not be inform by law or ethic , but I wonder whether work will be do in future to bring together the House of Lords report from 2023 and the work that the Sub - Committee have do so expertly . the hon . member be right to raise that point , as we very much take note of the noble Lords ' report , which be reference in our inquiry ' s final report . we urge progress on AI in defence , but on the understanding that the progress be always in line with a strong ethical and accountable framework , and that there be a human in the loop . I thank the hon . member for the report , and it be helpful to understand the point about the Lords report . do she know when the Government will outline the timetable for that report on the ethical and moral issue to be consider , and for those issue to be incorporate in Government policy ? how effectively will the MOD work with international company — this be obviously an incredibly complex area — to ensure that the security risk be massively reduce ? the hon . Member ask I for answer that be outside the scope of our report . she also ask question of the government ; I be speak on behalf of our Committee , and it be way above my pay grade to answer for our Government . however , she raise an important point about the Lords report . I believe that the previous Government respond to the report from the Lords , but as with everything in defence , what we do will be in line with what our ally and NATO do . we will continue to work with our ally on the global combat air programme and the AUKUS partnership . everything we do , we do together , not in isolation . I congratulate my hon . friend on an excellent report , and on the leadership that she have show throughout — in deal with witness , consider the evidence that come forward , and compile the report . as she say , she work closely with , and be give great help , by our excellent staff on the Defence Committee . I serve on that Committee in the last Parliament , and it be probably the good Committee that I have be on , thank to the commitment and knowledge of defence issue of those involve , include my hon . friend ; we be able to put that to good use . she say that despite difference between party , the Committee be unite in take issue forward and hold Ministers to account . I be sure the new Committee will do exactly the same . it be great that the new Chair be present to support my hon . friend , and ensure that we get the report out in a timely manner . my hon . friend probably know what issue I will raise . first , on AI , the defence field be move so rapidly ; it change almost by the week . do she agree that it be important that the MOD and those involve in defence harness that change quickly , keep on top of it , and ensure that we lead the field in AI , rather than follow all the time ? also , I recall a discussion that we have about the importance of harness the talent and potential of sme and start - up . we should ensure that the UK use that potential for the benefit of our armed force , to develop the good possible defence for our country . I would be grateful if my hon . friend respond to those point . I thank my hon . friend for his comment and all his help on the Committee . it be a joy to be once again serve on the Defence Committee with he . he be correct to say that AI be move rapidly , and the MOD need to harness it quickly , because our adversary be . we know from open source datum that we can not allow ourselves to be behind the curve on this . sme have a particular mindset , as my hon . friend will know . they be happy to have that " fail first " , experimental mindset that the MOD be often not use to . our report highlight that significant cultural change and leadership be need in the MOD to get it to a position where sme can work well with it for the benefit of our entire defence AI ecosystem . Bill Presented Rural Crime ( Strategy ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Ben Maguire present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to establish a task force to produce a strategy for tackle rural crime ; to require the Secretary of State to implement the strategy ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time Friday 4 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 158 ) . Backbench Business Hospice and Palliative Care I beg to move , that this House have consider hospice and palliative care . first , I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant time to support this important debate , and I thank colleague from across the House for support my application and join I today to discuss a subject that , to use an old clich é — but in no more apposite a context — be truly a matter of life and death . when this House debate the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill last November , the crisis in hospice funding and concern over the provision of palliative care be a constant refrain in the subtext of many of the speech from supporter and opponent of the Bill . as someone who enter the Chamber that morning undecided as to how I would vote , I become increasingly convinced throughout the five hour of powerful argument and testimony that no matter what the House decide , the time have come to address hospice funding for the provision of palliative care head on , for death be as much a part of life as live . while as parliamentarian we readily focus on what make a good life , we rarely consider what make a good death . it be possible to have a good death , as I see with my mother , who pass away in comfort at the beautiful Arthur Rank hospice in Cambridge , and with my father , who die in the exceptional palliative care facility at Bellevue hospital in New York . as a family , we remember those time as sad , but cathartic , with moment of laughter as well as tear , as when my father — somewhat confuse towards the end of life , but with a glint still in his eye — ask , as I sit next to he stroke his forehead , whether I be a lady friend . sadly , however , too many in our society do not experience a good death , and we need to start ask why . the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) bravely take on that challenge with her private Member ' s Bill , and I hope that this debate will afford we an opportunity to build on those foundation . do the hon . Member agree that the renew focus on the hospice and palliative care sector be extremely welcome and overdue ? do he agree that the extra £ 100 million of investment show how seriously this Government be take the issue , show that people approach the end of life be fully support in whatever choice they make ? I agree with the hon . Lady , and I will be come to those point . today be not about rehash the argument make that Friday , but to allow Members time to discuss and reflect on this separate , but inextricably link subject . it be not the last word on hospice and palliative care , but an important step in forge a consensus that I hope will unite we , no matter where we ultimately stand on assist dying . I begin by reference the crisis in hospice funding . before I proceed far , I echo what the hon . member for Spen Valley say and thank the Health Secretary for the £ 100 million in capital and digital money he announce last month . it will make a profound difference to the sector ' s current financial position . I have be ask by individual hospice and Hospice UK to convey their genuine gratitude . in a similar vein , the Government ' s recently announce commitment to extend the child ' s hospice grant by a further year be deeply appreciated and equally vital to maintain level of service in this heartrending , but profoundly important part of the hospice movement . however , these be only short - term fix and fail to provide the long - term funding and certainty critical to secure the future of the hospice movement . currently , only one third of hospice funding be provide by the Government , with the rest come from charitable source . that leave hospice vulnerable to increase cost pressure , as can be see in a recent Hospice UK survey , which find that at least 20 % of hospice have cut service in the past year or be plan to do so . Becca Trower , the clinical director of the wonderful St Raphael ' s hospice , which provide excellent care to resident in my Wimbledon constituency , be unambiguous when she tell I : " we have a funding crisis and we need to protect our hospice . " last year , that mean that St Raphael ' s be force to strip £ 1 million from its £ 6 . 5 million budget by end its hospice at home service that provide vital care , advice and support to patient and carer in their own home . it be a virtual ward , in fact , but not one that fit within the NHS definition of such , which would have attract the separate integrate care board funding available for such initiative . in just one month , the cut to the service directly impact 26 patient , many of whom spend their last day take up valuable hospital bed , die in the one place they do not want to die and put further pressure on the NHS . when the Government be aim to move medicine into the community , it make no sense for hospice to be force into a position that achieve the opposite . that contradiction be mirror in the current funding settlement , where the Government have give with one hand and take with the other by increase employer ' national insurance contribution . the refusal to exempt charity will exacerbate the challenge confront hospice . the amazing Shooting Star child ' s hospice , for example , provide wonderful support for family in my constituency . it estimate that the change will add another £ 200 , 000 to next year ' s cost base . hospice need certainty . doubt over fund undermine morale and sap energy , make the recruitment and retention of staff another huge issue for the sector . to address these problem , the Government need to introduce a consistent , reliable funding mechanism that reflect the rise cost of care . hospice consequently need to be include within the NHS ' s much - anticipate 10 - year health plan . in parallel , staffing need must be address in the next NHS long - term workforce plan . it should not be forget that hospice provide a variety of service in addition to palliative care , include emotional , psychological and spiritual support , as well as physio and occupational therapy , practical support , complementary therapy , respite care and bereavement service . much of that be beyond the clinical , and not something that the NHS can be expect , nor can afford , to provide . that be why no one I speak to in the hospice movement think that hospice should be subsume within the NHS . they provide a complementary service that extend well beyond the clinical , and to which a charitable funding model be more effective and appropriate . I commend the hon . gentleman on set the scene so well . one of the concern that I and other in the Chamber have be the impact on the worker in hospice . it be not just about the financial implication , which be all part of the overall issue , but burnout . staff be work long hour . they be volunteer in many case , and they do that because it be what they be commit to . do he share my concern that burnout in hospice care will have an impact on the NHS in the long term ? I agree with the hon . member . we need more palliative care specialist and we need more training , and there be a real danger of burnout . it be not just hospice that provide palliative care . when talk to specialist within and beyond the hospice sector , I have be strike by their commitment to give patient a good death and their frustration that so many do not receive one . a palliative care doctor recently tell the Guardian : " I sometimes see patient … who come into hospital in unspeakable agony and want their life to end . it be not because their pain can not be prevent , but because they be not get the care they need . " a local oncologist tell I : " demand for service be simply outstrip supply . the majority of patient be not get their end of life care wish meet . the specialist palliative care team be very good but there be not enough of they and they do not have adequate resource . " huge regional inequality exist in the provision and quality of service due to the vagary of the current funding model . the Health and Care Act 2022 include for the first time a statutory duty for icb to provide palliative care . however , it do not include a minimum standard of core provision , leave it to what each ICB consider appropriate . freedom of information request submit by Hospice UK in 2023 find that adult hospice funding consequently range from just 23p to £ 10 . 33 per head of population across different icb . for child ' s hospice , the variation be even starker . research from the amazing charity together for short life find that spending per child with a life - limit condition vary from an average of £ 531 in Norfolk and Waveney to just £ 28 in South Yorkshire . on the point about the postcode lottery — an oft - use clich é by politician — I have hear from Hospice UK that , on one occasion , a single gift from a legacy cover the run cost for a hospice in the UK for five year . do my hon . friend agree that that be one of the stark and most extreme illustration of how the current system be so unbalanced and , from one street to the next , leave people with such disparity of access to such an important element of healthcare ? I agree , and I will come to some solution that might address this issue . we must increase the core responsibility of icb in this area . inevitably , much palliative care be provide not by specialist but by generalist , such as GPs , trainee doctor and community nurse for whom care of the dying be not their primary focus . many lack the training , time and resource need to provide what be possible , not through their fault but due to a system that do not regard palliative care as a core function . that be all too evident at the outset of their career , with one medical student tell I : " I only receive 2 mandatory day training on palliative care in my entire degree . this be simply not enough and we need to increase training across the board to ensure patient be give equal access to high - quality care . " since the Shipman case there be unacceptable legal uncertainty , particularly among non - palliative care specialist , about the extent to which analgesic can be give in a sufficient quantity to alleviate pain , even where that might hasten death . the system require a complete overhaul . we need more palliative care specialist and well training for non - specialist , include robust advice on the legality of give sufficient pain relief to alleviate suffering , buttress if necessary and appropriate by more explicit guidance in the Director of Public Prosecutions ' code for Crown prosecutor and the Lord Chief Justice ' s criminal practice direction . icb should be require to provide a minimum level of palliative care as a core function . this would have a transformative effect on how palliative care be fund both within and beyond the hospice sector , rather than leave it to the generosity of particular icb such as South West London and Surrey Heartlands , both of which do all they can to fund local hospice , but within the constraint of a funding model that limit their ability to do so . in conclude , I want to return to where I begin . the debate be a matter of life and death . ensure a good death be important not just for the individual at the end of their life , but for those they leave behind . know that someone pass away peacefully can bring real comfort to those mourn their loss . I would like to end with the word of Fleur , whose son receive end of life care at the wonderful Shooting Star hospice . she say : " Hospices be not just place where life come to a close … they be place where those leave behind learn how to keep on living . when my son Toby die , our hospice didn ' t just care for he — it care for all of we , to give we a future not define by trauma , but by love , resilience , and hope . month later , when my daughter have to step back into a hospital — the place where we have first be tell we would lose Toby — she freeze , overwhelm by fear and grief . when she return to the hospice , the very place where Toby have take his last breath , she run inside , kick off her shoe , and throw herself into the arm of a nurse . " that be what it be possible to achieve . I hope the Government be listen . it be an absolute honour to follow the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) , who make a wonderfully poignant speech . I thank he for secure this debate . as the Member of Parliament for Huddersfield , I have have the privilege of witness at first hand the exceptional work of hospice such as forget I not child ' s hospice and Kirkwood . these organisation be lifeline for individual and family face life - limit condition . I welcome the recent announcement of the expansion of hospice funding , which be a crucial step in address the financial challenge that these vital organisation face . hospice such as forget I not and Kirkwood do not just offer medical care but provide emotional , psychological and practical support to patient and their family . they ensure dignity and compassion at every step of their journey , address the full spectrum of need for those they care for . Steve , a local dad whose son , 10 - year - old Ethan , receive support from the Forget I not hospice , speak of its life - change work for Ethan and the whole family . Steve say : " when he ' s here he ' s comfortable , it ' s a lovely environment . it ' s not clinical and he ' s treat like a normal person . " they be not just care provider but community builder , offer space of comfort and support during life ' s most difficult time . Huddersfield University be lead on joint work with local hospice about research and clinical practice in end - of life - care . it include work with Kirkwood hospice to create a postgraduate certificate in end of life care , the first of its kind in the UK to link with a hospice . while I be sit next to my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , I must pay tribute to how she conduct the debate on her Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill . there be no doubt that she have move the debate on funding for hospice care , and I thank she very much . the expansion of hospice funding be a significant and welcome development , but we must acknowledge that many hospice , include those in my constituency , still face immense financial pressure . forget I not child ' s hospice recently launch an urgent appeal to address a £ 1 million funding gap . the expansion of funding must be part of a large , ongoing strategy to ensure that long - term commission funding for hospice be part of the 10 - year NHS plan . St Leonard ' s hospice in my constituency lovingly care for my uncle with extraordinary compassion last year in his final week . I hear my hon . friend ' s call for hospice in her constituency but do she agree that , because of their empathy and the important work that they do , we must all campaign for the funding that our hospice desperately need ? I absolutely do . I pass on my condolence to my hon . friend and his family , and pay tribute to the local hospice and the work that it have do to support his family . I want to raise NHS England ' s £ 26 million funding for child ' s hospice — formerly the child ' s hospice grant . traditionally , that funding be distribute centrally by NHS England but last year , as have be mention , it be disseminate by integrate care board . that have cause delay to many child ' s hospice ' access to their funding , include forget I not . it be critical that the funding be ringfence for child ' s hospice , and I hope that the Minister will review whether it can again be centrally distribute , to avoid further delay . the new funding for hospice be an important milestone . I welcome the Government ' s approach and thank the Minister for his work . I know that the hospice sector very much welcome the additional funding , but can it also mark the beginning of further Government support for these essential service ? hospice be an integral part of our healthcare system , and we must ensure they have the resource and support that they need to continue their vital work , include the specialist doctor and nurse that be need in many hospice . through Government action , community support and the tireless effort of hospice staff and volunteer , we can ensure that hospice not only survive but thrive , continue to provide the compassion and dignity that every individual deserve . first , I congratulate the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) on secure this debate . as a member of the Backbench Business Committee , I can tell he he make a very convincing argument for this debate . like other , I suspect , one of my aim this evening be to praise my local hospice , Lindsey Lodge in Scunthorpe and Saint Andrew ' s in Grimsby , which both provide care to my constituent . I have particular affection for St Andrew ' s , as my father pass away in its care , and my mother actually die on the day she be suppose to move in . that be more than 30 year ago ; I have see how they have develop in the year since , and they continue to provide absolutely superb care . of course , demand be increase : demographic have change , and people be live long . hospice do actually ease the burden on the NHS . St Andrew ' s have 133 permanent staff , but more than 400 volunteer . as it happen , I visit St Andrew ' s last Friday — the meeting be schedule some week ago , but it be convenient timing for this debate . I do have a specific question for the Minister relate to St Andrew ' s , which I will come to later . voluntary donation in area such as north - east Lincolnshire be crucial , as they be elsewhere . however , with relatively low income and very low property value , when people leave a legacy of a share in their property , perhaps , that do not realise the same sort of return as it would in many other part of the country . I could provide a whole list of what St Andrew ' s hospice deliver ; instead , I will give one or two significant statistic . it deliver more than 3 , 000 adult in - patient bed night and 694 child ' s hospice at home session ; it have physiotherapy , creative therapy and social work contact ; it provide spiritual care for its patient and their family . the cost of operate all part of the charity in 2024 - 25 be more than £ 18 , 000 a day ; only four year ago , it be £ 14 , 000 a day — a significant rise , as member will appreciate . some 80 % of that cost have to be earn or raise by the hospice , which , in time of economic challenge , be increasingly difficult . its statutory income for ' 24 - ' 25 be expect to be only 21 . 5 % of its total income . currently , for every £ 1 of statutory income , St Andrew ' s have to raise £ 4 . 60 , pose a considerable financial challenge for the hospice , the volunteer and the fundraiser . as we know , healthcare inflation run ahead of general inflation , and hospice have to try to keep pace with statutory salary increase relate to the national minimum wage . as with the social enterprise that provide social care in north - east Lincolnshire , hospice staff do not automatically get the increase that go to NHS worker , and the gap be inevitably widen . I raise this matter with the Secretary of State at health question last week , and I think it will be a grow problem with further nhs wage increase later this year , as the gap between NHS worker and those provide care in hospice and social enterprise widen ; it will be about 10 % by the time the next increase come . needless to say , that be cause difficulty for those employee . I have a specific question for the Minister , which I will write to he about in the next day or two — I do not expect he to have all the detail of St Andrew ' s in his pack . St Andrew ' s get only 21 % of its income through statutory contribution , which I understand be about 12 % below the national average ; this have come about because of a whole series of historical adjustment . my plea to the Minister be that St Andrew ' s be bring up to the national average as soon as possible . I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure this important debate . as a nurse for 25 year and as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on hospice and end of life care , hospice and palliative care have always be at the heart of my work , both in this Chamber and in my community . I start by acknowledge the fantastic decision by the Government to boost investment in hospice by £ 100 million — the large funding uplift in a generation . that be a clear sign that the Government be listen to the hospice sector and respond with action , not just word . however , this uplift must be the beginning and not the end . this new money will not last forever . we must now take concrete step to ensure that the awful condition in the hospice sector that we inherit be never repeat . it be worth note that while the independent commission on palliative and end of life care recently create by my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) be welcome , it will mainly be about delivery and not fund . we simply can not wait for a palliative care taskforce to complete its report ; that could take month , which this sector can not spare . in my role , I hear time and again about postcode lottery and the chronic lack of funding that plague this vital sector . through no fault of its own , John Taylor hospice , which do fantastic work in my constituency , be face a crisis in funding ; it have have to announce redundancy and a reduction in in - patient bed due to the funding shortfall . that story be be repeat all over the country — I be sure many member in this Chamber have a similar situation that they could share . hospice care still rely heavily on charity , bake sale and donation to fund much of the work that support family during their most vulnerable moment . that must change . this postcode lottery not only be unfair , but undermine the principle of universal healthcare . we can not allow end of life care to depend on where someone live and how much money they have . hospice across the UK provide care and support to 300 , 000 people every year . they be an absolutely essential part of our healthcare system , although they be in the charity sector . every single day , hospice face rise cost of energy , food and medicine ; every single day , they deliver exceptional care , even as pressure mount ; and every single day , they battle deficit that threaten their ability to continue . despite all those challenge , our hospice save the NHS million each year by alleviate pressure on hospital and provide community - base care . however , their ability to continue this vital work be at risk , and they need long - term sustainable support . we need to face the future head on and fix their funding model permanently . while I absolutely understand that hospice be under pressure , the integrate care board that fund they be similarly under a great deal of pressure due to year - on - year budget reduction from NHS England . ask icb to find extra money without it be allocate centrally as revenue be impossible . death be a part of life , as the hon . member for Wimbledon say , and as we all know . nobody would say we should neglect healthcare , so why be we neglect the hospice sector by not secure a sustainable funding formula ? to truly address the gap in our system , we need a sustainable funding model that ensure hospice can meet grow demand without be force to cut service . the people of this country deserve a future where every family , no matter their circumstance , can access the high quality of end of life care without worry , one where hospice care be not a postcode lottery but a promise . let we turn this moment into an opportunity . we must act urgently to implement and improve a sustainable funding package for hospice and palliative care . with constructive action , we can build a system that uplift the most vulnerable among we , strengthen the NHS and show the good of what we can achieve as a nation . let we ensure that the legacy of this debate be not one of uncertainty , but one of determination and passion , and that when we see the 10 - year plan , hospice and palliative care will be fully fund go forward . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure this debate and I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant it . as he state , the debate have take on an add salience since the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) bring forward her Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill on assist dying . I hope we can all agree that regardless of what happen to the passage of the Bill , there be an urgent need to address hospice and palliative care . I want to touch briefly on two point : on child ' s hospice funding and support ; and , more broadly , on inequality in access to palliative care , which relate to the concern many of we have about that Bill . on child ' s hospice , I be very proud to have Shooting Star child ' s hospice in my constituency in Hampton , to which my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon refer . as he state , as well as serve child and young people and their family in my constituency , it actually serve a very wide area of south - west London , west London and all of Surrey . it provide care and support to child with life - limit condition , respite care , family support and , importantly , a bereavement service . from talk to the mother of a teenager who die very unexpectedly from an asthma attack in my constituency , I know that her young teenage friend have be very well support by Shooting Star as they have be grieve their friend who so unexpectedly and tragically lose her life . I want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to Shooting Star for its incredible work . like other hospice , Shooting Star rely on the goodwill and generosity of so many in our community and beyond , skydive , run , donate clothe and toy to its shop . as my hon . Friend point out , it now face a £ 200 , 000 bill as a result of the employer ' national insurance rise . while I welcome the Health Secretary ' s announcement prior to Christmas to renew the child ' s hospice grant , I reiterate its question which be echo by my hon . friend : be this a long - term commitment and not just for the next financial year , and will it be ringfence ? it have tell I time and again that it can not plan for the future if it be live hand to mouth , year to year in term of recruit staff and put service in place . hospice funding be so variable . as we have hear , together for short life report that NHS funding in 2022 - 23 for child vary by as much as £ 483 per child . Hospice UK make a freedom of information request which find , shockingly , that 40 % of icb have absolutely no idea how much they be spend on child ' s palliative care . we need to hold our icb much more accountable for child ' s and adult palliative care . together for short life also highlight a £ 295 million spending gap in NHS spending on child ' s palliative care , when compare against National Institute for Health and Care Excellence standard . that bring I to my second substantive point , on the variability of palliative care with particular regard to how it compare to national standard . Marie Curie estimate that one in four people who could benefit from specialist palliative end of life care do not receive it . People be more likely to get good palliative care , frankly , if they be rich , more educate , white and young . the inequality across our society in access to palliative care be grow and demand be grow , too . I have a number of conversation with the hon . member for Spen Valley . these inequality be one of many reason why I really struggle and could not support her Bill on Second Reading . they really , really concern I . back in 2011 — get on for 14 year ago — NICE recommend that there should be a designated palliative care advice line out of hour implement in every area of the country , but only one in three area offer that service . that show we just how poor we be at put in place what we have already be tell need to be provide so that people can die a good death . if that happen in any other area of care , particularly in cancer , there would , rightly , be outrage that we be not implement nice recommendation . the 2024 Marie Curie " Better end of Life " report say that large number of people be struggle to access service . there be late recognition of their need and poor communication . it find that the impact on carer of poor end of life care be profound . the physical and emotional toll that it take on carer leave one carer say : " the overall experience be that no one really care . " when we be at our most vulnerable at end of life and our loved one be also struggle , we deserve so much well . we need far great investment in palliative care and hospice care . I urge the Minister to take genuine action to address both the geographic disparity and the deep inequality that exist in access palliative care . we have a moral imperative , particularly if the assist die Bill make progress . we can not be in a position where assist death be available universally on the NHS to those identify in the Bill , but access to good palliative care be not . that be what grate with I most and why I could not walk through the Aye Lobby that day . I urge the Minister and the Bill Committee to ensure that duty be write into law so that there be genuine choice at the end of life . whether the Bill pass or not , we need to see much great action on good palliative care . I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure this important debate and for his passionate contribution . it be shock that , on average , only one third of hospice funding be provide by government , with the rest come from charitable donation . rise cost , inconsistent income and a shortage of state funding have leave the hospice sector in a precarious position . indeed , many have have to cut back on the service they can offer and be struggle to meet grow need . a recent meeting of the all - party parliamentary group on hospice and end of life care make for a sobering experience for all the mps present , because every representative from the hospice sector outline their fear around the future . I be bless to have both Claire House and Zoe ' s Place child ' s hospice in my constituency of Liverpool West Derby , but we witness first - hand last year the seriousness of the situation for hospice with the threaten closure of Zoe ' s Place , which rock we all to the core in my great city . it be unthinkable that something so precious should be lose , but , due to the lack of fund , it be go to happen . however , the community of Liverpool and beyond rise to the challenge by raise an incredible £ 5 million in 30 day to ensure that this amazing place could remain open . while I have the chance , I want to thank every single individual and organisation who work relentlessly to make this happen : without they all , the city of Liverpool would have lose Zoe ' s Place . there be so many that I could name , but let I thank the Steve Morgan Foundation , the 64 Trust and TJ Morris for underpin this remarkable community effort . they should not have have to do this . I be pleased , then , that in December the Government recognise the crisis face by hospice and commit £ 126 million to the sector , with £ 100 million of one - off funding and a one - year extension of the child ' s hospice grant , but this be still only a stick plaster . hospice need consistent , reliable funding that accurately reflect the cost of care and their value in society to be able to meet the grow demand for palliative and end of life care , to ensure that people have the good possible experience at the end of their life , and to prevent future funding crisis . hospice sector leader have estimate that the need for palliative care in the UK will increase by 25 % over the next 25 year , and it be clear that long - term reform of the hospice funding model be necessary to ensure that this demand can be meet . that be why I back the call from Hospice UK for the Government to commit themselves to a long - term reform of hospice funding in their 10 - year plan for the NHS . I have a couple of question for the Minister , who have be superb in support I over Zoe ' s Place . will the Government ensure that the confirm £ 26 million NHS England funding for child ' s hospice for 2025 - 26 be ringfence , distribute centrally , and increase in line with inflation in subsequent year , and do the Minister recognise the strong preference among child ' s hospice for that £ 26 million to be distribute as a centrally manage and ringfence grant rather than be distribute via integrate care board ? without ongoing Government support and a fresh funding model , what nearly happen to Zoe ' s Place in Liverpool will happen elsewhere . hospice will undoubtedly close down . the problem be systemic , and it will take Government action to fix that . the city of Liverpool rise to the challenge to save Zoe ' s Place ; now this place have to rise to the challenge as well , and give all hospice the funding that they need to survive . this can not wait , because all who rely on these incredible service do not have time on their side . let I first pay tribute to the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure this important debate , and for his heartfelt contribution . I imagine that there be no one in this House , or even across these island , whose life have not be touch by hospice care , and I want to pay a personal tribute to my niece , Dr R ó be í n Etchells , who work in this field . recently the House have what be by all account a respectful , informed and emotional debate on the concept of assist dying , thank to the effort of the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) . perversely , this Government have introduce additional employer national insurance contribution charge on the independent hospice sector , which can only be describe as an attack , an assault on the very concept of assist dying as we currently deliver it — for that be what hospice care be and do , and what other who deliver palliative care in the independent sector within the community do . in Scotland one of the lead provider of such care , both in residential setting and in the community — within people ' s home — be Marie Curie . it operate at least two residential service and community care in almost every local authority area in Scotland . here I declare an interest as a proud supporter of Marie Curie , and as someone who have help to raise significant fund for it . it do wonderful work , provide skilled care and brighten the life of patient as they face the prospect of their last week , day and hour . ask any family who have benefit from this support ; I defy anyone to find a critic . of course I understand that the Government must balance their book and that public sector pay rise must be fund , but the failure to offer mitigation in key area of these self - same public sector service be misguided , ill - inform , clumsy and counterproductive . " where will we find the money for these service ? " , Ministers will cry , but they know that there be alternative . in their populist haste to win the trust of the electorate , they rashly promise not to increase income tax . they should look at Scotland , where those with the broad shoulder pay a little more , where in every tax bracket more people be come to pay their taxis in Scotland every year , where 60 % of taxpayer pay less than their counterpart in the rest of this disunited kingdom , and where the Government responsible for this alleged mismanagement have enjoy public support for close to 20 year and continue to do so . we in the Scottish National party estimate that if the UK Government have match the scottish tax band , they could have raise £ 16 billion . in the recently announce Scottish Budget , it be encouraging to see that the Scottish Government commit themselves to increase hospice funding by £ 4 million , and to provide additional funding for hospice staff to match NHS pay award . to I , that be the difference between the Scottish and UK government . while the UK Government hike national insurance on employer and vote against amendment to exempt hospice from that hike , the Scottish Government increase hospice funding , and put more money in the pocket of hospice healthcare worker . like other scottish mps , probably , I receive a heartfelt plea from child ' s Hospices Across Scotland . if the Minister have read it , he would know how desperate the situation be . I implore the Government to think again , to engage with the Scottish Government to ascertain the cost of mitigation for hospice and palliative care service provider and other , and to provide the same mitigating support that have be give to the NHS and other public service in Scotland . let I begin by pay tribute , as other have do , to some local hospice . both St Luke ' s and East Cheshire do a spectacular job , and be very well love local institution . I want to say a particular thank you to the staff , of course , but also to the volunteer , and the donor who be literally keep the light on . I greatly welcome the £ 100 million of capital that the Government be provide for hospice , and I ask the Minister to meet I , along with my hon . friend the Members for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) , for Mid Cheshire ( Andrew Cooper ) , and for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) , to discuss a potential local project . on revenue funding , it would be remiss of I not to mention that St Luke ' s and East Cheshire hospice receive 15 % and 16 % respectively of their funding from the NHS . may I ask the Minister to review that , and commit himself to a funding floor that be transparent , fair and consistent across the country ? the quality of the experience that my constituent and their family have at the end of life should not depend on the generosity of individual . I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for speak so eloquently in this important debate , and for secure it . I also thank the Backbench Business Committee . hospice be fantastic place , and all of we in this country be lucky to have they . People go to hospice not to die , but to live the last few day or week of their life . while I be pleased that the assisted die Bill have lead to a renew interest in hospice and palliative care , I be sad that so much of the focus have be on death and the die process , rather than on the broad support and care offer by hospice and palliative care provider — sometimes over many year — to people who have illness that may be life - limiting , and who require certain type of medical intervention to manage their symptom . that be a very important part of the work that hospice and palliative care team do , but as I say , much of the focus be often on the death process , rather than the treatment give to those with chronic condition . speak as a former consultant psychiatrist , it would be remiss of I not to mention the psychological support and mental health intervention by palliative care team and hospice . they be expert in pain relief . palliative care team bring a lot of relief to I when , as a junior doctor , I try to manage very difficult situation in patient care . they be expert in analgesic component . it be important to recognise the palliative care team work in not only hospice but hospital setting and the community to alleviate people ' s symptom . I pay tribute to the fantastic local hospice and care team in the Runnymede and Weybridge constituency , at Woking & Sam Beare hospice , which I have visit and be a fantastic place , and at Princess Alice hospice , base in Esher . we also benefit from Shooting Stars , in the constituency of the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) . I hope to visit that one day . I thank all the team who work in those hospice for deliver care and support , but also for keep the hospice run , and for their vital fundraising . many people support hospice in lot of different way , include through direct donation and organise fundraising event , and I be pleased to have be to fundraise event for Woking & Sam Beare hospice . in fact , a week or two ago , I go to the Chertsey panto , which have be run for 12 year . it support the Woking & Sam Beare hospice . the performance , if one can call they that , have raise £ 60 , 000 . the panto have to be see to be believe ; one will never forget the Chertsey panto after one have go to it . the team who organise and run it be absolutely fantastic . it be a fantastic institution and raise a lot of good money for the hospice . we also have charity shop . there be a great one in Weybridge that have be raise money for quite some time . I pay tribute to everybody for what they do , no matter how big or small , to support our hospice and our palliative care sector . will the hon . member join I in promote a fundraiser be hold by St Wilfrid ' s hospice in Eastbourne , call " I ' m a ceo … get I out of here ! " ? it be try to get lot of local chief executive officer and mp to join the hospice staff in the Sussex jungle , to raise cash for the great work that the hospice do . the hon . Member will have to explain far what be require from those who commit to fundraising in the Sussex jungle . he be right to pay tribute to those do great work in support of our hospice sector . its funding model be part public and part private , which give hospice a great benefit . as they sit outside the NHS , they have great flexibility in how they approach care provision . Woking & Sam Beare hospice be 31 % fund by public sector money . it have 2 , 000 staff and , as I say , deliver fantastic care and support . much of this debate have be about the future of funding for our hospice sector . although I be grateful to the Government for the money and support that they have put forward for hospice , sadly they have give with one hand and take away with the other . the rise in employer ' national insurance contribution be very damaging , and hospice also need to manage increase to staff budget as a result of the Agenda for Change . Marie Curie have say that the national insurance component will cost it roughly £ 2 . 9 million per year . could the Minister say what impact assessment have be do on the national insurance contribution rise for hospice , and on the Agenda for Change ? how many hospice in the UK be run a deficit , and how do he expect that to change over the next year and go forward , as a consequence of the decision make in the Budget ? if there be an opportunity to reverse those decision , do he support do so ? I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure today ' s debate . I be incredibly proud of many thing in Beckenham and Penge , but particularly St Christopher ' s hospice . it be found in 1967 by Dame Cicely Saunders , the founder of the global hospice movement . the movement come about because Dame Cicely , a nurse who be research pain control , believe that more could be do to help people at the end of their life . that include deal with physical symptom and tackle the stigma around painkiller , but also the idea that people should be able to achieve emotional closure through individualised care and support . the assisted die debate have be mention today by member from across the House . I have over 2 , 000 constituent contact I about that debate , and there be roughly a 50 : 50 split between those who support and oppose the Bill , but every single one of they be unite by compassion , and they relay their experience of see people at the end of their life . I pay tribute this evening to a woman I be incredibly fortunate to work for in this place , Dame Tessa Jowell . Tessa be a very good friend , a mentor and an amazing boss . six year ago next week , she make her final speech in Parliament . Tessa be diagnose with a terminal brain tumour . I be with she from her diagnosis through to write the press release on the night she die . she finish her speech in the other place by say : " in the end , what give a life meaning be not only how it be live , but how it draw to a close . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 25 January 2018 ; Vol . 788 , c . 1170 . ] I sincerely believe that . St Christopher ' s hospice give meaning to life as it draw to a close . it do so by take a holistic approach ; it care for a patient ' s physical , spiritual and psychological wellbeing . I have see at first hand the intimate bond and relationship establish between staff , volunteer , patient and family . the hospice be one of the large provider of palliative care education in the world . for all those reason , we in Beckenham and Penge all support St Christopher ' s hospice , which be a huge part of our community . I be fundraise for the hospice long before I become an MP , and I continue to do so . People help in lot of different way , and I want to give a special mention to Penge Fest , which be south - east London ' s answer to Oktoberfest . local business such as Brewery , the Three Hounds and Designer Drapes , organisation include friend of Cator Park and Penge business improvement district , and many more come together with local resident for a day of fun and fundraising that include an oompah band . the event bring Penge high street to a standstill last summer . we will continue to fundraise for St Christopher ' s hospice , but we should not have to do so to pay for the basic . support our hospice benefit everyone , from the NHS to patient , and that be why I welcome the Government ' s announcement , just before Christmas , of an extra £ 100 million in hospice funding , as well as the extension of the child ' s hospice grant . that will ease the strain on hospice and benefit patient , as well as the wide health and care system . however , hospice still face pressure , include increase demand for service , the rise cost of provision and discrepancy in funding across the country , which many member have mention this evening . that be why , as the Minister recognise , hospice must be a key part of the Government ' s plan to shift care into the community , include through the provision of at - home care service . that can ease the acute pressure on the NHS . I invite the Minister to visit St Christopher ' s to see its fantastic work for himself , and to discuss the role of hospice in the Government ' s commitment to ensure that every person have access to high - quality end of life care . I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon again for secure today ' s debate , and the Government for the vital work that they be undertake on this important issue . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure this debate on this important subject . as many people say during the assist die discussion , it be clear that the one thing that everybody have in common be a desire to see well palliative care be make more available across the country . nearly a third of palliative care in Scotland be deliver by charity , and it be the same across the UK . in Scotland , hospice charity provide end of life care to over 20 , 000 people a year , ensure compassion and care at the end of life . this figure be expect to rise by 40 % in the next 15 year . my constituency do not have a hospice within its boundary , but we have many people who work and volunteer in the hospice sector . there be concern that the lack of understanding of the core role and wide scope of palliative care , which have for too long be fund outside the NHS despite be a fundamental aspect of care , have lead to a shortfall in service , include palliative care for child . for too long , hospice have struggle with insufficient funding from consecutive Scottish and UK Governments , with less than half the funding for hospice care come from Government source . while the £ 100 million extra be absolutely welcome , there be still a huge shortfall . the national insurance increase be project to cost scottish hospice an extra £ 2 . 5 million a year , and it come at a time when Marie Curie have highlight that one in four people across the UK be unable to access the necessary support . this increase financial burden will undoubtedly lead to few bed , reduced service and a diminished quality of care for some of our most vulnerable citizen at the end of life . inevitably , this will compound the effect of the staff shortage already be face by the care industry , far strain hospice care provider . where palliative care be available , there be still shortage , especially in psychological support and spiritual care , plus the possibility of serious recruitment problem with any assisted dying provision and in the social care structure that support people in their own home . fourteen hospice care provider have already issue an open letter call for cross - party consensus on sustainable hospice funding . their plea highlight the urgent need for additional support to ensure that these vital institution be not force to ration care or to close their door . I therefore urge the Government again to consider exempt hospice from the recent national insurance hike . this would be a practical step to alleviate the financial strain on hospice and hospice charity . by do so , we would not remove crucial funding from palliative care which , as we have hear , be often raise by charitable donation . we must support palliative care service and ensure that all who need hospice care can access it , allow they dignity and compassion in their end of life care . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak in this important debate , and I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure it . I be grateful that the Government have recognise the immense importance of our hospice ' vital work with the recent announcement of a £ 100 million funding package . my constituency be serve by the extraordinary work of St Catherine ' s hospice . for 40 year , St Catherine ' s have support and lovingly care for individual with a terminal illness and their family , not only on site in Scarborough but in people ' s home in an area of North Yorkshire cover more than 1 , 600 square mile . St Catherine ' s provide an incredible service and , like most hospice around the country , be a charitable , independent organisation largely fund through donation , fundraising and the income from its high street charity shop . I would like to place on record my sincere thank to the wonderful staff , the army of selfless volunteer who give freely of their time , and the generosity of the local people who all ensure that hospice care be available to everyone in the constituency . St Catherine ' s welcome our recent funding announcement , but it be clear that one - off capital injection alone will not address the underlie structural funding deficit . at the heart of the issue be the lack of clarity , equity and accountability in how integrate care board allocate funding . currently , there be no standard formula for funding distribution , which be create disparity across hospice . St Catherine ' s receive approximately 30 % of its funding from the NHS , which be insufficient to meet the grow need of the community . some hospice receive much more , and other slightly less . great transparency and a consistent framework be need to ensure equitable funding across all provider , whether NHS or charity base . this inequity place immense pressure on charitable fundraising and limit what hospice can achieve . St Catherine ' s alone must raise over £ 6 million annually . surely the hospice sector need funding model that align with service outcome . a model similar to the mental health investment standard , mandate a minimum level of investment in palliative and end of life care , could perhaps provide the consistency and accountability that be so urgently need . long - term strategy be equally critical . it be my hope that a 10 - year NHS plan will include detailed guidance for icb on commission hospice care , support by a national funding strategy that reduce reliance on voluntary contribution for essential service . Dame Cicely Saunders , the founder of the modern hospice movement , say : " you matter because you be you . you matter to the last moment of your life " . our hospice strive to make every moment matter for patient and their loved one . we must recognise hospice as integral partner within the healthcare system . by do so , we will ensure that hospice be adequately support to deliver extraordinary care both now and in the future . hospice provide vital care for adult and child with life - limit condition , offer end of life care , pain management and bereavement support to family , but despite be this essential part of healthcare , the hospice sector have challenge due to inadequate Government funding and the taxis that they be put on it , and to workforce shortage . that be all compound by rise cost and economic uncertainty . before I become a Member of Parliament , I have to confess that I have , perhaps fortunately , very little contact with the hospice sector , despite have work in health and social care for the majority of my career and be a local government councillor for 17 year . during the election campaign , I be invite to the Shooting Star child ' s hospice , which have be mention by numerous member across the House . I visit Christopher ' s , which be its in - house care facility in Guildford . I think it be actually in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) — I be sure that the hon . member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) will correct I if I be wrong . there I see the true meaning of selfless day - to - day act of kindness and care , with people look after some of the most vulnerable child and their family . they be the absolute exemplar of people provide die well . I also have the Phyllis Tuckwell hospice in my constituency , which be currently go through a multimillion - pound rebuild fund by donation from people who have either use or care for our hospice in Farnham . when it be open — hopefully by the end of the year — it will provide 18 new palliative care bed alongside rehabilitation and service for the family as well , along with therapy session . both be shine example of what die well should look like . as other hon . member have mention , the one good thing to come out of the assist die debate have be a much great focus in this House , and indeed across the country , on what it mean to die well . I echo some of the comment we have hear : let we get palliative care and hospice care right first , before we start think about whether or not we should be allow people to kill themselves . despite the Government ' s announcement just after Christmas , which I would be churlish not to welcome , the reality be that adult hospice and child ' s hospice be almost totally reliant on charitable donation . the rest come through the integrate care board and , as the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) just mention , it be a complete postcode lottery . I be grateful to the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure the debate , and he mention the significant variation in per person fund depend on where they be in the country and at which hospice they be be treat . the child ' s hospice sector be the stark example , with some place fund just under £ 30 a head , whereas other fund over £ 500 a head . this inequity in care clearly leave some family bad off . the Government really have not make it easy for the hospice sector . it be still not clear to I that the Health Secretary and the Department of Health have any clue that the national insurance contribution change be come down the line . if they be aware , have they allocate this funding beforehand ? be this in their plan , or have they be scrabble to try to make up the difference since they hear this announcement ? despite ask question , I have not hear an answer . we also have not hear whether the Government will cover the cost of the national insurance contribution rise . my personal view be that they must , because the hospice sector , alongside so much of the care sector , be vital not just to the people who use it , but to the wide health economy . underfunde and take money from hospice care will have a significant cost impact on other part of the health service . the hon . Member seem to welcome the additional £ 100 million for the hospice sector and , indeed , the additional investment in the NHS that have come out of the Budget , but he seem not to welcome the way in which that revenue be be raise . how would his party raise the revenue need for the NHS and the hospice sector ? well , the simple fact be that what the hon . member and his front - Bench team be do be ensure that the NHS be bad off , because raise the money will have a great impact on the rest of the service . [ interruption . ] the Minister for Care be shout at I from the Front Bench , and I be sure that , in his response to the debate , he can outline whether he and his team know about the national insurance contribution rise and whether they plan for they . the other part of this be the workforce , who have be touch on briefly . there be a real shortage of qualified healthcare professional . vacancy rate for hospice nurse have rise to nearly 19 % , and the corollary be that staff morale be low . again , the Government need to make sure that the long - term workforce plan that they and the NHS be roll out include how we will ensure that hospice staff be part of the long - term funding . Hospice UK have warn , seriously , that without urgent action , some , indeed many , hospice may be force to close their door in the next 12 month . I have some request of the Government . first , as the hon . member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) say , we need they to commit to a long - term sustainable funding model for hospice . that be not to say that hospice should be bring into the central NHS — I personally believe that the innovation of the hospice sector be down to its independence from the NHS — but they need multi - year funding to understand where they stand . secondly , as have be mention , we need to scrap the postcode lottery that come from the integrate care board . some kind of ringfenced funding , particularly for child ' s hospice grant , would prevent a lot of the delay and inequity in the service . as I say , we need to make sure that hospice staff be integrate into the NHS long - term workforce plan and be pay in parity with similar NHS role . will the hon . Gentleman join I in pay tribute to the Phyllis Tuckwell hospice , which do great work in his constituency and mine ? I have be speak to the hospice over the last few day , and it require £ 25 , 000 a day to maintain its service . the hospice have tell I that it desperately need multi - year funding settlement to offer a guarantee of future financial security , as well as a clearly articulate workforce plan to ensure continuity of high - quality staff . I think I mention Phyllis Tuckwell at the beginning of my speech , so I entirely agree with the hon . gentleman . it do fantastic work in Farnham and across Surrey and Hampshire . I be sure like all hospice around the country , it rely on donation but require secure funding from the Government . I welcome the £ 100 million of capital investment . we need to remember that hospice and palliative care be not a " nice to have . " they be absolutely essential charitable service , and they must be fully integrate into the funding and planning framework of the Department of Health and the NHS . they provide compassionate , life - change care to thousand of adult and child every year . however , this vital work be be undermine by short - sighted Government policy . if the Government be serious about improve end of life care and reduce hospital pressure , they must deliver fair funding , address workforce challenge and ensure that no family be leave without the care they need , regardless of where they live . this be not just about number — the Minister might listen to this . it be about dignity , it be about compassion and it be about humanity at the most vulnerable time in people ' s life . rise — order . member will see that we have some pressure on time this evening , and I want to get everyone in . before I call the next speaker , I suggest an informal four - minute time limit . I congratulate the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) on secure this important and timely debate . the provision of hospice and palliative care be an essential part of our nation ' s health service , play a unique and vital role in our community and often provide service that the NHS simply can not cater for . we be very fortunate in north London to be serve by two amazing hospice . north London hospice and Noah ' s Ark child ' s hospice provide extraordinary end of life care , comfort and dignity for individual and their family in Enfield , Barnet and Haringey . I have have the pleasure of visit both , and I have see at first hand the exceptional service they provide . north London hospice support over 4 , 000 people each year . its service range from in - patient care to community - base support that allow people to die at home , if that be their wish . it also provide counselling , support and wellbee therapy . its community engagement be excellent , and I have the pleasure of attend its compassionate neighbour event in December . through the programme , community volunteer befriend and support individual at the end of their life , provide friendship and help with chore on a regular basis . similarly , Noah ' s Ark child ' s hospice , which I visit on Friday , provide a lifeline for child with life - limit or life - threaten condition . its hospice at home service allow child to receive care in familiar surrounding , which be often invaluable for family . I doubt that the service and facility it provide can be better . these organisation be model of good practice , but they be indicative of the challenge face by hospice in England . both face financial challenge to keep go , and the extraordinary work do by their fundraising team should be highly commend . north London hospice have £ 16 million of run cost every year and could not provide its current service without donation and fundraising . it be an honour to raise fund for that hospice when I run the London marathon in April last year , as do many other people to raise money . my time be five hour , 51 minute . Noah ' s Ark child ' s hospice have to find a staggering £ 6 . 5 million a year to keep go and have even talk I into do some fundraising , although I politely decline the skydiving option , as fun run be more my choice of activity for fundraising . the additional £ 100 million of capital investment for hospice announce by the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care be very welcome , as be the £ 26 million for child and young people ' s hospice . however , demand for palliative care be expect to rise by 25 % over the next 25 year so the funding model for hospice need to be resolve for the long term . although the NHS provide some financial support , that typically account for only a fraction of their cost . moreover , the process of access public funding through integrate care board be fraught with challenge . hospice must navigate a labyrinth of bureaucracy to secure funding that have often already be allocate to they . delay , inconsistency and a lack of transparency in decision making can leave hospice in financial limbo . we have all see the extraordinary fundraising effort undertake by hospice , but while those activity be inspire , they also highlight a stark reality : hospice be be ask to do too much with too little . the current funding model create a sense of perpetual precarity , where even a slight downturn in donation could have devastating consequence for patient and family . the question we must ask ourselves be this : do we , as a society , truly value the care that hospice provide ? if the answer be yes , we must reflect that value in our policy and funding structure . that mean increase NHS funding for hospice so they be not force to depend so heavily on charity ; streamline the process of access fund through icb , with clear timeline and accountability ; and recognise the unique challenge face by child ' s hospice by provide they with the additional support that they need . in conclusion , hospice such as the North London hospice and Noah ' s Ark child ' s hospice exemplify the good of what we can achieve as a society . they be place of compassion , expertise and hope , but they can not continue to operate under the current financial and bureaucratic pressure . we owe it to they — and to the people they serve — to provide the support that they need to thrive . let we ensure that hospice have the resource they need to continue their vital work — not just today , but for generation to come . rise — Order . I will now be impose a hard stop at four minute , and that may reduce even far . I call Sorcha Eastwood . I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for bring this matter to the House . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for how she have conduct the debate on assist dying , which we have all talk about so much and which most hon . member have mention today . regardless of people ' s opinion on the matter , during the debate on the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill everyone agree that we need to discuss palliative care . we need to ensure such care be deliver equitably , not just locally ; as a lot of hon . member have say , delivery be not only about hospice but about palliation . I do not have a hospice in my constituency of Lagan Valley , but some of my constituent have be move to the Southern Area hospice and the Marie Curie hospice . as well as that , we have the wonderful Daisy Lodge — a facility use as a hospice but also as somewhere for people to go to get respite . this be about support people to live well . I think it be the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) who say during the debate on the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill that before we die , we have to live well . that should really be at the forefront of what we be talk about today whenever we be capture the spirit of ask how we can help people to live the life they should be live , in a way that be not impact by inequality through a loss of service . one of the issue mention during that debate be cancer ; I know a lot about that as my husband have cancer . I want to make it clear that most people want to be able to die at home . for some , that be very achievable and doable . however , haematological neoplasm often prohibit many people who suffer from blood cancer from be able to die at home . we hear from the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) about issue to do with the workforce . with cancer , there be sometimes a real onus on haematologist because so much of the treatment be do with " the blood " : how they be perform in term of chemotherapy , radiotherapy and otherwise . in 2019 , the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee raise the issue of workforce with the British Society for Haematology and the Royal College of Pathologists . I be concerned about that at the time , but I be not sure we be much far on with that now so I remain concerned to this day . I be also concerned about the impact of the national insurance contribution increase . I be the only Northern Irish MP to propose an amendment to the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill to try to exclude Northern Ireland from the increase ; unfortunately , that be unsuccessful . the increase create an unfair further divide between people who provide community and voluntary service , and those who provide statutory state service . it be incumbent on all of we to keep talk about die well . we have a good irish tradition of wake ; we really get into the spirit of help people through loss , bereavement and grief . we can continue to do that only if we have strong , well - fund hospice . I be in the hon . Lady ' s constituency yesterday , so I know well the point she make and I thank she for let I visit . she talk about die well . will she join I in pay tribute to the Douglas Macmillan hospice , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) , which do so much to provide care and compassion to many people in Newcastle - under - Lyme and across north Staffordshire , as it seek to ensure that people do indeed die well ? I thank the hon . member for his contribution and of course I will join he in that . in closing , I want we to keep talk about live and die well because we can not shy away from that debate . we owe it to our constituent , not just mine in Lagan Valley but those across the UK , to ensure that we get this right . in this Parliament , we have speak at length about the importance of value dignity at the end of life . that principle must be apply to hospice and palliative care , which have face uncertain funding and be too hard to access for too long . like most of we , I have reason to be grateful for the work of palliative care professional . even though more than 15 year have pass , I still remember with a great sense of gratitude and relief the compassionate care that my grandmother , Janet Russell , receive at the end of her life at the St Mary ' s hospice , which be now the Birmingham hospice , in Selly Oak . in advance of the debate , I have be in contact with five palliative care professional in my constituency , who stress the consequence of the long - term pressure we have hear so much about , include the shortage of palliative care worker and the strain that put on those who remain . one say : " I ' m deeply passionate about what I do and I have see many life improve by palliative care but I ' m exhausted and often think about give up . " the strain on the system have lead , to quote again from one of my constituent , to " a high threshold for admit patient and a low threshold for discharge patient … we be be ask to stretch far , with less , for long … you can ' t give quality medical care when your hand be empty " . my constituent stress that there can be public misunderstanding about the nature of palliative care , which reduce suffering , and on average extend life . those misconception have be exacerbate by some of the medium coverage of the assist die debate , which can make people less likely to seek such care . a number of hon . member speak about the importance of child ' s hospice funding . the child ' s hospice grant be effectively end last year , although it be important to note that transitional arrangement be put in place . the new funding announce before Christmas have be welcome by the sector ; it be important to stress how welcome that funding be . I hear that recently at the Acorns child ' s hospice , which in the last year have care for 14 child from Northfield . I hear about the plan that Acorns have to put that funding to good use when I visit recently , alongside my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) . it be an exceptional facility , but the sector still need long - term funding certainty , set out on a multi - year basis , if it be to deliver efficiency and certainty for staff . I welcome the constructive approach that the Minister have take on this issue since July . I ask he to give we an update today , or soon , on whether the Government will be in a position either to restore the child ' s hospice grant on a long - term basis or provide similar certainty through another mean . whatever happen in this Parliament in respect of assist dying , will the Government work with palliative care professional to set out , as part of the NHS 10 - year plan , a clear timeline for improve palliative care provision , which in too many area be strained ? I thank the Backbench Business Committee for make time for this important discussion , and the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for the constructive tone in which he lead the debate . rise — order . we have 60 minute leave , and 19 member still wish to speak , so I will have to drop the time limit to three minute . I shall be as fast as I can , Madam Deputy Speaker . there be no doubt that there be massive support for the hospice movement in this place . while the new funding be welcome , Clare Gallie , the chief executive of the Lewis - Manning hospice in Poole say : " there be simply no point in have fully fit and beautiful building if we can not afford the staff to run they ! " when someone have a terminal diagnosis , their world turn upside down . it may have come out of the blue , or it may be after year of intensive treatment , when they be already at break point and sick . family have to come to term with lose the person they love , and learn to cope with manage distressing symptom , process their own emotion , and manage money worry and potentially their own health issue . People will be come in and out of the house at a time when they just want to be leave alone . they will also be terrify of be leave alone and something awful happen . they be more likely to call their gp on a Friday afternoon , worry that no one will be around at the weekend ; more likely to witness a distressing symptom and ring for an ambulance , create an emergency dash to the hospital and a lengthy stay on a trolley ; and more likely to be subject to blood test and intervention that will not alter the path of their disease . I go on that journey when my mum , Lin Foster , die of ovarian cancer age just 59 , but we be lucky : we have the support of district nurse and palliative care team through Forest Holme . for the last eight week of her life , when she do not leave her bed , those people come in and out of her house with no need to knock . they know where the kettle be , and they know when we need our own time . they manage she every need , include support she as she plan her own funeral . she do not want to go to hospital . she want to end her day in the thatched cottage that have be her lifelong dream . that be what most people say they want , but only 37 % of cancer patient be at home at the time of their death . junior doctor tell we that palliative patient be spend month in general medical ward , frequently die there . I be tell : " it be not right , it be not humane because general ward lack the skill " . it also do not save the NHS money . I have write to the Minister about the Lewis - Manning anticipatory care model , which I also raise with the all - party parliamentary group on hospice and end of life care . that programme seek involvement at the point of diagnosis . Lewis - Manning run a pilot from April 2024 to this month that save NHS Dorset £ 765 , 000 across Poole and Purbeck . I be grateful to my hon . friend , and to the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for her Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill , which have do so much to bring this debate into the national consciousness . do my hon . friend agree with the liberal Democrat policy that the Government should exempt hospice from the NIC rise ? I completely agree , but what be really ridiculous be that , accord to the Department of Health and Social Care , over 10 million hospital day follow an emergency admission in the last year of life , and 10 % of people who die of cancer have three or more emergency admission in the last three month of their life . the anticipatory care model can prevent some of those admission and reduce the trauma . far to my letter , send in November , I urge the Minister to meet I and Clare Gallie to talk about a transformative approach . I be deeply concerned when Marie Curie email I to say that Dorset integrate care board will stop commission specialist end of life care from March . the rationale be that personal care commissioning will go via council framework , but they do not require expertise in the provision of end of life care . I urge the Minister to insist that the specialist be listen to in the framework and to ensure that Lewis - Manning and Marie Curie be hear . those organisation be look to make redundancy and close service at a time when hospital bed be at a premium — order . Hartlepool be incredibly lucky to be serve by an amazing institution — one that have touch the life of so many in our town . Alice House hospice and the brilliant people who work there , like hospice across the country , provide essential support to those in their final stage of life , ensure that they receive the dignity and care they deserve . the stark reality , though , be that Alice House alone require £ 3 . 6 million each year to operate , with only 25 % of that money come from the Government . that mean it have to raise £ 7 , 000 a day just to keep the door open and to provide service . any additional work beyond ordinary maintenance come at an extra cost . as we have hear , that be a situation mirror across the country . dignity at end of life should not rely on charity . rise cost and inconsistent financial support have leave many hospital struggle , force they to cut back their service . indeed , Hospice UK report that as many as 20 % of hospice be cut some level of provision , fuel a bed crisis . sadly , that be the case for Alice House when it close its long - term care unit in 2023 . I welcome the Labour Government ' s recognition of this financial crisis and its backing through the £ 126 million announce in December . while that support be welcome , we can not be complacent . we need to ensure that the 10 - year NHS plan include long - term commitment to reform the hospice funding model . that be essential not just to prevent another funding crisis , but to ensure that hospice can provide the essential care on which our community rely . the need for palliative care be project to increase by 25 % over the next 25 year . we must therefore act now to ensure that our hospice can meet demand . they be not just place of care , but vital support system that relieve pressure on our NHS , provide specialised care and training to health professional across the board . when hospice be force to cut service , the need for care do not disappear . it shift directly on to our already overburden NHS . life have a tendency to shape and focus one ' s attention on the issue in this place . my father have Alzheimer ' s . although he be currently very well , I know that our family — I , he and my wonderful mother — be go to face a difficult future . we have a responsibility now to fix that future for everybody who will need that care in the future , and I hope that be what the Government will do . it be a pleasure to speak in the debate and to follow the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) . I thank he for his personal story . personal story tell the story of the debate we have in front of we . during the last debate on assist dying , the dire strait of our palliative care system be rightly put under the spotlight , so I be pleased to see this debate to address the system and the lack of funding . I will refer to two charity in Northern Ireland that I have have contact with . one of they be Northern Ireland Hospice . it have highlight that the Government fund approximately 30 % of service cost , so the majority of its income rely on the good will and generosity of voluntary donation and other fundraising activity . that mean 70 % of the funding to provide its specialist palliative care for over 4 , 000 infant , child and adult with life - limit condition in Northern Ireland come from the funding raise by volunteer . we owe a lot to Northern Ireland Hospice and its volunteer . the people of Northern Ireland be incredibly generous when it come to charitable giving , but when we take into account the cost of live crisis and the fact that it naturally reduce what people can give — it be a fact of life — we can see the concern of the hospice sector . indeed , when Northern Ireland Hospice believe that its funding would be cut by health trust last year , it announce that it would have to cut the number of bed available in child ' s hospice from seven bed all week round to six bed Monday to Friday and only three at the weekend , which represent a massive change in what it be able to do . that be not the news that we want to hear . it do not mean that few child need hospice facility , but that cost have rise , the ability of fundraiser have decrease , and the Government have not enable health trust to make up the difference . although I have underline the situation in child ' s hospice , the issue be replicate in adult care in every corner of the UK . the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) be here . he be a former Health Minister of Northern Ireland , and whenever Northern Ireland Hospice need help , he be able to allocate funding to get it over that hard patch . I thank he on the record for all that he do to make that happen . funding for palliative care be simply not sufficient . I refer to burnout when the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) very kindly let I intervene early . medical staff whose loyalty and passion for the job keep they in post , do overtime or working unpaid to provide cover , be exhausted and unable to carry on . Marie Curie say that one in four people will die without the right care and support . far too many people be die in avoidable pain , in poverty , and alone . by 2048 , the need for end of life care will have rise by up to 25 % , so the challenge for tomorrow be even great than the challenge for today — over 730 , 000 people will need care every year . we know that that crisis be loom , and now be the time to make change for our love one and our constituent . like other member , that be what I be ask the Minister to do . I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure the debate . I will challenge any politician , regardless of their rosette , when they say that the NHS be break . it be not break ; it be just underfunded . it be starve of the resource that it need to function at its very good . we on the Labour Benches be enormously proud of the NHS and its found principle : the universal right to comprehensive healthcare that be free at the point of use . money should never be the passport to the good treatment . People should get the good that modern science can offer . the NHS be our great creation , and it be socialism in action . as the NHS endure another hard winter , so must labour ' s found principle . the private sector should not always be the solution . the private sector receive an extra £ 2 . 5 billion a year in Government funding to cut waiting list be not one of the principle — of either the NHS or the Labour party . there be an early back and forth between hon . member on how to find money . that do not necessarily have to mean cut ; I suggest an annual wealth tax . in Scotland , our hospice remain under enormous strain . annually , approximately 21 , 000 adult and child receive expert palliative care , end of life care and bereavement support . the head of all 14 hospice charity in Scotland have say that their sector be in the grip of an insurmountable funding gap , and staff have speak openly of the dire possibility of budget shortfall reach the point where there will be no other option but to introduce service reduction . of course , staff will do everything in their power to avoid that , but it be the stark reality of palliative and end of life care in Scotland . the hospice sector need the Scottish Government to provide further financial support to address the shortfall in statutory funding , which be not keep up with increase cost . that , couple with the Scottish Government ' s delivery on their promise of a new national funding framework for hospice care , be desperately need , so that hospice can prepare for the long term . the Secretary of State repeatedly tell we that all road lead to Westminster when it come to funding . do the hon . Member agree that the Scottish Government can do only what be possible with the resource make available by Westminster ? the Scottish Government need to do much well with the resource they have be give . on the topic of funding , hospice also rely on financial donation , and people the length and breadth of the UK raise so much for hospice . naturally , many loyal supporter of the hospice sector have not be immune to the bankrupt political ideology of austerity , and the ensue cost of living crisis have see ordinary people become poor , with out - of - control food bill , escalate food cost and sky - high mortgage and rent . overall , the general erosion of living standard mean that donation be an expense that many people can simply no long afford . the rebuilding of wide society can not happen without the rebuilding of and investment in the vital public service that people rely on . that include a properly fund and resource health and social care system that have the same principle and ethos as when Labour create it . I will not focus on assist die / assist suicide this evening , because as the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) say in a good opening speech , we be all unite in this place in our desire to see improvement in the palliative care system , but I feel compel to make this simple point of fact . study and research show that in jurisdiction and country around the world that have introduce an assist dying / assist suicide law , the investment in and the quality of palliative care have decline , relative to those that do not have an assist dying / assist suicide law . that be for reason that be fairly comprehensible . that be a fact . I implore the House : let we fix our palliative care system before we consider open up the law on assisted dying . the United Kingdom be , of course , the birthplace of the hospice movement , and we have some of the good palliative care service and specialist in the world , but as we have hear this evening , our system simply be not work . we have demand for palliative care and hospice service on a scale that be never anticipate in the post - war year in which the NHS be develop . the challenge of grow demand have be sadly exacerbate by decision that the Government have make , as we have hear . on Friday , I go to St Barnabas hospice in Lincoln , our local hospice , which do wonderful work , and talk to its chief executive officer , who be tear his hair out . because of the national insurance increase , he be lose £ 300 , 000 a year . he pay his nurse less than the local hospital ; he have to . he be literally fund the NHS and cut his own service in the hospice . I beg the Government to think again about the national insurance increase on hospice . my right hon . friend make absolutely the right point . it echo the experience of hospice across the country . Prospect House , which be on the edge of Swindon and be in my constituency of East Wiltshire , receive only 23 % of its funding from the taxpayer . it face a significant deficit this year , so it take immense pain and step to bridge its funding shortfall . there be a huge response to a public fundraising appeal , and it raise over £ 170 , 000 from the local community , but that be before the Budget . the effect of the national insurance increase alone on Prospect House be £ 170 , 000 , so the public ' s generosity have be entirely wipe away by the Chancellor , and Prospect House be back exactly where it be . Julia ' s House in Devizes be a child ' s hospice , and the most wonderful , move place that I have visit in my time as an MP . it have have a similar experience . it get only 8 % of its budget from the taxpayer . its deficit have go up from £ 900 , 000 before the Budget to £ 1 . 1 million now . we therefore desperately need a comprehensive review of palliative care . I pay tribute to the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , and to Baroness Finlay in the other place . they be lead a review of palliative care , with a view to come forward soon with recommendation for the Government on how to improve the system . indeed , thank to Lady Finlay ' s amendment to the last Government ' s Health and Care Act 2022 , integrate care board be require to commission palliative care . unfortunately , no money be attach to that amendment , and as we have hear , the way in which some ICBs commission care be not good enough . I regret , for instance , that the ICB in our area will not commission Julia ' s House , the child ' s hospice that I mention , so we need a well commissioning model . I take issue with the point make by the hon . member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) that icb can not find the money for these service in their budget . they could if they do their job properly and commission service locally . they should be able to move budget around . the fact be that if proper investment be make in palliative care , money be save elsewhere in the NHS ; that be the crucial point . expensive bed stay in hospital would be reduce , as would demand on ambulance and other service . it should be possible to improve palliative care within the icb ' current envelope . we do not want a system of enforce uniformity , or a great new national bureaucracy . I be concerned to hear some hon . member suggest that we nationalise the system ; I do not think that be right . we need to ensure that icb can do the job that they need to do , and that hospice can innovate as they want . the crisis in funding , and the postcode lottery and health inequality face by many family , particularly in access hospice and palliative care , weigh heavily on my decision to vote as I do in the debate on the assisted die Bill . that be why I be sincerely grateful to the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure this very important debate . I be profoundly move by the extraordinary work of our local hospice , Compton Care , when I recently visit its new hub in the Scotlands , Low Hill , just before Christmas . I be deeply move by the work that its people do to support family who turn to they at their darkest time . I see outstanding medical care provide by specialist medical team and counsellor , but also the wraparound support that they provide — everything from creative therapy and grief counselling to bespoke support for bereaved child . there be also those quiet , crucial moment when the specialist staff know just what to say , just when thing be so difficult for family — moment that be unimaginable to navigate . that be why the Government ' s extra £ 100 million for hospice across the country and their extra £ 26 million for child ' s hospice service be essential . it be the big investment in a generation , a clear sign of this Government ' s commitment to everyone have access to high - quality end of life care . it will result in hospice such as Compton Care reach more people , especially in community that have long feel the brunt of deepen health inequality . it will provide much welcome support for family across Wolverhampton and Willenhall , and ensure that no one face the end of life without the care , comfort and compassion that they deserve . I welcome the Government ' s investment boost in hospice and palliative care , but I will continue to advocate for equity in care . may I intervene ? I have nearly finish , thank you . I will never lose sight of constituent ' fundamental right to dignity and care , which matter right until the very end . I start by thank the compassionate , dedicated and caring hospice staff and volunteer who , year round , support patient and their family through some of the most difficult moment of their life . I welcome this debate , which highlight the need for great , more consistent Government support for the work of deliver that vital care . most pressingly , we must ensure that fiscal policy do not negatively impact our hospice , because hospice be pillar of our healthcare system . they support over 300 , 000 people annually and provide not just outstanding clinical care , but emotional and psychological support . I have see at first hand the many way in which hospice work to bring some sense of comfort and normality at a very distressing time , from provide group activity and special event to create quiet space for reflection . hospice be not just care provider ; they be vital partner in the healthcare system , reduce pressure on NHS service by offer specialist in - patient care and community - base service . hospice prevent unnecessary A & E visit and facilitate timely hospital discharge . when hospice be force to cut service , the burden on the NHS only grow . that make long - term support for hospice not just compassionate but practical . a constituent recently contact I to tell I about her husband ' s experience . unfortunately , there be no room for her husband at my constituency ' s local hospice , the Princess Alice hospice . my constituent strongly believe that her husband ' s end of life experience would have be more peaceful and less painful have he be admit there . instead , he be leave at home , in extreme pain for hour . the community nurse do eventually come to administer pain relief , shortly after which he pass away , but my constituent have express that the whole experience be deeply traumatic for she and her child , and urge I to call for more funding , so that other family can be spare such distress . despite the crucial role of hospice , the hospice sector be at break point . as a fundraiser , I work closely with hospice , and I know just how precarious their financial situation be . many people do not realise how little of hospice care be fund by the Government . on average , the Government fund only one third ; for the remain funding , hospice be reliant on charitable donation . this imbalance leave hospice vulnerable to financial crisis as , thank to rise cost and inconsistent donation , they fail to bridge the gap . this funding model do not work . one in five UK hospice have have to cut service in the last year , or be plan to , due to insufficient funding , and this trend will continue unless action be take . although I welcome the Government ' s £ 126 million package for hospice , we must see it for what it be — a stopgap , not a long - term solution . we need a plan to put hospice on a sustainable , fair and consistent financial footing . a long - term reform of hospice funding be need as part of the NHS ' s 10 - year plan . hospice such as Shooting Star and Princess Alice embody the value of compassion and community . they provide comfort where there be pain , hope where there be despair and dignity where there be loss . it be our responsibility to ensure that they continue this vital work . I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) and the Backbench Business Committee for enable this important debate . this morning , I visit Myton hospice ' Rugby Myton support hub , which , together with its two in - patient centre and team provide many distinct service , give value care to my constituent in Rugby . I want to put on record my sincere gratitude to all the staff and volunteer . the team this morning brief I on the service they provide at the hub , which I will briefly mention . they provide coffee morning , counsel for patient and family , opportunity to enjoy art and craft and to hear music , physical exercise session , self - care advice , support for carer and much more . all be deliver with kindness , and all be support by an amazing array of volunteer . this be all back by incredible fundraiser , include the former mayor of Rugby , Councillor Maggie O ' Rourke ; Myton be her mayoral charity recently . local community often rise to the challenge of fundraising , and they recently help Myton to secure £ 240 , 000 to recruit , train and pay five register nurse , so that more people in Coventry and Warwickshire can access a hospice bed . I hope the Minister will consider three point that arise from my visit . first , volunteer and good will are of course wonderful , but they can only go so far , so any additional long - term funding from the local ICB or central Government would go a very long way , particularly give that the charitable nature of hospice mean that there can be a multipli effect . secondly , to dispel myth , today I see that hospice be not just about the last few week or day of life . they give a huge range of support to people with life - limit condition , so that they can live well until the very end of their life . furthermore , they be there to support family , and hospice wish to engage with people much early in their illness . thirdly , on communication , I hope the Minister will consider the point that despite the good effort of organisation such as Myton hospice , many people do not understand what hospice be and what service they provide , or that they be free and be not private provider in the traditional sense . what more can the Government do to help hospice educate the public about their service , particularly now that there be more of a spotlight on palliative care , follow the recent vote on the Bill introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) ? hospice in Devon be already struggle before the Government ' s Budget last autumn , which introduce a hike in employer ' national insurance . to talk first about the national picture , we have hear that a third of funding for hospice tend to come from the state , through the NHS . however , in Devon , it be less than a fifth . for Hospiscare , a charity base in Exeter , the figure be 18 % , while for Seaton Hospice at Home and Sidmouth Hospice at Home , the figure be 0 % ; they do not receive any funding at all from NHS Devon . last year , I get together with Ben Bradshaw and Simon Jupp , the former mps for Exeter and for East Devon . we put aside our political difference — Simon Jupp and I be contest the seat of Honiton and Sidmouth at the time — write to the chair of NHS Devon , the brilliant Sarah Wollaston , and secure an extra £ 500 , 000 for hospice care in Devon . none the less , the charity Hospiscare still have a deficit of £ 2 . 5 million per year . follow the national insurance announcement last autumn , the Guardian report in mid - November that whitehall be consider option to relieve the financial pressure on hospice . it suggest that civil servant be weigh up the possibility of offset the NI rise , fund hospice nursing staff directly , or set up a " direct funding pot " for hospice . follow the announcement on 19 December and the Christmas gift of capital funding for hospice , it seem that the Government choose the direct funding pot for hospice . the problem with the additional capital funding be that a lot of hospice do not have physical building . they do not have infrastructure . they provide nursing service and hospice at home , so they can not simply offset day - to - day spending with that capital spending . they be completely miss out , and that be the experience for Seaton hospice at home and sidmouth hospice at home service in my east Devon constituency . in conclusion , these charity step in where the NHS do not . provide care be central to the Government ' s vision of shift treatment from hospital to community , yet the current trajectory seem to be force patient back into overstretched , acute hospital . I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure this debate and for his excellent and move opening speech . hospice across the country care for hundred of thousand of people live with condition that limit their life or mean they face their life come to an end . I wish to put on record my thank to two hospice that provide crucial service for people in my area . ellenor be a specialist palliative care provider for adult and child base in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) . since 1985 it have be provide hospice care for those who need it most , and it recently open a new wellbeing centre , which be a hugely welcome addition to its facility . I also pay tribute to Demelza , which have child ' s hospice in the constituency of my hon . friend the Members for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) and for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) . Demelza support family who be go through what I can only imagine be some of the most difficult circumstance I can possibly think of , where child be face serious or life - limit condition . give the importance of such service , I understand the high degree of concern from the sector before the Government ' s announcement of further funding last month , with the NHS England child ' s hospice grant not have be confirm at that point for 2024 - 25 . I therefore join hon . member who have welcome the 19 December announcement by the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care of £ 100 million in funding improvement for hospice , such as update IT and improved facility for patient and visitor . I also very much welcome the news that hospice for child and young people will receive £ 26 million in revenue funding for the next financial year . Hospice UK have welcome that funding , say that it will " bring clarity to critically important service for child with life - limit illness . " what do the hon . member think about the many hospice that do not need the capital but be desperate for the income ? I would be interested in his answer . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . the capital funding will be of immense help to a wide variety of hospice in ensure that they can upgrade their operation so that they be less reliant on revenue funding from the charity sector and from the NHS . we need a sustainable funding model , and I know the Minister will come back on that at the end of the debate . finally , let we wish Hospice UK , individual hospice , and our NHS every success with their amazing care for all who need their service , and hope that they will be able to find a sustainable financial future as a result of the Government ' s work . I begin by thank my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for bring forward this incredibly important debate . anyone who have be pay attention to my contribution in this place will not be surprised that I be once again express my deep possible concern about St Raphael ' s hospice in my constituency . its case be emblematic of the problem across this undervalue and dramatically important sector . one of my first visit after be elect as the MP in July be to St Raph ' s hospice , where I see the incredible care that it offer to resident in my constituency and beyond . I have meet people from the hospice several time since then , include just this morning , and it be clear that while the Secretary of State ' s £ 100 million announcement be welcome , it simply do not go far enough . the funding be restrict to capital expenditure fraction , such as refurbishment and digital service . while undoubtedly important to modernise and update the capability of our hospice , the funding do not address their immediate financial hardship , especially in the context of the Chancellor ' s Budget . St Raph ' s be set to face an estimate £ 140 , 000 increase in staff cost this coming year due to the rise in employer national insurance contribution . this burden only add to the significant strain on the hospice , which be currently fund by the NHS for just 28 % of its budget . it be therefore reliant on the generosity of charitable donation for the remainder . if the Government fail to see sense and exempt hospice from this hike , structural deficit will only continue to grow in the sector , push many over the cliff edge altogether and force those who remain open to cut their service to the bone . while the announcement of additional funding be appreciate , it do not address the root of the problem . the Government ' s approach be dangerously akin to tackle a leak roof with a mop and bucket . the Secretary of State speak last week about the need to shift the focus of healthcare from the hospital to the community , yet I fear their treatment of the hospice sector have do exactly the opposite . due to the limited funding that St Raph ' s receive , it have be force to cut its hospice at home scheme , a vital service where staff directly attend to patient in their own home in the local community . those on the Government Front Bench say they want community - base palliative care like that under the hospice at home scheme , but the scheme have be cut far due to their action . these issue show why they must bring forward a long - term funding arrangement for hospice , if the Government intend to keep their promise . my Hospices and Health Care ( Report on Funding ) Bill , present last year and due for Second Reading in July , set out way for the Government to consider those option to deliver a long - term funding deal . however , I sincerely hope that by July the Government will have listen and the Bill will not need to be debate at all . I urge they to please make my Bill completely redundant . I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure this debate . like many member here , I be here to talk about my local hospice . just over the constituency border in Whittington , St Giles hospice have be do its vital work for more than 40 year . however , 2024 be a challenging year for the hospice , with rise cost , plus the impact of the cost of living crisis make fundraise more difficult , lead it to make some impossibly hard decision last summer . St Giles have to close one of its wing and make a number of redundancy among its clinical staff . that be due not to reduce need across Lichfield , Burntwood , the surround village and far afield , but only to the financial situation that the hospice face . I commend my constituent Sean Collins , who be lead St Giles ' s urgent funding appeal . the hospice support Sean and his child follow the loss of their mother and wife , Felicity , at just 38 year old . I be not sure I would be strong enough to turn that tragedy into something as positive as Sean have , but he have all my support . the generous donor to St Giles do so much to care for people they have never meet with their donation . in a recent meeting with Elinor Eustace , the ceo of the hospice , she mention how much she value all that they do , but say that she do not want to have a fully fund model , because of the value that fundraising bring to the entire community around the hospice . have say that , government support be essential to make sure that hospice across the country can continue to do everything they do for all our community , so I welcome the £ 100 million of additional funding that the Government announce just before Christmas . however , we must find way to ensure that all hospice remain sustainable in the long term . St Giles receive just 18 % of its funding from the NHS , which be less than £ 1 in every £ 5 when the national average be £ 1 in every £ 3 . level that play field can not come fast enough . in addition , St Giles have to deal with five different integrate care board . that be five different NHS organisation for five different geography , all with different funding formula , different grant process , different reporting mechanism , different key performance indicator and different timescale . that be all for grant that add up to nothing more than an administrative nightmare . simplify and standardise that process will ensure that St Giles can spend less time secure grant from the NHS and more time on care for the community in my constituency and far afield . I ask the Minister to look very closely at that point , because there be a real opportunity to secure significant benefit for hospice across the country . I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for bring this important debate to the House tonight . I congratulate he , but it be unfortunate that it be not hold in Government time , because this issue be raise on a number of occasion during the debate on assist dying . the debate have highlight the importance of the discussion around palliative care . the All Ireland Institute of Hospice and Palliative Care conduct a recent study of 500 people in Northern Ireland , which indicate that more than one in three think that they only have day to live if their doctor or healthcare professional talk to they about palliative care , and more than one in four would feel that their doctor be give up on they if they talk about refer they to palliative care . this debate and the previous debate that we have have raise the importance of these discussion with family and the wide community . work have be do in Northern Ireland on conversation about advanced care planning , where family , health professional and all part of the society be involve in those open conversation . much have be say about the fundraising model for hospice and palliative care provider , and it be no different in Northern Ireland . we talk about the need for a funding model , but the Department of Health and the entire health service in Northern Ireland have be rely on year - on - year budget since 2016 . that put stress not only on our national health service , but on palliative care provider , hospice , GPs and community pharmacy . there be a desire from the rest of health and social care in Northern Ireland to see a recurrent , guarantee budget that we could use to make those transformation decision . I pay tribute to the hospice and palliative care provider in Northern Ireland , especially the people who work in they . much have be say today about fund care model , how they be manage and all the rest of it , but often we forget that at the heart of every care package , every delivery , every door that be knock and open and every cup of tea that be make for someone in one of those condition be those healthcare professional . they have the strength and the ability to move on to the next patient and family , to give they the same level of dedicated professional support . finally , I pay tribute to the staff in the Macmillan specialist palliative care unit in Antrim area hospital . I have the honour and privilege of visit they many time as Health Minister in Northern Ireland , but especially when they be provide support and care to Shirley Smyth almost this time last year — a fantastic supporter and grandmother of one of my councillor , and a fantastic lady . I join colleague in congratulate the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) on secure this important debate . Bolton hospice have be face a funding gap of £ 1 . 2 million , which could have mean cut as many as a third of its bed . we should remind ourselves what each bed and every penny lose actually mean : in many case , the real - life impact of these number be the prolong suffering of the most unimaginable kind for the individual , and the heart - rend experience of have to witness it for family and friend . let we not forget that 300 , 000 people depend on hospice every year . Bolton hospice , in part follow a fantastic campaign from the Bolton News and the huge generosity of the people of Bolton , be able to cut its deficit to £ 400 , 000 — still a large amount . I do my level well to contribute to that campaign by traipse up Mount Kilimanjaro . frankly , hospice be so important to so many people that they should not have to rely on the kindness of stranger . that be why I be pleased to learn just before Christmas that Bolton hospice be in line to receive a slice of the once - in - a - generation £ 100 million national funding boost announce by the Health Secretary . such investment pay for itself in many way , by support the Government ' s plan to shift more care into the community and keep people who need not be there out of hospital , and , importantly , by ensure that people can die in a place of their choice with the care that they need . however , more funding will inevitably be require as we cope with an age population with increasingly complex care need . give the pressure on public finance and the cost of living crisis , we must look for creative and innovative solution . with that in mind , I want to raise the work of my constituent Corin and Tricia Dalby , who , through tireless campaigning , have secure the support of 30 hospice , 36 , 000 petition signature and more than 100 parliamentarian in raise the profile of hospice ' financial pressure , with a petition present to no . 10 Downing Street last month . Corin and Tricia ' s petition call Government to redirect the first £ 100 million of fine levy by the Financial Conduct Authority on bank and other financial service firm to the hospice sector . since April 2012 , the money collect from FCA fine have go to the Treasury , and can then go to charitable donation . we need to think carefully about how to ensure hospice be put on the sustainable funding platform they so desperately need , but I urge my colleague , include the Minister , to carefully consider this proposal . finally , it would be remiss of I not to mention the private Member ' s Bill of my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) on assist dying . palliative care provide the relief so urgently need for hundred of thousand of people around the country and their family , and we absolutely must make sure it be the good it can possibly be . like other member , I begin by pay tribute to our hospice and to everyone who work and indeed volunteer in palliative and end of life care , provide such amazing support to patient and their loved one around their death — that most difficult time of life — and help people to have a good death . as many member have say , that work be so crucial . I would particularly like to mention St Michael ' s hospice , Hereford , in my constituency . it be a place I have have an association with for many year , as it have provide amazing care to friend of mine who have die there . it be so well love in the community . be it not such a shame , as so many colleague have say today , that palliative care be so dependent on charitable funding ? as the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) say , it be integral to our healthcare system — except it be not , because it be not fully fund by our healthcare system . it be not actually free at the point of need , except thank to the grace and kindness of stranger and charitable funding . government Members have make mention many time this evening of the £ 100 million capital injection from the Government , which be absolutely welcome ; it have be so frequently mention , in fact , that one might think the whip have gently encourage its mentioning . however , the problem be that this £ 100 million be a short - term capital injection , when what be need be a long - term revenue funding solution . despite the amazing effort of fundraiser , revenue budget in hospice be under extreme pressure . that have be make bad by the rise in employer national insurance contribution ; St Michaels will have an additional bill of £ 240 , 000 next year because of it . that be a problem . the current funding model for hospice care be a problem . it be good that there be now a statutory requirement for icb to fund palliative care , but there be a complete lack of parity across the country . hospice have to negotiate individually with icb all across the country every year . a hospice leader say to I that they have no sight of the future ; another say that when they be consider redundancy , it be no use tell people they be go to be resurface the car park with the new capital funding . we need a sustainable revenue funding solution for hospice — a clear , fair , multi - year , long - term funding solution — with parity across the country , to provide those do that amazing work to support patient and the patient themselves with the support they need and deserve . twenty year ago this month , both my parent die aged 60 , of cancer . they die just one week apart , but that be where the similarity end . my father die a horrible death , receive very poor — if any — palliative care . my mother win the postcode lottery , if you like , and pass away in the Royal Stoke , in Stoke - on - Trent , where she receive superb care and die a dignified death . I live with the twin legacy of those death . I stress to the Minister the importance of ensure that train palliative care staff be spread equally throughout the country . it be vital . it make a difference . stoke - on - Trent have also win the postcode lottery in a way , with our excellent hospice , the Dougie Mac . have merge with the Donna Louise child ' s hospice , it now provide care for all people of all age across north Staffordshire . it provide many innovative service , include a dementia care service and a rapid response ambulance service , which respond for patient at the end of their life . instead of take they to A & E , they travel to the hospice . that save the local hospital 350 A & E visit a year , save on ambulance and save the trust money . unfortunately , the hospice do not receive any funding to help deliver that service . I want to take the opportunity to put on the record my thank to the chief executive , who I speak to at great length recently , to all the staff across both site , in Blurton and Trentham in my constituency , for all the work they do , and to all the amazing volunteer in the shop throughout Stoke - on - Trent . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to funding hospice and the £ 100 million injection , but like everyone else I support end the postcode lottery . we must end inequality in the delivery of service and we must provide a more sustainable model in future . hospice and palliative care be not just about ease physical pain ; they be about dignity , compassion and humanity . how we care for those approach the end of their life reflect who we be as a society . as have be mention by right hon . and hon . member , palliative care should be an integral part of our wide NHS . over half a million people die each year in the UK , yet too many of they do so in condition that fail to meet their need or respect their wish . hospice , the very sanctuary of peace and care , be stretch to breaking point . palliative care team staff by dedicated professional and volunteer do extraordinary work , but they be increasingly underfunde , under - resource and overlook in policy debate . those challenge be not the fault of those on the frontline ; they stem from systemic issue in how we prioritise end of life care . funding for hospice come primarily from charitable donation , with only about a third provide by the NHS . that be not sustainable and nor be it fair . we would not dream of ask our hospital or school to rely on bake sale and fundraiser for their survival , so why should hospice be any different ? I do not have hospice in my constituency , but I want to pay tribute to the local hospice that care for my constituent . the Kirkwood hospice have budget for a near £ 1 million deficit for 2023 - 24 and it expect the same level of deficit to continue in subsequent year . the picture be the same for the Forget I not child ' s hospice in Kirklees , which also face a £ 1 million shortfall and have put out an urgent appeal for public donation . another issue be access . palliative care should be a universal right , yet we know that availability vary widely depend on where we live , and one ' s age and condition . too many people , particularly in deprive area or from minority community , face barrier to receive the care they need . that inequality be unacceptable in a society that pride itself on fairness and must be address by the Government . in conclusion , we must ensure secure , long - term funding for hospice and palliative care service . that require a shift in how we think about end of life care : not as an optional extra , but as a core part of our healthcare system . the Government must step up and provide the sustainable financial support these service need to thrive now and for the future , and be able to support all community equally . let I first pay tribute to the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for bring this debate to the House . hospice such as Compton Care in my constituency provide invaluable palliative care , not only in term of pain and symptom control but in provide psychological , social and spiritual support , support for people who wish to die at home , and rehabilitation , financial advice and support for family member , include bereavement support . however , the funding that hospice receive from icb across the country be inconsistent , and often do not reflect the cost of the service that they provide . as have already be mention , only a third of hospice funding come from the Government , with the rest come from charitable donation . as of May last year , at least a fifth of UK hospice have either cut their service in the previous year or be plan to do so . when hospice cut service the need for care be still there , but it have to be meet by the NHS . if they be give the long - term support they need , that can ease the pressure on the NHS . sector leader estimate that the need for palliative care in the UK will increase by 25 % over the next 25 year . however , I welcome the £ 100 million that the Government have provide , which will improve building , equipment , accommodation and digital upgrade , as well as the £ 26 million revenue funding for child and young people ' s hospice that will be provide in 2025 - 26 . there have be a lot of discussion about assist die this evening and when we discuss the assist die Bill , there be a lot of discussion about palliative care . now we have an opportunity to take action , and we need to seize it to improve palliative care . if the assist die Bill do become law , we need to make sure that people in the future do not have to make a decision between assist dying and palliative care . palliative and end of life care be about dignity , compassion , and give every person their right to live their final day in comfort and peace , as the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) observe when compassionately describe his parent ' last moment . however , I agree wholeheartedly with the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) that access to high - quality care be a postcode lottery across the UK . only a third of local NHS area in England can provide 24 / 7 end of life care at home , which leave nearly 100 , 000 people every year without the care and support that they deserve during their most vulnerable moment . we must address this disparity . every patient deserve a personalise care plan that respect their wish and support their physical , emotional , social and spiritual need . care plan should also offer non - clinical help , such as financial advice and opportunity for people to participate in meaningful activity while they can still do so ; and let we not forget the family who require respite care during this period . hospice play a vital role in such care , but , unlike the NHS , hospice care be not fully fund by the Government . hospice receive only about a third of their income from the state ; the rest be raise through charitable donation , which be pitiful . this model be unsustainable . as a result of rise cost , which have not be help by the national insurance increase , the sector face a £ 60 million deficit this year alone . as demand for hospice care grow owe to an age population and advance in medicine that help child with life - limit condition to live long , the strain on hospice will only increase . without immediate action they will struggle to meet this grow demand , leave more people without the care that they deserve . we need bold and decisive step to fix that . first , we need fair and sustainable funding . the Government must create a national plan to secure consistent funding for hospice . emergency funding be urgently need . secondly , we need a national standard for care . national quality standard and agree outcome for palliative and end of life care be essential . every integrate care board must meet minimum standard to provide fair access to care nationwide . thirdly , we need support for underserved community in area where people be currently miss out . there should be access to palliative care in home , care facility and hospital , ensure that no one be leave behind . fourthly , the £ 26 million child ' s hospice grant must be ringfence . let I end by thank the incredible team at the two hospice in my city that serve my constituency : LOROS , which assist 2 , 500 people a year , and Rainbows , a fabulous organisation that care for young people with life - limit condition . I want to thank they both . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for bring forward this important debate , and all hon . member for speak with such compassion . although the £ 100 million for hospice capital project be to be welcome , it be cash that be most need . Julia ' s House , a child ' s hospice in my constituency that have already be mention , will find itself out of pocket by £ 242 , 000 per year because of the rise in national insurance . Dorothy House hospice , which be also in my constituency , will lose even more . that be a lot of sponsor walk and parachute jump — perhaps too many — if the hospice be to avoid cut their service . I urge the Minister to think again , and to provide the fund that our hospice need . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure today ' s important debate , and all hon . member for approach the conversation with the compassion and thoughtfulness that this topic deserve . example share across the House show that hospice be a vital part of our healthcare system . they provide outstanding care for patient approach the end of their life , offer dignity , comfort and support to family , and they be often drive by hundred of volunteer , alongside the pay staff . hospice will play a key role in meet this Government ' s objective to move care from hospital to the community . this debate be very timely , give that the front page of the newspaper be report today that half a million people be leave languish on trolley in A & E and in corridor in 2024 because there be not enough bed to admit they . hospice , such as the extraordinary St Wilfrid ' s in my constituency of Chichester , be the cornerstone of community care . I be blow away during my recent visit to St Wilfrid ' s , and I be not ashamed to admit that I be bring to tear by the account of the family member , patient and staff I meet that day . I applaud the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) for her show of emotion , because it be an emotive topic . St Wilfrid ' s provide comfort and compassion to patient and their family during life ' s most challenging moment — both directly in the calm and idyllic surrounding of the hospice and out in the community , provide palliative care for 300 people in the comfort of their own home . it be St Wilfrid ' s belief that everybody should be afford a good death , and it strive to ensure that there be beauty in every day for patient and their loved one , yet its service be be cripple by rise cost and a lack of sufficient Government support . hospice be in the process of set their upcoming budget , and many be have to make difficult long - term decision to cut palliative care because they lack a long - term solution to address the grow financial strain . as the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) mention , it be all well and good be able to say you have a lovely car park when you do not have any nurse to park in it . only 17 % of the overall cost of St Wilfrid ' s hospice be currently cover by NHS grant funding — well below the minimum requirement across the country . one of the big component of hospice cost be the salary of their expert clinical and other staff . hospice be try to match nhs salary increase to ensure that staff can afford to stay with they , and to remain competitive . in addition , they be now burden with pay increase national insurance contribution , whereas direct NHS provider be exempt . for St Wilfrid ' s , the rise in national insurance contribution will cost an additional £ 210 , 000 , which be a significant financial burden . although we Liberal Democrats and hospice alike welcome the capital investment announcement in December 2024 , that funding do not address the challenge of day - to - day spend , so there be still a vast gulf between rise expense and available income . as the hon . member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) say , the funding must be the start , not the end . Hospice UK have warn that around 300 hospice in - patient bed — 14 % of the total — be currently close or out of use due to a lack of funding and chronic staff shortage , mean that few patient be able to access the end of life care that they need at one of the most vulnerable time in their life . my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) mention the Marie Curie report , as do other member across the House , which state that one in four people who need hospice care can not currently get it . the term " bed block " be not one I be particularly comfortable with , but if adequate palliative care be unavailable in the community or in a hospice , those people will remain stuck in hospital , and those hospital can not provide the expert care that a hospice can . our hospice be ready and willing to take on those patient , but they need the support of this government to do so . as my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) , who bring forward this debate , say , people do not want to die in hospital . they want to die at home or in a specialised setting such as a hospice . that be why the Liberal Democrats be call for hospice to be exempt from the rise in national insurance contribution . this targeted measure would provide immediate relief for a sector that be struggle under the weight of rise cost , and prevent further reduction in capacity or even closure . we must think long term . hospice need a sustainable funding model that guarantee they can continue their vital work of provide care for patient , support family and ease the pressure on the NHS . hospice must also be a part of the conversation in the Government ' s upcoming 10 - year plan for the NHS , and that must include sustainable hospice funding reform . example from across the House today show a shared recognition of the importance of hospice care . now we need the Government to match that recognition with action for the patient , for the family and for a health service that depend on hospice . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure this debate . I be go to test the patience of the House by read out all the hospice that have be name , but we get to 45 and I realise that time be short , so I will not do so . it be , however , a testament to those hospice ' service that so many member have speak so fondly about they . on behalf of his Majesty ' s Opposition , I would like to discuss three area : the conversation about death ; palliative service and the ecosystem ; and some specific technical question . it be rare in this House that we debate a topic that impact literally everyone , and it be an honour to play my part in highlight something I have long argue be not talk about nearly enough — that is , death and dying . we all know that the only certainty be death , but there be a variable , which be the quality of death . that have be the focus of today ' s debate . after all , it be Woody Allen who say : " I ' m not afraid of death , I just don ' t want to be there when it happen . " palliative care service dedicate their life to make sure that people who will die do so with dignity . many people think of hospital or hospice in relation to death , and their staff do fantastic work , but we must not forget the pivotal role play by the like of district nurse and GPs in ensure there be palliative care in our nation . in my constituency , I be bless with hospice care from Loros for adult and rainbow for child , both of which be much love by the public and , most importantly , support by army of volunteer . those people deserve this House ' s and the public ' s recognition and respect for what they contribute to our society . die can be a difficult subject to talk about , as I know from my clinical day , but that do not make it any less important . I pay tribute to this House for the way in which it handle and discuss the assist die debate . whatever position people take , it be fantastic to see a national debate now take place across dinner table up and down this country . so my first question to the Government be : what be be do to ensure that people look to plan their death well ? when we talk about the wide ecosystem , we have to consider the role of hospice , hospital and primary care provider such as district nurse , who be all key stakeholder , and the nature of how they have end up be involve in palliative care and the different journey they have make to do so . that be beyond the scope of this debate , but it be important because it inform the make - up and patchwork of palliation across this country . as we have hear , there be a balance between charitable funding and NHS funding , and even this House be divide on what that formula should look like and whether it should be solely state funded or charitable . my second question to the Government be : will they consider consult on a long - term funding model that allow this debate to take place , so that we have a well balance between the two ? build on that , look at it from the clinical point of view , part of the issue at play be what the provision should even look like . my third question to the Government be : will they commit to establish agree basic standard criterion for service - level provision , and to get a national agreement on the provision of palliative care service and what they look like for whatever a person should choose ? on the record of the last government , we legislate in the Health and Social Care Act 2022 to ensure that commission be take place . as part of the NHS response to covid , £ 350 million be give to support hospice in those difficult time . NHS England also put in grant funding for a 24 / 7 single point of access for palliative care support . as we have hear , the last Government also increase the funding for the child ' s hospice grant from £ 15 million in 2020 - 21 to £ 25 million , and I be pleased to see the Government continue that trajectory . to help manage staff , the last Government bring forward the first ever NHS workforce plan , and I commend this Government for continue to commit to that . with the debate about assist dying and the concern express by the Health Secretary about provision , however , my fourth question to the Government be : what assessment have they make of the impact of assist die on provision ? I believe the Secretary of State be commission work on this , so when will the result be release ? on assist dying and the ability to provide the service , this be not the right place to suggest whether they be right or wrong , but whether or not the Bill pass , I hope we will not let it distract we from the mission of continue to improve palliative care and end of life service , for which there be momentum in the House and among the general public . on the specific question from the sector , it would be remiss of I not to raise the concern about Labour ' s Budget and its impact on the palliative care sector . the employer national insurance contribution increase be a tax on charity — fact . charity be not cover by the NHS exemption . hospice be charity , so they be be tax — fact . GPs provide palliative care and support . they be not cover by the NHS exemption , so they be be tax — fact . Hospice UK have estimate that an additional £ 30 million will need to be find . this mean that charity and non - profit organisation such as Sue Ryder , Macmillan and Marie Curie be be hit with additional wage bill , require more money just to provide the same level of care . the Government have say that they will give £ 100 million to hospice , but it have be make abundantly clear in this debate that it be for capital expenditure only , unless the Minister would like to correct I . what assessment have the Government make of what the spending review will look like when it come to palliation ? it be hard not to see this as a Labour Government give with one hand while take with the other — tax GPs and hospice in order to give they money back in a way that they do not want . on staffing and contract , some staff be employ by the NHS , while other be directly employ by the hospice . have the Government make an assessment of the impact that will have on recruitment ? for example , palliative care consultant face a postcode lottery of term . will the Government consider look at that ? palliative care consultant ' contractual arrangement throw up another oddity in the sector : some NHS palliative care consultant have Crown indemnity , while other employ by hospice do not , cost they thousand of pound . will the Government consider look at that ? on the allocation of funding process , together for short life have call on the Government to confirm whether the £ 26 million will be ringfence for child ' s hospice and distribute centrally to avoid delay . previously , the decision be make to give it to icb to well help local decision making . although well meaning , that have result in delay . be the Government aware of this issue and , if so , will the Minister commit to work to smooth it out ? there be much more that I could say on the topic , and I sure that the same be true for many other . the UK have an age population , and demand for palliative care will continue to rise in decade to come . in this House , we have the opportunity to make a difference for all who come after we . at the heart of look after the dying be compassion . true compassion mean not only feel another ' s pain , but be move to help relieve it . this Government have the power to do that , and I hope they will . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure the debate and make such a powerful and thoughtful opening speech . I thank hon . member from across the House — there be too many to list . it would be impossible to capture the richness of the contribution make . something like 28 back - Bench Members make speech — I be sure Madam Deputy Speaker will correct I if my number be not quite right . it be an excellent debate , and I thank everybody for their contribution . I thank all those who work or volunteer in the hospice and palliative care sector for the deeply compassionate care and support that they provide to patient , family and love one when they need it most . this Government be commit to build a society in which every person receive high - quality , compassionate care , from diagnosis through to the end of life . we will shift more care out of hospital and into the community , to ensure that patient and their family receive personalise care in the most appropriate setting . palliative and end of life care service , include hospice , will have a vital role to play in that shift . the reality be that we have a mountain to climb . our health and care service be on their knee , but this Government will strain every sinew to build they , and to create a health and care system that be once again fit for the future . in England , integrate care board be responsible for the commissioning of palliative and end of life care service to meet the need of their local population . to support icb in that duty , NHS England have publish statutory guidance and service specification . while the majority of palliative and end of life care be provide by NHS staff and service , we recognise the vital part that voluntary sector organisation , include hospice , play in provide support to people at end of life , as well as to their love one . Most hospice be charitable , independent organisation that receive some statutory funding for provide NHS service . the amount of fund each charitable hospice receive vary both within and between ICB area . the variation be dependent on demand in the area , and on the totality and type of palliative and end of life care provision from NHS and non - NHS service , include charitable hospice , within each ICB footprint . we understand the financial pressure that hospice have be face , which be why last month I be truly proud that this Government announce the big investment in hospice in England in a generation . it will ensure that hospice in England can continue to deliver the high - quality care possible for patient and their family and love one . I also welcome that , and congratulate the Minister on get that money out of the Treasury , but will he acknowledge that there be a difference between capital and revenue ? hospice urgently need support for their day - to - day running cost , not just more money to support the capital . they also need capital support , but that be less crucial . I take the hon . Gentleman ' s point , but hospice face a range of pressure . the capital expenditure injection that we have provide will help they in the round . clearly , anything that help a hospice with its budget in the round , be it capital or revenue , will help the hospice . we be support the hospice sector through a £ 100 million capital funding boost for adult and child ' s hospice , to ensure that they have the good physical environment for care . there be also £ 26 million in revenue funding to support child and young people ' s hospice . the £ 100 million in capital funding will deliver much - need improvement — from refurbishment to overhaul IT system and well facility for patient and visitor — during the remainder of 2024 - 25 and throughout 2025 - 26 . the investment will help hospice to improve their building , equipment and accommodation , so that patient continue to receive the good care possible . hospice for child and young people will receive a furth £ 26 million in revenue funding for ' 25 - 26 through what be know until recently as the child ' s hospice grant . that investment demonstrate the Government ' s recognition of the importance of integrate service to improve the treatment that patient receive . furthermore , through our plan for neighbourhood health centre , we will drive the shift of care from hospital to the community , which will bring together palliative care service , include hospice and community care service , so that people have the good access to treatment through join - up service . money be not always the only solution , so will my hon . friend confirm how the commission on palliative care that the Government announce last month will improve end of life care ? the Government announce a commission on the future of adult social care . a separate commission be announce by my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) on palliative care . we will certainly monitor the finding of that commission very closely . we will set out detail of the funding allocation and distribution mechanism for both funding stream in the come week . in my contribution , I make the House aware that the Northern Ireland hospice have to cut its bed from seven to six for five day of the week , and at the weekend , there be only three . the Minister know that I respect he greatly . it be all very well to have capital money available , but there have to be money to run the system and provide bed . otherwise , we can buy bed , but might not be able to keep they and run a service . there must be something seriously wrong with what he be put forward . as I say in a previous answer , hospice face a range of pressure that financial contribution from the Government will help to ease . the funding will , of course , have a knock - on impact on hospice budget in the round . in spite of the record - break package that we have announce , we be certainly not complacent . there be more work to be do , and through the National Institute for Health and Care Research , the Department be invest £ 3 million in a policy research unit on palliative and end of life care . the unit launch in January 2024 and be build the evidence base that will inform our long - term strategy . a number of hon . member request a long - term strategy and plan , which be sorely miss after 14 year of conservative neglect and incompetence . I agree that we need a long - term plan , and assure member that conversation be take place between my official and NHS England . the research need to be base on evidence and fact , which the unit will help we to get . it be important that this debate be not a political ding - dong , and I really appreciate the tone that all member , include the Minister , have take . on evidence and fact , will he look into the impact of the national insurance contribution rise on hospice care and provision , how many hospice be run a deficit , and how many will likely go into deficit as a result of his policy ? the hon . Gentleman will not be surprised to know that I have a section in my speech on employer national insurance contribution . I will get to it . a number of colleague raise concern about regional variation . fact and evidence be very important in that context . to address that issue , NHS England have develop a palliative and end of life care dashboard , which bring together all the relevant local datum in one place . the dashboard help commissioner to understand the palliative and end of life care need of their local population , enable icb to put plan in place to address , and track the improvement of , health inequality , and to ensure that funding be distribute fairly , base on prevalence . will the Minister give way ? I will , but I have to finish at 9 . 58 pm , so there be only about five minute leave of my contribution . it be generous of the Minister to give way , so I shall be brief . would funding continue to be produce through icb , or will the system be fund centrally ? that be precisely the topic of conversation for official in my Department and NHS England , who be look at this issue in the round and decide how we will work . we need a system that empower icb to deliver at the coalface , but we also need accountability from the centre to ensure that thing be deliver . get the balance right be never easy , as I be sure the hon . Gentleman will understand ; that be what we be try to navigate . alongside NHS England , my official and I will continue to proactively engage with our stakeholder , include the voluntary sector and independent hospice , to understand the issue that they face . in fact , I will meet the major hospice and palliative care stakeholder , include Hospice UK , early next month to discuss potential solution for long - term sector sustainability . that will inform our 10 - year health plan . on the child ' s hospice grant , will the Minister confirm that it will be ringfence , and that it will go beyond the one - year settlement ? again , that be on the agenda for discussion with official . have inherit a disastrous situation , we be use 2025 - 26 to stabilise and to try to enable the sector to survive . the hon . Lady will understand that as well as do that , we be look at long - term reform solution , but when we come into power on 4 July , it be one minute to midnight , and we have to rescue the sector . that be what we be do , and we will look at the long - term issue in due course . a number of member have raise the concern around employer ' national insurance contribution . since we come to office in July , we have be completely focused on repair the catastrophic legacy of 14 year of conservative neglect and incompetence . the first step be to fix the foundation of the public finance at the autumn Budget , and that enable the spending review settlement of a £ 22 . 6 billion increase in resource spending for our health and care system . our approach to ENIC exemption have be consistent with the Office for National Statistics definition and the approach take by previous government . it do not include an exemption for independent contractor , include charity like hospice , although December ' s record funding announcement be a clear recognition of our commitment to financially support this vital sector more broadly . I ask Opposition Members from all party who luxuriate in criticise the mean by which we have raise the record funding for hospice what they would do . how would they have raise the £ 22 billion that our autumn Budget deliver ? which taxis would they raise ? which public service would they cut ? answer come there none . the Government recognise the need to protect the small business and charity , such as hospice , which be why we have more than double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 , mean that more than half of business and charity with ENIC liability either gain or see no change next year . while the debate be not about assist die , I want to say a word on the matter . my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) put forward her Bill , and it have receive its Second Reading . it be vital that our approach to end of life care and patient choice be holistic and drive by an in - depth understanding of patient need . I thank everybody across the House for this excellent debate . action speak louder than word . this Government have act to deliver the big financial contribution to hospice in a generation . I thank everyone for contribute today . this be a vital issue , and the sheer number of member who speak at such short notice show how important it be to the House . we have hear many excellent contribution , but I will not try your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker , by list those who speak . the one motif run through the speech be the need for a long - term funding plan . I hear what the Minister say about the £ 3 million NIHR investment and establish a long - term strategy . I fear that it sound like a plan for a plan , but I look forward to the 10 - year health plan , because we absolutely need a strategy for the next 10 year , not the next two year , and I will hold he to his word . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider hospice and palliative care . business without Debate ENERGY SECURITY and NET ZERO Ordered , that Ms Julie Minns be discharge from the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee and Mike Reader be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) WELSH AFFAIRS COMMITTEE Ordered , that Aphra Brandreth be discharge from the Welsh Affairs Committee and Simon Hoare be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) sixth - form College Strikes : Sussex Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) in my constituency , our young people be fortunate to have several highly regard sixth - form option , include three brilliant college just over the constituency boundary in Brighton , Hove and Horsham . Varndean be one of only a handful of state - fund college offer the prestigious international baccalaureate ; student at BHASVIC — Brighton , Hove and Sussex sixth - form college — receive over 50 offer to study at Oxford and Cambridge last year ; and Collyer ' s have the good result in west Sussex and be in the top 15 college nationally for value add . since late November , those three local college have be among 32 across England , include one in the Minister ' s constituency , that have hold seven strike day — four before Christmas and , to date , three in January . I secure this debate have already submit write parliamentary question , the answer to which far frustrate those catch up in the dispute . in my opinion , the Government have drop the ball on fairly and adequately fund non - academise sixth - form college . I feel that teacher be be treat unfairly and that student in Mid Sussex and beyond be be badly fail as a result . I thank the hon . member for raise this issue , which also affect Scarborough sixth - form college in my constituency . there be high level of deprivation in part of Scarborough , and the sixth - form college be a key route to high education or employment opportunity for young people . will she join I in praise the dedication and hard work of staff at sixth - form college not just in Scarborough , but across the country , who enable student to reach their full potential ? I agree that sixth - form college teacher do a huge amount of good , support student from a vast variety of background , include disadvantaged background . this evening , I be pleased to meet in Parliament my constituent Amelie Lockhart , a year 13 student at Varndean , and Fleur Hemmings , a philosophy teacher at Varndean . Amelie tell I that the strike be limit the time leave for year 13 student to finish their subject content , and she and her friend be worry about hit their grade for university . Sam , a BHASVIC student from Haywards Heath , say : " I ' m worried about learn all the content for my a - level at this crucial point in my life but I support the teacher in this strike . " similarly , a year 12 double math student from BHASVIC tell I that because they complete a - level math in just one year , the strike mean that he have already miss out on the teaching of several full topic of learn crucial to his exam in June . in addition , BTec student start exam last week just as three day of strike take effect , and university applicant who need extra support — often student from more disadvantaged background or with special educational need — have be impact just before the end of January application deadline . lily from Haywards Heath , who study at Collyer ' s , say : " these strike disrupt my learning during mock week . I didn ' t have the proper class time to prepare for my exam . of course I support the teacher . I think they should get the proper salary they deserve . " I commend the hon . Lady for secure the debate . I speak to she beforehand to mention an example and support her position . there have be similar strike in Northern Ireland , and teacher ' strike be approach . the main thing my constituent tell I be that student , who be already under enormous pressure during exam period , must not be leave struggle under undue duress and pressure . when it come to sort out these problem , do she agree that , although wage increase for teacher be important , the issue face student must not be ignore ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention and agree that the impact on student be at the centre of the debate . Emma , a parent from Hurstpierpoint , have say to I that it be madness for the Government to think that they could agree a deal with one set of teacher and exclude another . meanwhile , a BHASVIC parent tell I that they support the teacher but be frustrate that their child , who be let down during covid by a Conservative Government , be now be let down by a Labour Government , too . so it be that teacher such as Fleur decide to go on strike , with a heavy heart . they be mindful that student get just two short year at college to study and prepare for their future and that every day count . for our year 12 and year 13 student , this be just the late round of disruption that their education have be subject to : they be in year 7 and 8 when the first covid lockdown be announce and do not get back into school for six month . that have a profound impact not just on their learning but on their social and emotional development , with soar rate of mental ill health and school absenteeism still be widely report five year later . then , during 2022 and 2023 , there be further round of strike in those student ' school . as Arianne from Haywards Heath , who be a BHASVIC student , say this week : " the most frustrating thing be the loss of routine . the strike have make it hard to integrate back into college after Christmas . we can ' t get as much support from teacher for coursework , which might affect our grade . it feel very disengaging . none the less , I still support the teacher strike and understand that if change be go to happen you have get to do something disruptive . " on Friday , I be at Marple college , where a number of young learner talk to I about the really important element of quality teaching and how they help , just as my hon . friend lay out . she have mention a number of her constituent who have make exactly the same point . I have also be contact by Danny Pearson , the principal of Aquinas college , who know that my hon . Friend have secure the debate . I want to share one sentence of his . he say : " we really should be put student and their education first and it seem a great shame that we can not avert these strike and get sixth form teacher back where they belong , in front of our student . " do my hon . friend agree with I and Danny that the Government should do more to get brilliant teacher back in front of their student , where they belong ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . I absolutely agree that more need to be do , and with urgency . why would sixth - form teacher take this step and cause more disruption to their student ? I think that these strike have come about because of sheer frustration at an illogical pay offer that effectively create a two - tier sixth - form system . in July , the Government accept the recommendation of the School Teachers ' Review Body to increase the pay of teacher in school by 5 . 5 % , and £ 1 . 2 billion of funding be provide for that pay award , but the Government exclude teacher at non - academise sixth - form college , yet they do exactly the same job as those in academise sixth - form college and at maintain school . so far , the Government have provide two explanation for that illogical decision . first , in response to my parliamentary question , they say : " the government be not responsible for set or make recommendation about teacher pay in further education … college , include sixth form college . " one college principal I have talk to describe that explanation as " inaccurate at well , deceptive at bad " . in fact , the Government have make a choice . they could have choose to provide more funding to college to help fund pay award , but they do not . there be precedent for make that choice : in 2023 , the then Conservative Education Secretary choose to provide more money for all college through the 16 to 19 funding formula . this choice be cost some student valuable teaching time , while other — in some case at school just down the road — be have no such trouble . the Government ' s second explanation be that they be face a " very challenging fiscal context " . they be able to find £ 1 . 2 billion for the initial pay award but say they could not provide the extra £ 19 million need to end the strike . that relatively small amount would ensure pay parity for teacher everywhere in the country and , in do so , stop student from needlessly miss out on vital day of education . as the 2023 funding settlement prove , it be absolutely possible to extend support to all sixth - form college and there be no legal or technical reason to prevent it . it be a choice in the gift of the Government . to add insult to injury , sixth - form college be already face significant funding inequality . accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies , Government spending on student in those college be 26 % low than it be for student in secondary school , and unlike school and academy they can not reclaim vat , cost they around £ 350 , 000 per year on average . there be also the long - term implication of the widen pay gap . the IFS have estimate that as a result of last year ' s 5 . 5 % pay award for schoolteacher and the 2 . 5 % increase for college teacher , the pay gap in this academic year will be the high on record — £ 7 , 000 , or 18 % . my constituent Jo , a senior sixth - form college teacher and a mentor for early - career teacher , tell I that one of her mentee have already have to leave Brighton and return to Newcastle as he could not afford to live in the south - east , and another of her current mentee be find it difficult to survive on his teaching salary . she say that the erosion of teacher ' pay over the past decade , together with the high cost of live in this part of the country , mean that Sussex be lose very good teacher . in her word , that be a direct threat to current and future student . the Government must take urgent action to ensure that teacher in sixth - form college receive the 5 . 5 % pay award , backdate from 1 September 2024 . that be essential if we want to ensure that student ' education be not far disrupt . as we have hear , there be a clear and compelling case for provide funding to sixth - form college . the Government must change course . they appear to have belatedly realise that they make the wrong choice and have recently offer a staggered pay rise , with the 5 . 5 % pay award apply from 1 April . however , that would still leave a pay discrepancy of £ 2 , 000 for no logical reason , other than — I presume — not be see to backtrack completely from their ridiculous initial decision . the Government must prioritise the education of student from Sussex and across the country , and must ensure that sixth - form college can continue to recruit and retain excellent teaching staff . Varndean , BHASVIC and Collyer ' s be currently offer some of the very good opportunity within the state sector to our country ' s 16 to 18 - year - old , but that be at risk if the Labour Government do not urgently address the inequality they be exacerbate in the sector . I close in the strong term , by urge the Minister and the Government to reconsider their approach ; to find the small amount of money remain to ensure that teacher be pay the same for the same job ; and to finally put this cohort of student , whose education be most affect by covid disruption , at the centre of decision make by Government that affect they . I congratulate the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) on secure a debate on this important subject . I will endeavour to respond to as many of the point as possible . since take on the role of Minister for Skills , my noble Friend in the other place have meet many of our amazing teacher , support staff and leader in the further education sector , include our sixth - form college sector . I thank all those people for the excellent work that they do , day in and day out . alongside school , FE college and other FE provider , sixth - form college play a vital role in transform the life of our young people , break down their barrier to opportunity and ensure they can progress into further training , high education and high - quality career . this be central to our mission of deliver economic growth , ensure and enable success not just for individual but for our community , our company and our country . college , teacher , technician , and everyone who support student be important to we , and this Government will treat they with the value and respect they deserve . the Government believe — as Labour government always do — that education be about opportunity , and that the role of government be to extend opportunity to young people from every background and every corner of this country . the Government ' s commitment to the education of young people be plain to see in our Chancellor ' s Budget announcement of an additional £ 300 million for further education , to ensure young people be gain the education and skill that they and this country need . our fantastic sixth - form college will benefit from that increase , and we announce on Friday that we be make approximately £ 15 million of that funding available to sixth - form college and general FE college for April to July 2025 . this one - off grant will enable college to respond to current priority and challenge , include workforce recruitment and retention . the remain funding will be make available in 16 - to - 19 funding rate for the academic year 2025 - 26 , with the aim of ensure that all 16 - to - 19 provider be fund on an equitable basis from 2025 to 2026 . this be in the context of a very challenging fiscal landscape , and it demonstrate the value we place on further education . I do of course acknowledge the challenge that sixth - form college and their teacher face , and the concern about the disparity with schoolteacher follow the schoolteacher pay award in July . the schoolteacher award be make in line with the recommendation of the independent School Teachers Review Body . however , pay in the fe sector , include in sixth - form college , be a matter for college themselves , not the Government . college be able to base pay on their specific need and be not bind by the schoolteacher pay award or related term and condition . as member will know , FE college , include sixth - form college , be incorporate under the term of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992 , which give they autonomy over the pay and the contractual term and condition of their staff . on the six - day strike action that have take place in this academic year , I know that both sixth - form college teacher and leader be always concerned to ensure that the impact on young people be minimise as far as possible , and I acknowledge the information that the hon . Lady have share about some of those student ' experience . as I have say , I know that both sixth - form college teacher and leader be always concerned about the impact on young people . some of their arrangement include provide online learning where possible , and keep library and learn centre open to allow for independent study . I know that both sixth - form college teacher and leader will continue to consider and mitigate the impact of strike on young people during the course of any industrial action . we encourage open and constructive dialogue by all party in the good interest of staff and student . we all have the share goal of ensure that our young people gain the very good education during this critical transition period . our great FE teacher play a critical role in the life of young people . we know that high - quality teaching generate high - quality outcome for learner , and this be why we need more great fe teacher , include in critical subject area . after a decade in which education be far from the heart of Government thinking , the new Labour Government be bring about change at pace . it be for this reason that we be commit to recruit 6 , 500 new expert teacher across our school — both mainstream and specialist — and college over the course of this Parliament . our measure will include get more teacher into skill shortage subject , support area that face recruitment challenge and tackle retention issue . we have begin to make good early progress towards this key pledge . we have already roll out our target retention incentive to teacher in further education , include sixth - form college , to boost recruitment and retention . for the first time , this give eligible early career fe teacher in key STEM — science , technology , engineering and math — and technical shortage subject up to £ 6 , 000 after tax annually on top of their normal pay . in addition , the Taking Teaching further programme make it easy for provider to recruit and retain those with relevant industry knowledge by provide early career support to help their transition into teaching . we also continue to support recruitment and retention with teacher training bursary worth up to £ 30 , 000 , tax - free , in certain key subject area . this be a huge problem in my constituency . between Sparsholt agricultural college , which provide specialist training , as have just be mention , and Peter Symonds sixth - form college , which be one of the big sixth - form college in the country , a total of almost 9 , 000 student be affect by this pay disparity and the result dispute just in my constituency alone . do the Minister agree that the Government need to start view education as an investment not just in our young people , but to grow the economy , not purely as a cost to be cut , which seem to have be the case over the last few year ? I thank the hon . member for mention those 9 , 000 - plus student from his area . this Government be interested in and passionate about break down the barrier that prevent young people from progress and , with one in eight young people not in training , education or employment , we recognise the need to give young people the skill and training that they need , and support into employment . that be one of the key focus and mission of this Government , and we be totally committed to it . the national further education teacher recruitment campaign be raise awareness and consideration of career in FE . to find out more and plan next step , it encourage people to visit the website teach in FE , which receive more than 450 , 000 visit in 2023 - 24 . we be committed to ensure that we recruit and retain more teacher across school and college in our country . we be take those step to ensure that we attract and retain high - quality teacher across our school and college , which form part of our aim to create a clear , flexible high - quality skill system that support people of all age , break down barrier to opportunity and drive economic growth . we have establish Skills England to ensure that we have the highly train workforce need to deliver the national , regional and local skill need of the next decade , align with the upcoming industrial strategy . skill England will work closely with employer , union , Departments , local organisation and other agency . skill England will ensure that the skill system be clear for employer and deliver the training that they need . it will play a key role in support the skilled workforce need to deliver the Government ' s five mission : drive economic growth ; break down barrier to opportunity ; support our NHS ; safe street ; and our clean energy transition . that link to our commitment to 1 . 5 million more home , and seize the opportunity of net zero to create hundred of thousand of good job . Skills England will ensure that the skill system be clear for individual , include young people and old adult , strengthen career pathway into job across the economy . the Government ' s dedication to skill reflect the utmost importance that we place on transform life and the economy . I thank the hon . member for Mid Sussex for secure this debate on such a vital matter , and I thank other member for their contribution . I reiterate my thank to the wonderful teacher and leader who make such a difference to the prospect of our young people . this debate have give I the opportunity to talk about our plan for post - 16 education and skill , which be essential for break down the barrier to opportunity and for the country ' s economic growth . the additional £ 300 million of funding for FE , as well as the target retention incentive , teacher training bursary , the taking teach further programme and our teach in FE campaign , demonstrate the value we place on the FE workforce , include our excellent teacher and leader in sixth - form college . I pay tribute to the transformative work that FE staff do day in , day out . high - quality teaching be one of the big influence in positive learner outcome , provide learner with the skill and knowledge they need to succeed . I be sure that we will continue to discuss skill and 16 to 18 - year - old education in the come month , because the Government recognise the importance of improve prospect for young people and how that link to our plan to drive economic growth . fe teacher be and will remain central to those plan . question put and agree to . House adjourn .