prayer the First Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) and negative . New Homes ( Solar Generation ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I move the Bill with sunshine in my heart . I be an environmentalist , I have fight for year to improve the housing market in my town of Cheltenham , and I strongly believe that we all deserve a fair deal on the cost of living . I be elect in July after campaign on those three issue , and I move second reading of the Bill with those issue in mind . I thank hon . member who have take the time to attend today ' s debate , and I urge they to retain a sunny disposition for the next few hour . I be happy to take intervention from member from across the House , but I hope hon . member will not use they to throw too much shade . I promise a warm response regardless , and I hope the Minister will provide the same . today , we can all make a commitment to a bright future by back the sunshine Bill . it will be a future in which people have low household bill ; we be less reliant on dirty and expensive fossil fuel , often import from abroad ; and the country ' s energy supply be more secure . this future be a vision support by voter across political divide , as well as by industry . before I get to the core of my speech , I ask hon . member to think back a few short year , to the start of the energy bill crisis . householder endure a 54 % rise in the energy price cap in April 2022 , and bill remain 43 % high than they be before the crisis . that cause widespread fuel poverty . we witness another shocking increase in food bank use , business go bust , job be lose and family holiday plan be cancel . the crisis also lay bare how short - sighted past ideological decision be to slow down the roll - out of renewable technology . imagine an alternative . imagine that more home include solar power generation during that crisis , and in the ongoing crisis . bill could and should have be hundred of pound low for everyone ; householder would have be insulate against high bill ; and our nation would have be safe and strong . food bank would have be less busy , and the Government would not have be force to give such large subsidy to ensure that people could get by . at the heart of the discussion be a press need to tackle twin crisis : the cost of living and climate change . as hon . member will know , the climate change discussion often lead we to debate difficult trade - off — the Government be grapple with those and they have my good wish in do so — but solar energy generation on new build home be very much not in that category . the Bill help we to tackle the cost of living and climate change — a clear win - win . MCS Foundation research have show that the payback period for a solar array on a three - bedroom semi - detached house be just four year , when that array be combine with other technology that will be widely available in the next few year . over a 25 - year mortgage , the saving stand at a whopping £ 38 , 000 . Solar technology also offer homeowner the chance to profit directly . the Energy Saving Trust estimate that a typical household could make between £ 270 and £ 400 a year . on the environmental side , research by Solar Energy UK show that building account for 20 % of all UK emission in 2023 . the Government have place build new home at the heart of their agenda , which I support . I genuinely welcome today ' s Second reading of the Bill . have bring two private member ' Bills through Parliament from the Back Benches , I wish the hon . gentleman every success ; it can be a long journey . will he say more about the impact of solar panel on the environment and the green belt ? in the shift towards use more solar panel , I fear many of the panel will be instal on prime agricultural land . I be disappointed that in Walsall , the planning inspector have just give permission for a battery storage facility on the edge of my constituency , right by a conservation area . I feel strongly that we need to look at alternative place for solar panel in order to protect community and our green belt . the right hon . Lady be entirely right . she and member across the House will have note that the campaign to protect Rural England have take a strong interest in this issue and in the Bill , for precisely the reason she describe , with which I have a lot of sympathy . efficient use of land and space in this country be extremely important . if we be to achieve the new home building target that the Government have set out , we must ensure that new build home be equip for the challenge of the future , which include climate change and look after our environment . if we do not change the standard for new housing stock , we not only miss an economic opportunity but put the environment at risk . the Government ' s own advisory body , the Climate Change Committee , have advise that the UK will not meet its emission target without the " near complete decarbonisation " of housing stock . that be why it be so important that the new Government , specifically the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change , have move the conversation along , not least as show by the answer to a question that I ask the right hon . Gentleman before Christmas , in which he say he be " very sympathetic " to the case for mandatory solar panel on new build home . he be right . the case for update the regulation be irrefutable . the regulation that govern building work be set out in the Building Act 1984 , which be the year I be bear , and the Building Regulations 2010 , which be so long ago that member will be disturb to learn that I still have a large Brylcreem bill in those day . the previous Government consult on the future home standard , but we be not able to respond before the general election . it be hearten that the current Government have promise a response and to pick up that work . there will of course be strong pushback from some developer , who will default to think about profit only . I understand that profit motive , but I urge developer to think about the planet and what their customer be demand . I be pleased to see the Bill in the House today , but be not quite so entrance by the hon . member ' s pun , or by his make I feel completely and utterly ancient . set aside that niggle , on a serious point , do he agree that it be important for we to have a secure supply chain for solar panel , and that we eliminate the use of solar panel build by Uyghur people subject to force labour in China ? the hon . Member make a very reasonable point . we need to be clear that our supply chain in this country be free from slave labour . that be a matter for Government procurement rule , and I understand that measure on that will come to the House in due course . as I be say , I understand the developer ’ motive and why some will push back , but developer know what we all know , which be that the technology already exist and that implement the measure in the sunshine Bill will be relatively straightforward for they . solar panel technology have be available for many year and the construction industry be accustom to work with it . mandate installation at the construction stage be logical ; it remove the burden from homeowner , and place the responsibility with the developer . I thank my hon . friend for bring the Bill to the House . it be so important that it almost feel like a no - brainer . many of my resident share with I their frustration about try to navigate the process of instal solar panel . there be question about which provider to go with , how it work , and all the technical detail . do he agree that not only do the Bill have an environmental benefit , but it will — as he have start to explain — take that burden from resident and empower they ? they will benefit from low bill without all the faff . my hon . friend be entirely right . as she know , the Bill include a recommendation to set an industry standard , so that consumer can have confidence in what they be buy . not only be the burden remove from homeowner and responsibility place with developer , but the Bill create an efficiency save in human resource and material . it be an entirely logical step to take . instal solar panel on roof while the house be be build be at least 10 % cheap than retrofit . there will be issue around cost , which member might raise in intervention or in speech , but Government estimate put the cost of mandatory solar panel on all new home at around £ 5 , 200 per home . that sound like a lot of money in isolation , but the average cost of a new build in the final quarter of 2024 be far in excess of £ 400 , 000 , so we be talk about little more than 1 % of the price of a new build home . that be next to nothing in the context of a monthly mortgage repayment , if we take the figure in raw form , and it would be offset by low bill . this Bill would mandate that all new home be build with solar generation technology cover the roof space — a minimum of 40 % of the equivalent of the building ' s ground - floor area . I too be interested in solar panel be mandate on public building . in my area , Rednock school have have solar panel retrofit . solar panel in educational facility have two effect : they not only save money for the school , but teach young people about the issue . also in my area , the NHS be look to put solar panel on all south - face roof of hospital . I wonder if we could extend the Bill to public building in general . I take the hon . member ' s point on board entirely , and agree with he . this Bill be limit to residential new build ; I be very conscious that in the public sector , the cost of initial installation would be bear by the taxpayer . he be right to reference school . in my constituency , Bournside school be instal a huge ground source heat pump . that be a national , leading case study . he be right that it be important that young people understand what be go on . with regard to industry standard , we need to make sure that there be an industry - wide regulator and a certification scheme . the industry need proper regulation to give consumer confidence in the product . supply chain be mention . to give supply chain , the construction industry and developer time to adjust , the Bill propose that the regulation apply from 1 October 2026 . minister may have comment on whether that be a realistic timescale — they might want to make it long . I be sure that there will be a discussion . reasonable exemption need to apply , include for very tall building ; for building on which it would not be economical to install solar panel , due to roof size or other factor ; and for building that have other form of renewable energy generation instal that be more appropriate for that setting . where building can not physically accommodate solar panel that cover at least 40 % of the building ' s ground - floor area , the Bill require that solar panel be instal to the maximum extent possible . it be important to take part in some myth bust . to dispel one big myth about solar panel , they do not always need a clear , sunny day to work ; they will continue to work in overcast , cloudy condition . I think we can all agree that that be good news for this country . to dispel another myth , solar panel can be instal to good effect on north - face roof , although efficiency will be a little low . the overwhelming strength of the case for the measure mean that the sunshine Bill have gather support from industry . over Christmas , several business and industry organisation sign an open letter to the Government in which they declare their support for the Bill . I be grateful for the support of the MCS Foundation , Solar Energy UK , Eco2Solar , E . on Next and Ecotricity . I be particularly grateful to the MCS Foundation for its assistance and advice on technical matter in these last few month . I thank the hon . member for let I interrupt his excellent speech , which be load with fantastic pun that I would be very proud of . what discussion have he have with industry on make sure that we have the correct skill pipeline , so that we have enough installer and other people require to ensure that solar panel be instal efficiently and effectively , and to maximise the economic benefit to this country ? the hon . member be absolutely right . he will recall that if we go back more than a decade , there be a thriving solar energy industry in this country . sadly , we have take step back over the last few year when it come to the skill pipeline . I know that issue be on this Government ' s agenda , and I welcome that . on the date on which we might look at this , we hope that further education college will put on course to train people up , and that there would be more industry work , too . will the hon . member explain why his Bill exclude the use of solar thermal panel ? the Bill focus on solar photovoltaic . solar thermal panel be a different type of technology and be not cover by the Bill . I would also like to thank CPRE . the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) speak early about the preservation of land and field in green area , and the CPRE be specifically interested from that perspective . this be become increasingly worrying , because we be now start to see policy on grey belt . I fear that if we do not thoroughly grasp the issue of where solar panel , battery storage and all the other renewable infrastructure should go , we risk green belt be all of a sudden redefine as grey belt , in a few year ' time , and be build on . the right hon . Lady speak powerfully for her constituency , which I know have a specific issue . we mention housing developer , and one housing developer have put its head above the parapet to support the Bill . I be grateful for the support of Thakeham , and it be to be applaud for support the measure . developer should support the Bill for sound business reason . there be a clear market preference for home with solar panel , and a relatively small proportion of the price will be reward with a decent payback , and customer want they . politically , there be demonstrable cross - party support . in the last Parliament , 79 % of Members be find to be supportive , and I suspect the percentage be high in this new Parliament . the climate barometer track support for mandatory solar panel on new build and find a clear majority of support among all party ' voter , so do this would place we at the centre of political gravity . some 80 % of conservative voter , 89 % of Labour voter , 92 % of Liberal Democrat voter and 63 % of Reform supporter respond to the survey in favour of mandatory solar panel for new build home . those same constituent rightly look to we to make the right and logical decision on these matter . they back the measure because all the evidence point to clear benefit at every level , include the Government ' s positive agenda on energy and climate . MCS Foundation research have find that mandatory solar panel on 1 . 5 million home would be the equivalent of two additional Sizewell C nuclear power station , which should give we all pause for thought . for a country that struggle to build infrastructure , we must not look past these easy , small - scale win . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on introduce the Bill . he talk about the nuclear power that may not be need if we have solar panel on house . do he have a view on how much pressure we could take off demand on green land for solar farm , because many people have concern about that use of green land , if we have solar panel on new build ? my strong suspicion be that the market will help to decide the answer to that question , but it be inevitable that if we produce more energy from some source , it will lower demand in other area . the hon . Gentleman make a good point . I visit Hinkley Point on a school trip as an 11 - year - old and be tell , very excitedly , that a new Hinkley C be on the way . I regret to tell the House that I be now 40 and , on current projection , Hinkley C be not expect to generate any power until I be at least 44 . on the point of time , the new home build today will outlast we all . if we can make they work well for the planet , they will be a lasting testament to this House ' s effort to tackle climate change , and they will offer protection against the energy shock we have all endure too . that be what we have the chance to do today , if Ministers be willing to support the principle of the sunshine Bill . we can not and should not let this opportunity pass we by , and it be our duty to build a political consensus here to match the consensus among member of the public . so to paraphrase the great Morecambe and Wise in the song that share the informal name we have give to this Bill , let our arm be as warm as the sun up above , and let we think about how much joy we can give to each brand new bright tomorrow — if only we can lower people ' s energy bill and help to tackle climate change too . I thank the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) for introduce the Bill . I will try not to cloud the Chamber too much with pun ; I will leave it to other hon . member to shower the room with they . [ laughter . ] it ' s so painful . I be glad that the Bill have be bring forward . there be so many good thing in it , and I want to ensure that the country as a whole can embrace the future of solar power generation where people live , right in the heart of community and on their home . I have move in the past year or so to ground level , as many people in my constituency know and frequently comment about on Facebook . I have live most of my adult life in tower block , and one of the great thing about 1960 council tower block be that there be fantastic view over everybody ' s roof . in all the decade I live in those tower block , it be apparent that we be miss out in this country . so much acreage on rooftop be empty and devoid of power generation , while other country have leap ahead and take advantage . at the same time , I have see where this have not quite work . I watch a new council housing block be build right next to the previous place I live in . over its rooftop , I see the solar panel go in and then see what the problem be , where the management company and the local council be not quite able to make it work and to generate power for people there . the solar panel be for a long time unused and not function . that be the sign of a technology that be not quite mature , and it be only in the past five year that that have happen . when , like I , member go around their constituency , they will see lot of solar panel on house and have lot of conversation with people in pub who have instal they on their house . some people will have have a great experience and will talk at length about how it have reduce their bill , and unfortunately other tell of the problem and challenge of get connect to the grid and make it work . that be not a reason not to do it , but it be a reason to have a clear eye as we go forward on this change . hopefully , the Minister will talk about how we can ensure that this policy be successful in future . there be load of opportunity , but we should not lose sight of other opportunity as well . one of the most impressive thing I have see in my constituency from an industrial side be the cluster of factory around Kemsley paper mill from DS Smith . a third of the cardboard produce in the UK be recycle in that one location . it be part of a set of factory that use their waste product and heat to generate power themselves in a circular carbon economy . a key part be more traditional form of power production . for instance , all the cardboard that be not use in those factory and that can not be recycle be turn into electricity , and carbon capture be use . the carbon capture process be then use to support work in other factory , such as the production of plasterboard , and the waste heat be use . the factory be already do great work , and they want to expand far with solar power , particularly on an old landfill site , which be perfectly place . that be a great opportunity , but there be also the factory roof . not all the building be suitable , but as we build on that cluster and can generate power locally , and as we build more home around they and in that area to provide power , solar power have an important part to play . I very much want to see that we be able to change our building regulation and to ensure they meet the need and opportunity from factory , but , at the same time , we must not close our eye to the fact that there be many other way of ensure that we reach a zero - carbon future . fix the housing crisis be absolutely not mutually exclusive with fix the climate crisis . the hon . Member rightly identify the cost of live crisis and the climate crisis . I would add in the housing crisis as a third part of that , and I can see he do not disagree . this point have be make a few time , but it be almost as if there be a tension between protect our natural environment and make progress on renewable energy source . it be not a choice between the two ; one be central to the other . as a former councillor , I know that it be vital that community voice be hear in this . if there be one thing that upset local community , it be when they be not involve in conversation on matter that directly impact they and the area they live in . do my hon . friend agree ? I wholeheartedly agree . I give the example of a power generator on a roof not work , and that come down to the fact that the local community be not involve . the resident on the block see no benefit from it , but it be cause they problem , include leak in the roof and all sort of other stuff . it be vital that we have not just a circular energy economy but a circular economic and monetary economy so that people see the benefit in their pocket as well as in the light and heating in their home . I be keen to hear from the Minister what the Government plan to do to change the building regulation , meet the aspiration in the Bill and ensure that we have a comprehensive strategy to progress towards a zero - carbon , net zero future , while ensure that that do not get in the way of tackle local environmental problem — biodiversity and so on — or the housing and cost of live crisis . those thing be all join up . that be how developer will work and deliver , and how we can ensure that that happen . we all know that implementation be the tricky part of policy . the intention be very straightforward — and this Bill be full of great intention — but get the implementation right will be the challenge . we have have 14 year of hot and cold climate policy . sometimes the previous Government go hell for leather on tackle climate change ; at other point , they do not seem so certain . as well as developer , business and household have struggle with that , because they have not be sure of the direction of travel . I be hopeful that our new Government will now focus on stability as a key plank of our growth agenda , give developer , community and household the certainty they need to plan together . everyone be look for that framework . some area and town face great challenge on housing and housing need . in Sheerness in my constituency , for example , the housing stock be of deteriorate quality . much of it be post - war council housing , which , unsurprisingly in a coastal area , be not last and have high maintenance cost . we need a comprehensive renewal that bring in not just well housing , but the opportunity to leapfrog several stage in environmental learning and energy production , and ensure that energy production be bring into the heart of town in my constituency and those of other hon . member . my hon . friend be speak with great passion about his constituent — that be always great to hear . when it come to new home , we must consider their efficiency from top to bottom . the Bill will add solar panel to new home — we all welcome that , and I be happy to support it — but we must go far by ensure that our home be as efficient , warm and cheap to heat as possible . in Scotland , the private Member ' s Bill introduce by Alex Rowley MSP could mean that all home in Scotland be build to the Passivhaus standard , which I think be the gold standard right now . do my hon . friend think that we should aspire to that ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for come in on that point , and I very much agree . although my constituency be generally not quite as cold and damp as part of Scotland , it be pretty cold and damp , and when the wind come along the Swale it can get quite cold , as people who live in north Kent will know . the quality of housing stock , include insulation , need attention . that be what I mean by a comprehensive picture ; it be about not just power generation , but ensure that we do not waste power and that the effect be ultimately feel in people ' s pocket . I know that other member will talk with great expertise and in great depth about thing happen in their constituency and the opportunity that they see , and I look forward to listen to they . as we move forward , we must learn from past mistake and from current great practice , and ensure that these policy actually work , unlike in the false start of the past . I congratulate the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) on his good fortune in secure a place in the ballot in order to introduce what be , without doubt , a very important Bill . I be , however , concerned about the scope of the Bill , and I will come to that in a moment , if I may — I do not propose to take very long . for many year , I have consistently oppose the installation of solar farm — of course , they be not farm at all — on agricultural land . in east Kent , we be lose grade 1 agricultural land far too frequently , both to development and to be use for solar power generation . it be completely unnecessary . as I have say many time , both in this House and outside it , we have acre and acre of rooftop in public ownership , on public building — school , hospital and prison — in addition to acre of car park space , which the French would be cover in solar panel . if we use all of that , I can see no need whatsoever to use for these purpose fine agricultural land that should be use for grow crop for feed people . that be why I think that the scope of the Bill , good though it may be , do not go far enough . we must look , not just at new build , but at what exist and what can and should be do . by the bye , I would go a stage far and say that we should not only be look at solar panel , but at grey water system . we waste gallon and gallon of water off the rooftop of this country , which of course can not then soak into the land because we have cover it in tarmac , so it be not replenish the aquifer . that water ought to be use for flush lavatory and matter that do not require potable water . again , I think there be a trick that may have be miss . quite clearly , what be go to happen be that the developer and the builder will scream like stuck pig . for why ? let we take a development in Herne Bay in my constituency . I will not name the developer , because I would hate to upset Taylor Wimpey , but it have avoid instal electric vehicle charging point because there be a bit of wriggle room — the amount that it would add to the cost of the property — that allow it to get off the hook . I do not doubt that instal solar panel initially would add to the first purchase price of the property , which of course might eat into profit , and we would hate to see that . but this be essential . we have to do this , and it be long past time . I notice that the Bill give 2026 as the start date ; I can see no reason whatsoever why we should not start immediately and say that , from now on , every new build should be fit with photovoltaic panel . there be another issue , which be the design of the technology . we all know that retrofit solar panel be pretty unattractive — hideous , to be blunt about it . it surprise I that , in this day and age , those develop this technology have not go far enough and fast enough to develop attractive panel that be simply roof like any other roof . it have get to be possible to develop a photovoltaic tile that could be use on list building , but that have not happen . I just want to advise the right hon . member that several product of the type he be reference be available on the market at the moment . if the hon . Gentleman can tell I of a photovoltaic tile that be acceptable to the people who be enforce regulation relate to list building , I would be delighted to hear it . that be what I be try to come on to before I be interrupt . Kent , a wonderful county , have very many grade II list building , and at present , it be not permit to use solar panel — or solar tile , as I would like to see they — on those list building . it be not even permit on other building , outbuilding , cottage or whatever within the curtilage of a list building . that rule out a considerable quantity of property that can and should accommodate solar panel . King ' s College in Cambridge , one of the old and most prestigious heritage building , now have a fine array of solar panel that it manage to get through planning permission . do the right hon . Member agree that what we need in plan term be for material weight to be give to climate change , as well as conservation status ? that be where the crux of the matter be . it would allow all those who be responsible for list home or who have home in conservation area to do energy efficiency in the right way . up to a point , I agree with the hon . Lady , but only up to a point . I do not want to see the fine building of Kent smother in hideous installation , so we have to find a way technically of make the panel acceptable . I accept entirely that retrofitting be much hard than new build . it be possible to inset photovoltaic panel into a new roof on a new build , but it be much hard to retrofit it attractively . I would like to see we make much more effort to go down that road , so that we come up with product that be acceptable across the board — not just for new build , but for exist building . it be essential that this Bill have a second reading , and I will be support it today . there be flaw in it , but that be what the Committee stage be about , and we should allow the Bill to go into Committee . if I may say to the hon . member for Cheltenham , there be rather too much wriggle room . I can see canny developer find way of exploit some of the exemption , if we be not careful , that he have write into the Bill . do my right hon . friend agree that an unintended consequence of this Bill could be that it be no long possible to build a new thatched house ? in Dorset and Hampshire , we welcome people who be develop new thatched house . how will that work with this Bill ? the Bill do accommodate exemption , and my hon . friend make a case in point . in the village I live in , we have thatch building , and I would like to see more of they . there may be case where an exemption should be permit , but look at the Bill as it stand , it seem that these loophole be wide open to exploitation , and they will have to be tighten up . that , however , be the purpose of the Committee . let we give the Bill its second reading , get it into Committee , amend it and bring it back on Report and Third Reading , and then let we see it become law . one of my previous employer use to run a competition for schoolchildren . they ask they to draw a picture of a well future where we tackle our climate and ecological crisis . the entry be display on a wall close to my office , and many time a day I pass they and look at they . many young people have choose to show a contrast . on one side of the page be often a burn world — now painfully familiar from our news feed , as our dear friend in California find their world set alight , and I be also remind to remember our neighbour here in the UK still reel from our recent flood . the child ' s picture be sadly a good predictor of the threat , but on the other side of the page , where they show their hope for tomorrow , child often draw home surround by tree with happy people play outside in the sunshine . without fail , on the rooftop of the house in those picture be solar panel . our child understand that a bright and sustainable future depend on clean and sustainable energy . our Government ' s mission to make the UK a clean energy superpower be a direct response to the climate crisis and a clear mission to make energy secure and affordable . photovoltaic fit the bill perfectly — simple , reliable and effective , they be the pure form of renewable energy , convert photon directly into electrical power , and we can place that power directly in the hand of homeowner . the need for we to embrace solar power as part of a suite of energy technology for a sustainable future be clear . alongside offshore wind and underpin by storage use green hydrogen , solar photovoltaic be a key technology for the UK to decarbonise its electricity and all the sector and use case that we electrify . while the use of land for solar generation be rightly contend , we have a vast and perfectly design , yet barely tap , resource on our rooftop . resident in my constituency be aghast that a mega 840 MW solar farm be be propose by the Blenheim estate , which , people believe , have not allow solar panel to be place on the house it have develop in the area . do the hon . Member agree that place solar panel on the roof of house be a much well way to diversify solar panel and build the community consent for the renewable transition that be part of the Government ' s mission ? I fully agree . many people have tell I that , intuitively , they would like solar to be put on roof first . I think there be strong consensus that that should be our direction . my hon . friend the Member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) talk about some of the challenge of retrofitting . we need to listen to the social science , harness new initiative such as GB Energy and activate local authority to empower ordinary people to retrofit solar . we must develop way for people to easily access trust partner to help they decarbonise their home and save money as a result . the average price to install solar panel post build be somewhere between £ 5 , 000 and £ 8 , 000 . the majority of people do not have that kind of cash stick down the back of the sofa . do the hon . Member agree that support the Bill be an investment both in our environment and in reduce energy bill for all new homeowner , not just those who have the cash to do so ? I agree . as we face a transition in a range of technology — my professional background be in heat — it be important that we put consumer at the heart of that and ensure that it work for they , and that we find way to make it accessible , easy , affordable and beneficial to embrace new technology . there be new business model available that can help we do that — heat as a service , for example — and we need to embrace those . but whatever we do as we navigate the transition , it be vital that we put people at the heart of what we build . have work in the energy sector for 20 year , there be one comment that I have hear , and utter myself , very many time — more than I can possibly count : " we should be put solar on every new home . " there be very few no - brainer in politic , but if any exist , surely that be one of they . we have the opportunity to make a crucial change , to stop grow the problem and start solve it . put solar power on every new home will save people money . it will boost our national renewable capacity . it will be a crucial step in our mission for clean energy . and it will mean that for our child , who hope for a well future for people and our planet , we can begin to deliver the home that they have always dream of . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) for introduce the Bill . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . just after the general election , Ministers make the shock decision that the Sunnica solar farm in Ely and East Cambridgeshire would go ahead , despite the planning inspector ' s recommendation that it should not . the farm will cover a vast area of our green space , use up prime farming land — land that could be set aside for the benefit of nature , and land that we might have use to build much - need new home . no soon have that solar farm get permission than the lovely glossy leaflet for the next one come through the door about the next consultation , on an even big solar farm across my constituency , and other . yet , as we have hear , we have acre and acre of roof space that we could put solar panel on . why be we not do that ? a couple of year ago , I be on a planning committee visit to a new housing estate that be be build , and I notice that there be just one , or sometimes two , solar panel on each roof . I say to the developer , " why just one or two ? that ' s hardly make a dent in thing . " his answer be , " that be all we be require to do . " I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , because I be a councillor on Mid Sussex district council . some four year ago , I be sit in training on a cross - party basis with Conservatives , Greens , Independents and Liberal Democrats , and we ask our planning officer , " why can ' t we mandate that all new build have solar panel on the roof ? " we be tell that we be not allow to , because it be not in the nppf as it stand at that time . do my hon . friend agree that , in order to make the case for house building and tackle the housing emergency , we need to be able to convince the public that we be build high - quality house that be fit for a climate crisis and that be energy efficient to reduce bill ? I entirely agree . we have a similar frustration when look at revise our local plan , because we want to put thing in about energy efficiency . South Oxfordshire and Vale of White Horse district council ' brilliant new joint local plan propose that new home should be net zero , with solar be the obvious way of deliver that , but that ambitious plan be now sit with the Government inspector , and we be in his hand . do my hon . friend agree that local authority should be empower to deliver on their net zero ambition ? I agree , because we be advise that we could not do what we want with our local plan , as it would have go beyond the national planning policy framework . the local community want to do it , so we should be empower to do it . I entirely support the Bill , because it would make so much sense to everybody if we be to make sure that all new build have adequate solar panel on they or , where appropriate , an alternative form of green energy production , so that people end up with house that be not destroy the climate and where they can actually afford their fuel bill . it be quite a long time ago now , but I remember when I buy my first house . I have carefully plan out all the cost to determine whether I could afford the mortgage and everything else , and then the winter come , I start get my fuel bill and I think , " oops , this be a bit difficult . " I do not want that to happen to people . I want they to move into their new house and have low energy bill . it be not in this Bill , but the Government have the power to do this : we must make retrofit solar panel a good deal easy . it must be make easy for people to get the connection certificate they need , because that be a problem , and I be already get casework about it . I commend Cambridgeshire county council , because it have a scheme whereby local people can register to join in with a group purchase , on which the county council do the due diligence . that mean that people know that the supplier and the contractor be good , responsible , reliable people and they also get the discount of bulk buying . I commend the council on that scheme . the Bill be a brilliant start to make sure that this country can get to net zero and that people have warm home that they can afford to heat . I begin by make a declaration of interest : my former employer , CPRE , the countryside charity , be a supporter of the Bill . many of my constituent be also passionate supporter of the proposal for mandatory rooftop solar on new building ; it be one of the issue on which I have have the most correspondence in recent month . in North East Hertfordshire , the town of Royston and Buntingford have see rapid development in recent year , as have small village such as Barkway , Puckeridge and Standon . in the near future , a new estate will be build on the edge of Letchworth Garden City and the town of Baldock be due to roughly double in size . at the same time , we face many challenging decision locally to balance the need for renewable energy with the protection of our high - quality farmland , while also preserve and enhance space for nature . it be therefore unsurprise that resident in North East Hertfordshire can see the common sense in make the good possible use of our finite land by put the solar panel we need on rooftop . our approach to deliver the renewable energy we undoubtedly and desperately need have be far too laissez - faire . my constituency have also see significant population growth ; it have grow by 35 % in the past 20 year . new estate in Didcot , Great Western Park , Wantage , Kingsgrove , Highcroft in Wallingford and Wellington Gate in Grove have not all seek the opportunity to have solar panel on the new house . do the hon . Gentleman agree that if we do not create the home of the future now , there be a risk that we will have to retrofit they in future , at great expense , to reach our net zero target and help resident with their bill ? I wholeheartedly agree . as I be say , we could suffer from the potentially profound impact of compete demand for space for the home we require , our commitment to protect 30 % of our land for nature by 2030 , and our fragile food security . government figure show that with an industry average of 5 acre per megawatt , the propose ground - mount solar scheme put forward to date would , if they all go ahead , require a total land area roughly equivalent to Birmingham , Bristol , Manchester , Liverpool , Nottingham , Newcastle and Leeds combine . yet at the same time , academic analysis indicate that between suitable exist building and new construction , there be potential space for 117 GW of rooftop solar in England by 2050 . do the hon . Gentleman agree that it be a shocking dereliction of duty when the previous Government cancel the zero - carbon home programme , which would have allow for the generation of around 3 , 000 MW if every house build since 2015 have have solar panel on it ? do he agree with my resident in Taunton and Wellington , who be aghast and want to see solar panel on the new house be build in Comeytrowe , Staplegrove and Monkton Heathfield ? I find myself , once again , in wholehearte agreement . ensure that solar panel be instal on the rooftop of new building specifically could deliver a generating capacity over six time great than that of Sizewell C . clearly , if we start apply a strategic approach begin with the provision in the Bill , we can host the vast majority of the solar panel we need on our rooftop . other nation be already prove that this can be do , with similar regulatory measure currently in place in Germany , China and Japan . well yet , enact this legislation would not only accelerate our progress toward meet our climate target , reduce the industrialisation of our countryside and protect rural community ; it also offer the most effective way to ensure that the net zero transition lower electricity bill for consumer . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests ; my former colleague at the MCS Foundation have provide research in support of the Bill . I want to pick up on the hon . Gentleman ' s point about timescale , because in my experience this issue be the one that be raise most commonly by resident want to see action . why on earth , they say , be new home be put up without solar panel on they ? time be of the essence , but be it not the case that we have already lose many opportunity to progress ? regulation be due to come into force in 2016 that would have require all new home to have zero carbon standard . those regulation be scrap by the coalition Government . [ Official Report , 21 January 2025 ; Vol . 760 , c . 976 . ] ( correction ) [ hon . member : " no , they weren ' t . " ] the briefing I have have say that they be scrap in 2014 . [ interruption . ] either way , I be pleased to see cross - party support today to press ahead with this proposal at speed . do the hon . Gentleman agree that speed be of the essence here to ensure that home be not be put up without solar panel ? I agree that speed be of the essence in multiple way , and I encourage the Government to move as quickly as possible . empower household to generate the electricity that they use will help family to lower their bill far more rapidly than commercial scheme that feed into wholesale energy market influence by international commodity price . this strike I as a well - draft Bill , and I congratulate the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) on its clarity and flexibility . the only thing that I might suggest be a widening of the provision to cover commercial building as well , give the vast opportunity provide by warehouse space . it be estimate that we currently use only about 5 % of warehouse rooftop for solar generation . claim that the regulation would hinder innovation be clearly spurious , especially in view of the provision for exemption where other form of renewable energy generation be instal . it be high time that our country have common - sense standard for rooftop solar on new build , and I hope that the whole House will support the Bill . I congratulate the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) on his Bill . I do have some reservation about it , which I will go into shortly , but I be minded to support it today because this be a much well policy than the current Government line about have large - scale solar farm on all our farmland throughout the United Kingdom . I would much rather solar panel be put on new build , and council already have some power enable they to do that . Broxbourne council , which I use to lead , have engage in extensive negotiation with developer , particularly at High Leigh , where we have manage to get solar panel on some of the house . a large data centre be also be build , and we have manage to put some solar panel on that . as I have say , I do have some concern . I be all for take on developer and ensure that they pay for their section 106 negotiation and do their community work , and stand up for the resident we all represent . however , during many of the negotiation when I lead the council , developer tell I that they want to put solar panel on more house but the distribution network operator have tell they that there be not enough capacity . I say that no one would be able to see the top of the data centre , so why not cover the whole thing in solar panel ? why would anyone not want to do that ? why would anyone not support it ? that be my negotiating position . the developer go away and have discussion with the DNO , which say that they could have only 25 % because there be not enough capacity for more and the system would not be able to cope . we need to have a discussion about the capacity of the grid if we be go to do this . I know that the Bill focus specifically on new build property , but surely it be a good thing to be able to use the rooftop of all the large data centre and warehouse that be already available . the hon . Gentleman be speak passionately about his constituency , but do not cheap battery technology mean that people do not have to sell their electricity back to the grid any more ? they can keep it within their boundary and use it themselves . I be about to mention battery technology , so I ask the hon . gentleman to wait just a few second . the Bill do go quite far in that its ambition relate to all house , but I think we should go far . if we be put solar panel on house , we should require those house to have battery storage as well , which might solve some of the problem involve grid connection and there be sufficient capacity . battery technology be a bit behind solar panel technology in term of efficiency , and it be not quite there yet on cost - effectiveness , but we be definitely get there . for example , it be more cost - effective to use the electricity in an electric car than to send it back to the grid . I urge the hon . member for Cheltenham to consider that , because if we be take this one step in instal solar panel , perhaps we should take one further step and require people to have battery storage as well . I be concerned about the red tape we be go to create for new development . as I say , I be all for take on developer — I see some councillor and former councillor in the Chamber , who have probably all have vociferous discussion like the one I have have with developer about they do their bit — but I be concern about the pushback we might get in discussion on section 106 agreement . there be issue around viability , which I will not go into now , but I would not want to see developer tell their local council and community , " we can ' t give you money for the new school or the doctor ' s surgery because we ' ve get to put solar panel on housing . " we need to give some thought to how that will work , because we all want the most community money possible for the road , school and GP surgery that must come with new development . there will be some home for which solar panel be not suitable . I be fully supportive of panel be instal on building that have an east - west facing roof , or on a block of flat . where it be practical to do that , of course we should do it . as other member have say , it be increasingly frustrating when we drive past a development to see a roof with only two solar panel on it , after the developer have go through the whole cost of put up the scaffolding and build the house . I suspect that be because of the issue around capacity , which we definitely need to look into , but come on . if they be already put solar panel on half the roof , they should fill the whole roof with they , because that do not just help they ; if they can sell the green electricity back to the grid , it help everybody . I have some reservation about where the money will come from . I would not want it to come from the resource that would have go on school , education and road through section 106 agreement , so we need to look at that . we also need to look at distribution network operator and capacity , to make sure we can really harness the energy , but as this proposal be much well than have large - scale solar farm plaster all over our green belt and the countryside , I be minded to support the Bill ' s Second Reading . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) for bring forward this Bill on a subject of great importance . I know from personal experience the time and effort it must have take to get to this stage . I be sure member on both side of the House will agree that solar be a key tool in the renewable energy arsenal which , if use properly , can have a significant positive impact on tackle climate change and ensure that we live in a more sustainable society . I be proud to represent a constituency that be take the power of solar seriously . constituent in Amber Valley regularly write to I want to know what be be do at both local and national level to tackle climate change . even those constituent who be not what any of we would call eco - warrior be invariably unopposed to solar on rooftop , and that be not , it seem , unique to Amber Valley . as I walk through Westminster underground station this morning , a billboard catch my eye . the MSC Foundation be advertise the fact that a recent YouGov survey find that three in four voter believe that solar panel should be mandatory on new home . when Labour take control of Amber Valley borough council in 2023 , the council have no council home whatsoever , as the previous Conservative - run council have sell all the housing stock 20 year early at below - market rate . to right that wrong , the council have start a new council house building programme , and while we start small , we be work towards a target of 30 new council home , each fit with solar panel . indeed , the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero last year witness four new build result from that programme on his visit to the borough alongside the Mayor of the East Midlands . it be fair to say that we be commit in Amber Valley . incorporate rooftop solar as part of our house building programme have be an important part of deliver clean energy and low bill , and ensure sustainability for our constituent . when I first become a borough councillor in Amber Valley , I ask whether we could have a planning condition that solar panel must be instal on roof , and I too be tell that that be just not possible . that be totally perplexing to I , so I be sure that hon . member can imagine that I be proud to be part of a Government who be spearhead the most ambitious house building programme in a generation , with a clear commitment to environmental sustainability . the hon . Lady speak of the Government ' s ambition , and there be one simple thing they could do . in December 2023 , after lobby from developer , the previous Conservative Government shamefully issue a write ministerial statement to prohibit a councillor in West Oxfordshire district council in my constituency from insist on high environmental standard for a net zero development . do the hon . Lady agree that if the Government simply revoke that write ministerial statement , local council across the country would have more freedom to set high environmental standard ? will she encourage the Minister to respond to that point ? I would encourage the Minister to respond , because I do not think that it be for I to do so . however , I do think we should be do everything we can to move towards a well , more sustainable future . not only be we build 1 . 5 million new home over this Parliament , but we be commit to an ambitious decarbonising agenda and harness renewable resource across the UK . the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero of course understand the importance of solar as part of our wide clean power mission , and the contribution that the energy efficiency of home can make to our net zero emission target . there be no doubt in my mind that rooftop solar play a crucial role in that . I support the notion behind the Bill . the Government be already work on future standard , particularly on the technical detail of solar , to ensure that they be appropriate . that will ensure that new home and building embrace energy efficiency and be fit for a net zero future , and I look forward to the Government introduce those standard this year . I thank the hon . member for Cheltenham for raise this important issue in the House today . People in my constituency be passionate about protect our environment , and they know that if we be to do that , we need to produce more renewable energy . however , in North East Hampshire , as in many other area of the UK , we be also protective of our arable farming land , which be so essential for our food security . pass the sunshine Bill , which have be bring to the House by my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , would challenge the presumption that the principal way to increase our solar capacity be through solar farm and large - scale industrial solar power generation . prioritise solar panelling on new home will allow we to create the right energy mix and to produce energy in a sustainable way . not only that , but it will help we to address some of the challenge with economic growth . reduce energy bill , especially for those in social housing or on low income , be an essential part of tackle the recent cost of living crisis , and develop the industry through innovation be of course good for job . there have be a lot of conversation this morning about the benefit to homeowner of instal solar panel on new build . if solar panel be include on new social housing , we would also be help those who face the great challenge in pay energy bill , which have go up since the energy price cap rise . that be an add benefit in the cost of living crisis . my hon . friend be of course correct . this should not be just about cost saving for those who can afford installation in the first place . in North East Hampshire , we have some fantastic example of community investment in renewable . Hart district council have instal 121 photovoltaic panel on the roof of its office , generate as much as 57 , 000 kWh of electricity per year , which be enough to power around 20 average home every year . Hart leisure centre have see £ 200 , 000 of investment in solar panelling on its sport hall , which reduce the demand put on the energy grid as a result of heat the swimming pool . if you will permit I a " Sliding Doors " moment , Madam Deputy Speaker , my house be build in 1961 , when this technology be not around . have solar panel of today ' s quality be instal then , not only would our energy bill have be significantly low , but we could have save in the region of 800 tonne of carbon — roughly equivalent to 140 London to Sydney return flight . give the Government ' s ambitious house building target , and as retrofitting be more expensive than instal at the build stage , it make sense to ensure that we do all we can right now to protect our environment , to reduce energy bill and to secure this industry for the future . each house build without renewable energy be a miss opportunity to save carbon and money , and to grow our economy . furthermore , each house build without solar panel increase the pressure to put panel elsewhere , include in our field . sustainable energy development be critical , but in North East Hampshire , as elsewhere , we do not want it to come at the cost of our countryside and our agricultural land . that be why I support this Bill , which prioritise put solar panel on the roof of new home . this be an important debate ; not only be it about solar , but it be about our climate and our environment . it matter to I , to my generation and to my constituent . my constituency mailbag be full of idea about how we get clean energy and message advocate for solar panel , so I know my constituent be interested in this debate . there be many expert in my constituency . just yesterday , I sit with a nuclear scientist from Wirral West , and there be many people who be passionate about the environment . in one quite brilliant architect , Colin Usher , we combine the expertise and the passion . he have bring intelligent design to bear in order to build super low energy use home . along with triple glazing , insulation and intelligent design , solar panel play an important part in those home . the panel sit on the roof and heat the home , and excess energy be sell back to the national grid . so brilliant be the design that in the winter month , one of the people live in these home pay just £ 10 for their energy . I hope we can expect future home to meet that high standard . I welcome the fact that the Government have already make a commitment to develop the next generation of home with high energy standard and efficiency . it be well for our pocket and for the planet . labour be clear that the crisis in our climate and in nature need serious action . that be why , in the election , we commit to triple solar power by 2030 . solar energy have an important role , and it be a part of GB Energy , which support our mission to make our country a clean energy superpower . we be meet our pledge with action : we be approve solar project that will power the equivalent of almost 400 , 000 home . I note that this Government , in just one week , have consent to more solar than the last Government instal in an entire year . that show the marked difference this government be already make in an area that the whole House be clearly passionate about . I be pleased that the Minister be develop strong new standard , which will combine Labour ' s ambition to build high - quality home in the right place and the ambition to protect our environment . our commitment to action will bring low bill to my constituent . that be sorely need after a difficult cost of living crisis , last for year , which have put pressure on household bill . in this way , we can really support our constituent . through our meaningful action on more sustainable renewable source of energy , we be make a difference to our climate . it be pretty clear that the climate crisis do not respect rhetoric , weapon or border ; it do not care how many like you get on social medium or how viral your clip go ; it respond only to action , and the action the Government be take give I hope for the future . across my constituency , people be take action , and do their bit to shift we toward clean energy . we must meet their ambition for a greener , sunnier and more secure future . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) for bring the Bill before the House . as an environmental campaigner for the past 22 year , I very much support any Bill , include my own Climate and Nature Bill — a shameless plug — that encourage the shift away from fossil fuel . however , I do not support every measure that increase the use of renewable , which be why the sunshine Bill be so important . there be good way and less good way to meet our international commitment on carbon emission and climate change . a less good way , as have already be mention by many hon . member , be to cover large tract of our countryside in solar panel without the agreement or co - operation of local community . I welcome the Bill , but the choice between solar farm and rooftop solar installation be not a zero - sum game ; they both have a distinct role to play . in our most ambitious plan , solar farm would account for less than 1 % of land cover . do the hon . Lady agree with Tom Bradshaw , president of the National Farmers ' Union , that solar farm represent a diversification opportunity for farmer that will also be good for the british public ? I thank the hon . member for the good point she raise , but I would like to see more solar panel installation that be motivate not by profit , but by concern for people and planet . that be my concern about some of the very large solar installation we be see propose across the country , include in my constituency of South Cotswolds . we be rightly proud of our beautiful countryside , so a proposal for a 2 , 000 - acre solar farm have provoke outrage and objection from nearby community . some 88 % of respondent to an early consultation be against the plan . some might say that their sacrifice be necessary for the great good , but when I put myself in the shoe of nearby resident , I can not agree . I love my morning walk , which help to keep I sane — well , relatively . we need to be encourage people to spend more time enjoy the outdoors , with all its benefit for mental and physical health , as well as strengthen the relationship between human and the rest of nature . when I consider how I would feel if my cherish morning walk , through green field , be instead go to be a walk through field of black , shiny solar panel , past hum battery storage facility , I would not be happy . let we keep our countryside beautiful . it add insult to injury for the people of Hullavington , Luckington and Sherston to see massive new warehouse and new home spring up with not a solar panel in sight . we need to meet our environmental goal in collaboration with people , not in opposition to they . my Climate and Nature Bill , which I will introduce next week , emphasise the need for public engagement on our journey to net zero . that journey will not be easy and will only be make more difficult if people feel that net zero be something that be be impose on they , by corporate interest or Government , without respect for the wish of nearby resident . where ground - mount solar may be necessary , let we make it small scale and community lead . the Government ' s housing target mean that my area need 9 , 500 new home over the next 20 year , which thousand of my constituent be very worried about . many of they would be far happy if they know that the property be build would meet the need of local people , by be affordable to buy and cheap to run . do my hon . friend agree that the New Homes ( Solar Generation ) Bill be not only a no - brainer , but an essential part of gain public support for house building ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . we also need to increase our national food security , decrease our reliance on vulnerable international food supply chain and depend more on home - grow food , grow to trust standard . Most farmer want to grow food , not solar panel . the need for a national land use framework be become ever more pressing . we need a sensible long - term strategy for how we use our finite resource of land space in this country . I would like to see a much great emphasis on multipurpose our land area . we need to get away from divide up food production , housing and electricity generation . we can make much well use of our land when we take a multilayere approach . to that end , it make sense to prioritise rooftop solar ahead of greenfield site . some 60 % of UK solar target could be deliver on rooftop by 2035 . generate energy at the source reduce the strain on the national grid , improve overall energy resilience and reduce the need for long , wasteful grid connection generate energy at the source reduce the strain on the national grid , improve overall energy resilience and reduce the need for long , wasteful grid connection or rank of electricity pylon march across our countryside . retrofit solar panel to house be costly and disruptive ; it be so much more efficient and effective to install solar at the time of building . in Europe , they get this . the EU solar standard require solar panel on new and exist public , commercial and residential building . the EU ' s goal be to increase the use of renewable energy and reduce dependence on russian fossil fuel , and it be work . to I , the sunshine Bill be a win - win - win . it be a win for the UK , reduce our need for import energy source and improve our resilience and self - reliance ; it be a win for householder , who can reduce their energy bill by generate their own electricity ; and it be a win for the planet , support our transition away from fossil fuel . I will wholeheartedly support the sunshine Bill . I thank the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) for bring forward this Bill , which deal with an issue that matter deeply to my constituent and to I . this winter we have see the devastating impact that climate change can have on community , and colleague and I have watch in horror as wildfire have spread through California and flooding have impact my constituency and many area across the UK . now , more than ever , we must find way to weave the pursuit of clean , home - grow energy into everything we do , and solar power will make a vital contribution . I have have the pleasure of visit many local school in Kettering since be elect . on every visit , child have tell I that they be worried about our local environment and the future of our world , and I feel those worry too . I be proud to stand on a manifesto that promise to make Britain a clean energy superpower , and which pledge to double onshore wind , triple solar power and quadruple offshore wind by 2030 . I be even prouder to see the progress that this Labour Government have already make in deliver on those pledge . only two week after the election , when most of we , include I , still do not know the way from the Chamber to Portcullis House , the Secretary of State lift the ban on onshore wind , establish the 2030 mission control centre and consent to solar project that will generate more than 1 . 3 GW — enough to power almost 400 , 000 home . this be clearly a Government of delivery , who be work to drive forward and increase rooftop solar , which , where appropriate , will help accommodate the Government ' s 2030 clean power mission . the potential for rooftop solar be huge , especially in constituency such as mine , which be one of the fast - grow area in the UK and , of course , where the sun always shine . I have be contact by many constituent about this issue , and they support the Government ' s aim to achieve 95 % clean energy by 2030 . I understand their desire for solar and the need for it on new build , warehouse and the ground , so I be glad that this Government have commit to ensure that local community continue to have a voice in planning matter , and that community host clean energy infrastructure will benefit from it . the speed of house building in Kettering mean that we be no stranger to irresponsible and difficult developer , so our commitment to the environment must go hand in hand with planning . I know that the Government will introduce standard on house building this year to ensure that our new home and building be fit for a net zero future , but we also need to ensure that developer can not shirk their responsibility to the environment and to local resident . our house building need to be sustainable so that local people can trust that their need , and the need of the environment , be be meet . the Government ' s national planning policy framework be a lesson in how we can deliver the big boost to social and affordable housing in a generation while unlock green energy and recognise the benefit of our good agricultural land , and all while make vital commitment to use planning to enhance the natural and local environment , protect value landscape , and recognise the character and beauty of the countryside . I be grateful to have have this opportunity to put on the record my support for rooftop solar and for this Government ' s commitment to our environment in Kettering and beyond . the 1 . 5 ° global temperature limit be pass for the first time ever in 2024 . this politically significant milestone be a stark reminder that we must leave no stone unturned as we make the systemic change require to every part of our economy for a safe future . rooftop solar be one of the easy of the change that we can make . as the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) say , it be a " win - win - win " policy that help cut people ' s bill and climate emission , and help strengthen our energy security . research and development of rooftop solar be already a british success story — we be world leader — so it be time to take the next step and maximise deployment of on - site solar generation in new build . that be the aim of the sunshine Bill , and I be pleased to have co - sponsor this proposal to create new job , to drive innovation yet far , and to generate abundant amount of energy both while the sun shine and , as the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) point out , when it do not . make solar panel mandatory on suitable new home be almost universally popular — other than with some major house builder . that be what I want to focus on during the short time available to I . Solar Energy UK estimate that , of the 15 GW of solar power capacity currently in place , around two third be on the ground and the remainder be on residential and commercial roof . if we be to meet the Government ' s target to ramp up solar capacity — which I hope we do — we should be look up . some 80 % of the building that we will have in 2050 have already be build , so we must work hard to retrofit they with renewable , but the remain 20 % have still to be build . for goodness ' sake , let ' s build they right the first time . that be where private housing developer come into the mix . the british designer and " Grand Designs " presenter Kevin McCloud write last year that in 15 year ' time the average profit on each new build home have rocket from £ 6 , 000 to £ 63 , 000 . I call on Ministers to stand up to the major house builder and ensure that they pay the cost of put solar on every suitable new roof . the organisation 100 % renewable UK have calculate that mandatory solar panel and heat pump in new home would add around £ 8 , 000 to the cost of a new home — an amount that decrease as installation gather speed . clearly , housing developer can afford that cost , and neither they nor anyone else can afford the consequence of not meet our solar or other climate target . the Los Angeles wildfire be on track to be among the costly in US history , as well as the most heartbreaking , with loss already expect to exceed £ 109 . 7 billion . fail to decarbonise at speed , in line with the climate science , will dwarf the cost of future - proof our home . the moral case for acting be unequivocal , and so too be the economic one . if Ministers be worried about the risk of solar cost be pass on to homebuyer , the Government could simply stop that happen . they could also offer interest - free loan for this technology , and make it easy for retail lender to drive rooftop deployment . property - link finance or green mortgage can help consumer with the capital cost of installation , as could regulation to incentivise low interest rate for green mortgage . these be all political choice that the Government could make . the sunshine Bill be not just about solar panel but about — forgive I — shine some sunlight on who have the power . make every home a mini power station would help rebalance that power towards community . I therefore very much hope that the Government will today choose to back both a solar rooftop revolution and mandatory solar be include in the future home standard , rather than choose to protect the vested interest that be behind the vast and ultimately unsustainable house builder ’ profit . I thank the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) for introduce the Bill . I think it be laudable , and its heart be very much in the right place . we should think of the climate crisis in all matter of policy and in how we might contribute to the Government ' s goal of make Britain a clean energy superpower . the Government , guide by the excellent work of the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , be already make great stride in combat the climate crisis , put green energy at the heart of the country ' s future and support green industrial growth wherever we can . the Government have establish Great British Energy , which mean that we will need new green infrastructure soon rather than later . when it come specifically to solar energy , I be very pleased that , within just day of take office , the Government approve three major , long - stall , large solar farm in Lincolnshire and East Anglia , capable of generate 1 . 5 GW , or enough to power 500 , 000 home . that be a clear statement of intent , and one that we can all be very proud of . at the same time , the Secretary of State pledge a rooftop revolution , make it easy for newly build home to come with solar panel from the off and to install solar panel on exist home . a third of our solar generation capacity already come from rooftop solar , it be an important part of the energy generation mix and I know that the Government fully believe in rooftop solar , as I do . the hon . member talk a lot about the measure that be be put forward in the move towards net zero , but we need to go far . CPRE Hertfordshire say that 60 % of our target could be achieve through rooftop solar panel alone , and support the Bill will help to make sure that that revolution help towards net zero for our planet and our people . I thank the hon . member for her intervention , and I will cover some of those point shortly . I broadly agree with the sentiment of what she say . the Bill ' s aim , in promote the installation of solar panel on all new home , feed into the Government ' s overall intent , and I be pleased about that . I note , however , that it be undeniable that solar farm , especially the large one , be much more efficient than rooftop solar for a whole spectrum of reason . rooftop solar panel be constrain by the size , orientation and structural limitation of individual building , while solar farm be optimise for maximum energy generation . the difference in output can be as high as 30 % . economy of scale mean that the cost to install , maintain and centralise the supportive infrastructure notably reduce the ratio of cost per unit of energy generate by solar farm . that be not to say that I do not support rooftop solar , because I very much do , but solar farm be a highly scalable , cost - effective mean through which to achieve the green energy transition . be that not exactly the point — we need to do both , because that create a subsidy for more opportunity to have rooftop solar panel ? I completely agree . it be not about one solution versus another , but a diverse , broad array of solution , all feed into a grand , green future . the hon . Gentleman talk about a balance . my view be that solar be well on rooftop , but if he be so pro - solar installation , how many thousand acre in his constituency be he actively campaign to see turn into ground - mount solar ? I must say that I declare my support for those project wherever they come up . indeed , I will touch on some of they in a moment . I be recently ask by the medium whether I would be happy to have pylon outside my house , to which I respond with a photograph of a pylon take from a window in my house . I have long feel that despite the great benefit solar farm bring , they have often be too difficult to bring forward . the UK have around 15 GW of solar energy generation capacity . in Germany , meanwhile , solar capacity grow by 14 GW in 2023 alone . it be clear that the UK ' s current planning regime and approach to build infrastructure constrain growth and see we lag behind similar nation . if we want Britain to be a clean energy superpower , as I do , and lead the green energy revolution rather than just follow it , we must tear down the barrier to growth and unlock our potential . in my constituency , my labour colleague on Erewash borough council have , in their own small , local way , help to be part of the change that we need . since take control of the council in 2023 , they have approve several solar farm , while the previous conservative administration always block they , and I be very proud of my colleague for do so . I be also very proud to tell the now Energy Secretary that information when he visit Erewash this time last year . the progression of these vital infrastructure project , which be pivotal to the future of our country , must be drive by a national strategy and not hold up by bureaucracy . as I have say , the Bill ' s proposal be laudable . the drive to green energy generation along with this Government ' s ambition to make Britain a clean energy superpower could be , to this decade and to those to come , what the race for space be in the 1950 and 1960 — country engage in a great contest of scientific innovation and progress . there be nothing that I , as a former research scientist , could welcome more than the Government pursue science , innovation and technology as a matter of not only core policy , but national pride . this Government be commit to greatly expand our provision of solar energy generation and have acknowledge many time the significant part that rooftop solar have to play in that expansion . I hope that supporter of this Bill be assure by the Government ' s genuine commitment on this front . the climate crisis and the housing crisis be both profound issue , worthy of the descriptor " crisis " and in need of immediate action . I know that many right hon . and hon . member share the Government ' s commitment to act here , as I most certainly do . I pay tribute to my neighbour and hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) for so boldly take up this cause . his so - name sunshine Bill , which to my mind reflect his own disposition so brightly — as though it be his own glow cranium — [ Laughter . ] I may only speculate what it be that attract my hon . friend to discuss a Bill regard the promotion of shiny surface atop well - build structure — we can only guess . do he agree that as this Bill move forward , it be absolutely essential that the Government work across party to build a consensus , include all those expert and those passionate in this subject , and to work together to ensure that it be successfully deliver for the betterment of all our resident ? my hon . friend have so eloquently put across the pragmatism that we can enjoy from Liberal Democrats in work across party for the benefit of our constituent , and I thank he for that . this undertaking by my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham have be bring up consistently on doorstep across the Tewkesbury constituency in recent year . widely consider to be a blindingly obvious antidote to rise energy bill and the phasing out of fossil fuel , people have tend to ask , with an exasperate tone , why on earth new home be not build with solar panel by mandate . as my hon . friend have describe , the public roundly support such measure , with one poll register 70 % support . whether or not the New Homes ( Solar Generation ) Bill go to a vote today , I hope that the Government will recognise the alignment with their environmental pledge and that they will take the ball and run with it . I thank the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) for introduce this Bill . rooftop solar panel be a huge area of huge potential . on such a grey day , I also thank he for bring all the sunshine . I be pleased that the Government be already explore rooftop solar panel on new build house in the " Clean Power 2030 " action plan , which aim to have at least 95 % of Great Britain ' s electricity produce by clean energy by 2030 . the Government relaunche the solar taskforce quickly after the general election , bring together expert from the government and industry . the taskforce ' s road map be due to be publish in the spring , and it will set out recommendation for how we can triple the UK ' s solar capacity by 2030 . I look forward to that . the pylon issue have be bring up . I grow up and live in a home under a pylon for nearly 50 year , and I do not think it have do I any harm . I know that the Government be due to introduce further standard later this year . they will set our new home and building on a path away from reliance on volatile fossil fuel , and they will ensure that those home and building be fit for a net zero future . I be sure the Minister will expand on that . as well as new build , it be important that people know that assistance package be out there to help they with instal solar panel on exist home . that include the energy company obligation , the warm home local grant and the warm home social housing fund . owner of solar panel can also be pay for the surplus electricity their solar panel generate through the smart export guarantee , and there be a zero rate of vat on residential solar panel . much of what have be cover in this debate be devolve , although member may not have know that I be Welsh . to my constituent in Gower and across Wales , I point to the Welsh Government ' s Nest programme , which can provide free energy efficiency improvement , include solar panel , to those eligible . the Bill state that it " extend to England and Wales . " of course , the hon . member for Cheltenham will be aware that building regulation be devolve . what conversation have he have with the Welsh Government or Members of the Senedd about this ? I be sure that the Welsh Labour Government would be delighted to work alongside the UK Labour Government — they probably be already do so — to ensure that home be more energy efficient and that our constituent have the opportunity to save money on their bill . the important thing about the path forward be that the Government should work with house builder to get the good outcome for both our environmental target and our housing target . we must also build high - quality , sustainable and affordable home . as have be mention by many , the scope of the Bill do not cover roof other than those on new build , so I highlight the need for solar panel on all roof . as the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) say , we must take the agricultural land that we need for food to feed our country into consideration , and we must strike a fair and right balance . I know that the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) have also raise that issue . I feel very passionately that we must not do down one or the other . we must be aware that there be problem , particularly with tenant farmer and how they be be treat by company . where there be bad actor , I know that our government — my government — will seek to find they . I hope that the Government will work in collaboration with farmer , who may need to have a blend and have solar farm on their land , as well as with tenant farmer . I know that the Government be commit to find a workable way forward on this issue . I thank the hon . member for Cheltenham for the chance to highlight it in this debate and for the sunshine he have bring . as the liberal Democrat spokesperson for energy security and net zero , I be delighted to support the private Member ' s Bill of my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) : the sunshine Bill . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be beam . South Cambridgeshire be one of the fast grow constituency in the country in term of house building and lab space . People constantly say to I , " why be all of these new home without solar panel on their roof ? " or " why do these new home only have one or two solar panel or only on part of the roof ? " sadly , in 2025 , developer be still require only to meet — not exceed — the Merton rule ' s inadequate 10 % energy improvement standard . that be why Liberal Democrat councillor in my constituency have be push hard to change this at the local level . in fact , in the five year since they take control of the council , South Cambridgeshire have rapidly become the district with the high number of solar panel fit and with the fast increase in planning application that include solar panel . it be the lack of ambition and political will at the national level that have hold back the revolution in solar rooftop . that be why we be still build home that be cold and damp and that have skyrocket energy bill . the former Conservative Government disgracefully scrap the zero carbon home policy , and dither and delay on the future home standard . early , the hon . member for Waveney Valley ( Adrian Ramsay ) lament — in good faith — the drawdown of environmental pledge in 2016 . of course , that be not the coalition Government ; what we see and what we get be what happen when the Liberal Democrats be no long there to hold people to account . it will not surprise anyone to hear that I agree wholeheartedly . the record have be correct . it be vital that the Bill help to repair that damage , and we look forward to the Minister ' s commitment to bring about these change . as have be mention , the lack of ambition on the solar rooftop revolution have contribute to the barrier to public acceptance of large scale solar farm . we be hear people say , " why not put panel on the rooftop of home , industrial site and commercial warehouse first ? " we need a join - up plan ; we need the Government urgently to bring forward the much - promise land use framework and the National Energy System Operator ' s strategic spatial energy plan , which will show how much solar farm energy be still need and where it would be well place . in that way , we can meet all our need . the Bill be our chance to get this right . it be our chance for a clean , green and more secure future that address the triple cost of living , housing and climate crisis and take people with we . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham . I thank the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) for bring this sunshine to the Chamber today . the horrific wildfire rage in California and the recent flooding that we see provide yet more reminder that urgent action be need to tackle the climate and nature emergency . I be proud that , under this Labour Government , the UK be once again show climate leadership . we know that we can not tackle the housing crisis without tackle the climate crisis . nor can we achieve our core growth mission or increase living standard without acknowledge the huge impact of climate change . the build environment be responsible for 40 % of emission , and decarbonise our housing stock be essential . as a member of the all - party parliamentary group on ClimateTech , which be chair by my hon . friend the Member for Exeter ( Steve Race ) , I be pleased to attend a recent event in Parliament , where we meet start - up work on innovative solution to decarbonise the build environment . the Government ' s steadfast commitment to this agenda and to policy such as Great British Energy and the warm home plan be warmly welcome by the business I meet . turn to my constituency , I want to share an example of how a local business can use the expansion of rooftop solar and of low - carbon heating and energy generation to help our government achieve their mission of stimulate economic growth and raise living standard in all part of the country . I recently visit a former Marks and Spencer on Mostyn street in Llandudno , which the owner be transform into a massive indoor entertainment centre . that be exactly the kind of development that place such as Llandudno need . the owner have instal a huge solar array , which will save the business £ 32 , 000 a year and about 25 tonne of carbon . for I , the most exciting part of that development be that the installation be part - fund by the local authority and do by a local business . we do not want just the clean , cheap energy that rooftop solar will provide ; we also want the job . my hon . friend speak about precisely the job that the Bill would generate . I declare an interest in that between speech I have be email to arrange the installation of a solar array on my home in the next couple of week . although I will not benefit from the reduction in the cost of installation and of the panel themselves that the Bill would provide by boost the market and demand for those skill , do she agree that the economic benefit and the skill bring to our resident be another incredibly positive reason why we should back the measure in the Bill and ensure they be implement as soon as possible ? I absolutely agree , and that be why we need to get this right , not just on rooftop solar but on the skill for retrofitting and in low - carbon heating in general . a lot of work need to be do to ensure that business have the skill so that we can expand and do what we need with this whole agenda . we need to ensure that local business benefit from the job and supply chain opportunity that the expansion of low - carbon heating and rooftop solar would provide , because tackle climate change and increase living standard go hand in hand . it be critical that we get this right across the piece . I call the shadow Minister . I commend the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) for bring this important issue to the House . it be good to see the Minister in his place — I know he and Ministers in his Department have have a busy week . solar energy have an essential role to play in decarbonise our power sector by put otherwise unused roof space to good use . solar panel be an effective technology for reduce carbon emission , and the Bill propose a forward - look measure that would require the installation of solar pv generation equipment on new home . its second reading offer we an opportunity to debate the merit of the proposal and its potential contribution to our share goal of reach net zero by 2050 . while welcome the Bill and its aim outline this morning , I would like to add to the debate some possible unintended consequence of the Bill in its present form . I want to be a genuinely constructive voice in ensure that the Bill get to Committee — I hope the hon . Member see that — but some area could be strengthen . I appreciate his sunny disposition in bring the legislation to the House today . I will try to be a ray of sunshine as I get through this speech . [ interruption . ] I be in danger of mislead the House there . I hope to be a sunny ray of light in Committee should the Bill get through and we table amendment to it . the previous Government support solar energy generation where it be appropriate . our effort include a £ 50 million fund aim at support rooftop solar installation to enhance on - farm energy security . the responsibility for advance solar and renewable energy now rest with this Government , and we wish they luck in do so while remain sceptical about the ability of GB Energy to see that through . under the last government ' s leadership , we deliver 2 . 5 million home since 2010 , include 1 million home during our final term in office . that provide more people with the opportunity to own their home and expand option for renter . additionally , in November 2023 , as have be outline , the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government announce expand development right , make it easy for homeowner and business to install rooftop solar panel without the need for planning permission in most case . that be a positive step , and I hope to see such support continue . as the Government pledge to deliver 1 . 5 million home in this Parliament , we must ask ourselves what impact the Bill would have on house building . building cost be already high and project to rise far . even the chief executive of Homes England have admit that deliver labour ' s housing target may require two parliamentary term , not one as the Minister outline . I also note that the implementation date of 1 October 2026 in clause 1 provide little time for the industry to adapt to the significant challenge the Bill introduce . give the grow pressure on the industry , it be necessary to question whether the Government have consider and work on the potential skill shortage , as an hon . member raise early , and the feasibility of implement the standard in this well - intentione Bill . we know that the UK have one of the old housing stock among develop country , with a particularly complex system of housing tenure . building own by freeholder and occupy by a mix of leaseholder and tenant present ongoing challenge for successive government when implement necessary update and retrofit . meanwhile , in the realm of housing development , where 1 . 4 million new unit already have plan consent , developer continue to highlight issue , such as the cost of solar panel , as a significant obstacle to advance new housing project . we must therefore consider whether the additional cost impose by the Bill could hinder progress in deliver housing . could it add restriction to house building plan , particularly when it come into effect in 2026 ? we be open to the timescale that the Bill would implement . do my hon . friend not accept that , while it be not remotely surprising that some developer be resistant on the ground that the Bill will add to the cost of build property — it indubitably will — we should recognise the flipside of that coin , which be that it will enhance the value of the property and make its management and run much more affordable ? my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . if he will allow I , I will elaborate on that far on in my oration this morning , when I will look at the other side of the coin . while absolutely take into account that house builder will have concern over cost and will claim concern over cost , as we have see various organisation do , we also have concern about the ongoing maintenance cost of these technology for those who buy the property in the first place . there be a balance to strike , which we can look at far if the Bill go into Committee . maintain solar panel , as my right hon . friend be tempt I to say , be not without challenge . repair often require scaffolding , which can be expensive . we worry that an unintended consequence of the Bill could be increase cost for resident , home owner and property owner . how will we support home owner face frequent and costly repair ? the update to the national planning policy framework present an opportunity to consider how such requirement can be well embed in planning law . I recognise that administrator face a challenging task . the framework contain approximately 19 chapter of guidance , which each local authority must reflect in its local plan after public examination , ensure full alignment with those chapter . the complexity of the process , combine with consideration of local environmental factor , such as surface water run - off , and the need for material to align with establish practice , create a considerable challenge . to translate the aspiration outline by member into real - world outcome , we must simplify the process for local authority to enable they to fulfil their role as community leader . instead of require lengthy and costly procedure to prove compliance with planning law , we need to ensure that the relevant standard can be implement efficiently . the previous Government consult on a future home standard to ensure that all new home would be zero carbon - ready . that include provision for solar panel where appropriate . we must also ensure that brownfield site be prioritise for housing development and stand - alone solar power , rather than sacrifice valuable agricultural land , as we risk see under the Government ' s proposal . I sincerely hope that they will build on the progress we see as a result of the previous Government ' s consultation and the feedback gather . as we consider the Bill , it be important to recognise that not all building be suitable for solar panel . factor such as structural strength , the direction and orientation of building and challenge with maintenance access must be take into account . as I believe the hon . member for Cheltenham have recognise , a one - size - fit - all mandate might lead to unintended consequence or inefficiency . what discussion have he or the Government have and what consultation have take place with the building industry during the drafting of this legislation ? collaboration with developer and stakeholder be critical to ensure the successful implementation of such a policy . consumer and local choice must also play a role in these decision . I be concerned about the Labour Government ' s apparent intent to reduce the influence of local representative on plan committee . local people should have a say on what be build in their area — we have hear some example from local council leadership across the country this morning . if this Bill receive pass its Second Reading today , we will scrutinise it thoroughly to ensure that it balance the need to build more home with the imperative of increase energy efficiency and production . I welcome the propose exemption for building that can not support solar due to roof positioning or other factor . those exemption need further scrutiny in Committee to ensure that they be comprehensive . sensibly , the Bill allow for other renewable energy system to be use where solar be not feasible ; that be practical . however , the list of exemption should not allow developer to adapt their design in order to avoid instal solar panel , so that they can avoid what they claim be increase cost . as my right hon . friend the Member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) and a number of colleague on the Labour Benches mention , there remain a risk that house builder or developer will identify loophole in the legislation that they can use to say , " we can ' t build solar on that , so we will do either a cheap alternative or none at all . " however , if member in all part of the House work together in Committee , we can strengthen the legislation to ensure that developer put these technology on building across the country . when the zero carbon home standard be scrap by the Conservative Government in 2015 , a Government report say that scrap that standard be design to reduce regulation on house builder . many people say that the conservative party have be put under considerable pressure by house builder who be very generous to that party . will the shadow Minister reassure I that if this Bill reach Committee , he will be in favour of put pressure on the house builder to comply ? there I be , be nice about a liberal Democrat - propose Bill . as the hon . Lady know , the liberal Democrats be the bane of my life in my constituency , but I be be nice to the Liberal Democrat Member who introduce this Bill , and the hon . Lady have come back and be quite nasty to a Conservative . [ interruption . ] thank you very much . as my speech clearly outline , we in the opposition will take a pragmatic approach to legislation that come before the House , so that people will see the right measure bring in — for developer , if necessary — for new development across the country . I be not go to be party political and talk about donation . the last Government have a very strong track record of reduce carbon emission and make sure we deliver the home that we need across the country . we will continue to be a constructive voice in Parliament , as I try to outline to the hon . member for Cheltenham . we will be very pragmatic and constructive in make sure that the aim of this Bill be realise , should it reach Committee . the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) have my assurance on that , as the shadow Minister responsible for this policy area . I fully support initiative to encourage renewable energy and solar panel usage , but it be crucial to address the practical challenge we face . as have be mention , the national grid ' s infrastructure may not be equip to handle a significant increase in capacity from solar generation alone . a recent article outline that £ 60 billion of investment in the national grid be need to make sure that solar energy can be put back into the grid in a sustainable way . I will conclude — many will be pleased to hear — by reaffirm the conservative party ' s strong commitment to the UK ' s target of reach net zero by 2050 . I be proud to say that we have already achieve a 50 % reduction in emission between 1990 and 2022 while grow our economy by 79 % . as we continue on this journey , our policy must strike a balance between ambition and realism . I look forward to hear more about the provision in this Bill , and hope that this debate will bring we close to solution that support both its practical implementation and our environmental goal . I once again congratulate the hon . member for Cheltenham , and look forward to see he — if he be lucky — in a Committee on this legislation . at the risk of be sanction , I promise he that I will be a ray of sunlight when we work together to ensure that this Bill be strengthen and become legislation . I congratulate the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) on initiate this high - quality debate . it have be an honour to hear the many contribution that have be make . new home must be build with the year 2030 , 2040 and 2050 in mind , not the year 2000 , and I be glad that the national planning policy framework have be draft in the context of the wide climate crisis , so that planning decision on new home apply a presumption in favour of sustainable development . I look forward to the sunshine that the Minister will bring at the end of the debate , along with , I hope , more detail about supplement the NPPF . the domestic installation of solar panel have have a rough history in the UK since 2010 . the previous Labour Government adopt zero - carbon home regulation , but they be water down in 2010 and largely scrap in 2015 . one million new home have be build since 2010 , most of they with minimal standard for water and energy efficiency . soon or later those , along with all the much old home , will have to be retrofit . all our constituent really care about the climate crisis . it be one of the most common topic in my mailbox ; it be raise by child in school , and by grandparent at resident ’ meeting . yesterday evening I attend a meeting of Osterley and Wyke Green resident ’ association in my constituency , where we discuss solar panel . many resident who live in conservation area want to be able to install solar panel on their south - face roof where they face the road , and have ask I to see whether that be an issue of supplementary guidance or of national planning policy . I look forward to the Minister ' s response . we have a housing shortage in North Norfolk . in in particular , we need to build house that be affordable to buy and cheap to run . Most of my constituent would be far happy with the current growth in house building if they know that the property be be build to meet the need of local family , and that can be do . some of the most energy - efficient , low - cost housing in my constituency have be build by housing association , such as Broadland , that have construct mixed development contain both expensive and social housing , and it would be perfectly possible to do that at scale . the new regulation on solar panel installation that the Bill would require the Secretary of State to create could help we to deal with some of the problem and frustration about rooftop solar . one constituent complain to I about a lack of quality bird netting or deterrent on solar panel in his street , which have lead to a large influx of pigeon that be cause a considerable nuisance to he and his neighbour . that may sound like a scene from a Hitchcock film , but it be cause daily frustration , and could be easily avoid if the provision in the Bill be correctly apply . I can not find any pun to add to that story . anyone who want to tackle climate change know that it make sense to put solar panel on the roof of new build . anyone who want to move into a house with low or no energy cost know it , and anyone who be worried about excess solar farm be instal in our field know it , too . let I start by sincerely thank the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) for introduce the Bill , for the constructive spirit in which he have engage with I on it , and for his laudable effort outside the Chamber — include his effort as a local councillor , before come to this place — to promote the further growth of solar power . I know it be a cause that he care about , and his passion and commitment be evident in his opening remark . I also thank all the other member who have speak this morning for their thoughtful and well - inform contribution . it have be a wide - range debate and the quality have be high — although the same can not be say , I be afraid , for many of the pun that have be make throughout . the Government be extremely sympathetic to the intention behind the Bill , namely to significantly boost the deployment of rooftop solar . that aim be clearly share widely across the House , and for good reason . self - generation and consumption through solar pv panel not only decrease emission and deliver bill saving for householder , but provide security from fluctuation in wholesale electricity price . as solar technology become more efficient and affordable , instal panel during construction be increasingly more cost - effective than retrofit , a point that many member touch on . the Government be , therefore , in complete agreement with the hon . Gentleman that solar energy have an integral role to play in improve the energy efficiency and reduce the carbon emission of new home . however , we can not support the Bill today . that be because the Government already intend to amend building regulation later this year as part of the introduction of future standard that will set more ambitious energy efficiency and carbon emission requirement for new home . the new standard will ensure that all new home be future - proof , with low - carbon heating and very high - quality building fabric . not only will they help we to deliver our commitment to reach net - zero emission by 2050 , but they will reduce bill , tackle fuel poverty , grow skill , foster diverse job market and make Britain energy secure . let I make this absolutely clear to the House and to those watch our proceeding : solar energy will have an extremely important role to play in these standard . the Government ' s reservation about the Bill be not relate to its objective ; rather , they stem from recognition that the regulatory landscape be deal with be incredibly complex and that we must take great care to get the technical detail right . my official and I be work to develop the technical detail of the solar standard we intend to implement , with a view to ensure that they be both ambitious and achievable . our concern be that pass primary legislation that do not strike that balance correctly could have adverse effect , include on housing supply , the construction industry and local authority . although the Bill be not inherently flawed , we be not convinced that it be the most appropriate mean of proceeding , for reason I shall set out shortly . none the less , the hon . member for Cheltenham have do the House a great service by provide hon . member with a valuable opportunity to debate this important issue . in the time available to I , I will try to give the House a sense of some of the practical challenge we have be wrestle with as we develop and refine our emerge proposal , and how they speak to potential weakness in the Bill . as hon . member will be aware , in December 2023 the previous Government publish the future home and building standard consultation , set out proposal on what new standard should entail . the consultation close in March last year . over 2 , 000 response be receive , and some of the most detailed feedback the Department receive relate to the option set out in respect of solar . the hon . Gentleman have , I know , amass a not inconsiderable amount of technical expertise when it come to rooftop solar system , and he have consult with industry stakeholder , so he will be acutely aware that set environmental standard for new home be not something that Government can do in isolation . to succeed , we must take industry with we , and crucially , we must also ensure that the standard we set be achievable on all site across the country . while it be certainly not dictatorial , the expert feedback to the consultation as well as our ongoing work with the industry - lead future home hub , where we have be consider matter such as design flexibility , have be invaluable in shape the Government ' s think on what future standard should look like and how they should be implement . the feedback to the consultation we receive draw attention in particular to a number of practical consideration , which we believe it be essential to take into account when determine the precise role of solar in the new standard . I shall touch briefly on three , to illustrate the sort of practical issue my official and I have be weigh up as we develop the forthcoming new standard , and in so do give the House a sense of why we feel the Bill may not be the right way to achieve the objective we all share . the first consideration relate to the ground floor area requirement . as hon . member know , the future home and building standard consultation set out two option for new home ; both include very high - quality building fabric and a heat pump . the first option also include several additional element , notably solar panel equate to 40 % of the ground - floor area . while respondent be very supportive of the inclusion of solar panel , widespread concern be raise about the propose level of solar coverage , which many argue would be virtually impossible to achieve on certain type of home — for example , those with dormer window . clause 1 ( 2 ) of the Bill set out a requirement for the same level of solar coverage as be propose in the consultation . have thoroughly explore the evidence submit during the consultation process , the Government have conclude that this level of ground - floor area coverage , rather than just be challenge for a small proportion of new supply , be simply not feasible for many new home . importantly , our concern be that set a requirement at this level in law would result in a significant number of home need to apply for an exemption to the standard , which in turn could cause unmanageable workload in local authority , lead to significant bottleneck in housing supply , and ultimately reduce the speed at which rooftop solar on new home be roll out . determine exemption be by no mean a trivial task . solar panel system must be design carefully for each individual house , take into account feature such as roof shape and pitch , roof light and dormer . as such , determine the number of solar panel a roof can reasonably accept be a technical design exercise for which many local planning authority be simply not resource to carry out in large number . furthermore , any regulation would need to have an enforcement mechanism to deal with instance where unscrupulous developer simply do not comply . the Bill do not address that point , and again , we fear it could end up be another burden that will fall on overstretched local planning authority . alive as we be to these unintended consequence , the Government be determined to take an approach that be both ambitious and technically feasible so that widespread exemption be not necessary . the second issue relate to the timeframe for introduce the change . clause 1 ( 1 ) stipulate that solar pv will be mandatory on new build home from 1 October 2026 . while that may seem some way into the future , the design and specification of new housing development be typically set some considerable time prior to construction . as a result , the Bill ' s propose commencement date could risk a significant increase in cost and delay to housing delivery , as developer be force to rapidly redesign , include site already in train . it be important to bear in mind that those in the industry can not properly prepare for the new requirement until they have access to the final regulation and accompany statutory guidance . prepare the regulation and say guidance be not an insignificant task . they need to be draft and consult upon , with the consultation open for at least 12 week to align with standard protocol and to permit industry sufficient time to respond to such significant proposal . follow the consultation , the regulation and guidance will need to be finalise and pass use the affirmative resolution process . it be therefore unlikely that the full detail will be available to the construction sector until the end of this year at the early , give the sector only a few month to redesign and get supply chain prepare . these issue be particularly pertinent for small and medium - sized enterprise , which be less equipped to respond quickly . by potentially compress this period to meet the propose deadline , housing site that be already under way may become unviable , lead to waste investment , a negative impact on housing supply and disruption to numerous local community across the country — outcome that I be sure member will agree we must try to avoid . the third and final issue relate to transitional arrangement . Government typically minimise the disruption associate with the introduction of new building regulation by set out associate transitional arrangement . these arrangement determine the limited condition under which a building can be build to the previous standard . that give industry time to adapt to new standard and allow work that be already under way to be complete without major disruption . when the 2021 standard be introduce , a six - month period be allow between lay the regulation and the standard come into force , follow by a 12 - month transitional period . that mean the regulation be lay on 15 December 2021 , with the transitional period end on 15 June 2023 . this Bill do make provision for the Secretary of State to put in place transitional arrangement . however , our reading of the Bill be that those arrangement can not contradict or override its main premise that new home build from 1 October 2026 must be fit with solar panel . as a result , we be concerned that there may not be sufficient time for appropriate transitional arrangement to be set . we believe it be vital that they be set , give that the construction sector typically plan ahead by at least two , if not three or even more , year . provide merely a matter of week between publish such significant legislation and its taking effect would not be realistic or fair , in our view . I have be listen carefully to what the Minister have say . do he agree that a vote on Second Reading be a vote on the principle of the Bill , and the objection that he have be raise be micro , technical one ? do he not agree that the urgency of the climate crisis and the immense benefit associate with solar pv mean that he should stop rain on the parade of this Bill and give we the opportunity to vote on photon ? the hon . Lady make a fair challenge , but the Government do not intend to proceed on the basis of primary legislation . she might find that the primary legislation route be ultimately slow than the way in which we intend to introduce the future standard later this year . speed be absolutely an issue we be grapple with , but I gently challenge the idea that this private Member ' s Bill be the fast way to proceed , even leave aside the point I have raise , which I do not consider to be minor or technical . in contrast , the future home standard consultation set out two option for transitional arrangement , which we believe be far more robust . the first option involve a six - month period between the lay date of the regulation and the regulation come into force . the second option involve a period of up to 12 month . that approach to transition will ensure that as many home as possible be require to meet the new standard in a way that be structure and achievable . it be our responsibility to ensure that the standard we set for new home be ambitious , but also technically feasible and deliverable , as I have say . for the reason I have set out , and other that I have not cover today , we believe that forthcoming future standard , develop as a clear and coherent response to the 2023 consultation , be a more appropriate and arguably fast mean of achieve the Bill ' s aim , which we fully share with the hon . member for Cheltenham . reflect on the point make by the hon . member for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) about industry use excuse to push back on deliver home , can the Minister give assurance that in their effort the Government will push ahead with renewable energy , particularly solar , and do everything they can to ensure that industry and housing company do not use viability as an excuse not to deliver the many new home that we need ? my hon . friend make a good point . I be afraid that the time to go into it be not available to I , but I would mention the Government ' s intention to revise viability guidance this year to strengthen the section 106 developer contribution system rather than implement the infrastructure levy that the previous Government devise . in lot of different respect , this Government be absolutely ensure that developer be hold to the commitment they make , and , as she will know , we give significant weight to the benefit of renewable and low - carbon energy proposal more generally in the NPPF . as I be say , maintain consistency with the establish direction of travel be vital . there be a history of environmental standard be commit to and then withdraw by previous government , which have understandably leave industry reluctant to invest in prepare for new standard . however , since its announcement in 2019 , the future home standard have become a world - recognise framework , give industry time to develop the necessary supply chain , skill and construction practice , and many developer be already build to high standard in anticipation of its roll - out . introduce conflicting legislation at this stage could create significant confusion and risk reverse the confidence and momentum that we have work hard to establish . let I reassure the House that it be our firm intention to legislate for future standard later this year , as I have make clear , and to increase rooftop solar deployment significantly as a result . I understand that hon . member and industry will need more detail about what the standard will entail before they can arrive at a judgment as to their efficacy . although we need to take the necessary time to get that right , my intention be to set out further detail as soon as I be able — in the not - too - distant future , I hope . I understand that 1 . 5 million Germans live in flat that have solar panel on their balcony . will the Minister consider that as an option , in both new and retrofitted housing , as he look at this important work ? as I say , we will set out further detail on the new standard in the not - too - distant future . I reiterate my thank to the hon . member for Cheltenham for introduce this commendable Bill . although the Government can not support it for the reason that I have give , we very much agree with the sentiment and ambition that have motivate it , and I recognise and appreciate all the dedicated work that I know he have put into it . for that reason , and assume that he be willing , I would very much welcome an ongoing dialogue with he as the Government progress our work on the new standard , so that he have an opportunity to build on the important contribution that he have make in introduce this legislation , and to work closely with I and my official prior to the introduction of our legislation so that his work and the view he have develop be properly incorporate and take into account . on that basis , and give the widespread consensus on the objective of the Bill , I hope that he will not seek to divide the House on its Second Reading . I thank the Minister for his generous word . although I accept that I will not be crack open a beer this evening to celebrate the Bill ' s pass — perhaps a bottle of Corona — this have be an important debate and it have demonstrate consensus across the House , save for the local difficulty of the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) , which we should not go into again . a range of view be express about the energy mix . my view be that we need a mix of energy generation that include all the thing discuss today . I be pleased to hear that the matter will be up for future discussion and I look forward to work on it with the Government — particularly on the important point of apply pressure to developer in a way that get the pragmatic outcome that we all deserve . I thank all member for their contribution to the discussion . order , that the debate be now adjourn — ( Christian Wakeford . ) debate to be resume on Friday 11 July . Licensing Hours Extension Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I be delighted to have the opportunity to stand before the House to bring forward a Bill that make an amendment to the Licensing Act 2003 that will support our vibrant hospitality sector and help our community come together to celebrate momentous moment in our national life . I be sure I can add a few more pun to our deliberation today . the Bill will do that by change the procedure for licensing hour extension in England and Wales , so that the measure be subject to the negative procedure rather than the affirmative procedure , as be currently the case . before proceed in more detail , I want to pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) who bring forward a similar Bill in the previous Parliament . it enjoy wide support across the House , only for it to fall when Parliament be dissolve for the general election . I be pleased to be carry forward the work that she start . I would also like to thank everyone who support the Bill , particularly those who have come to the House today and all those who attend my drop - in last week , in collaboration with the British Beer and Pub Association and ukhospitality . it be important to start talk about our pub and hospitality industry , something I can claim to know a thing or two about have have a 30 - year career in it before come to this place . pub and other venue be so much more than just business . they be often a focal point of our community , from one generation to the next , and where we gather for life ' s big and small moment . they be also fundamental to community cohesion . two third of adult believe that our local pub be vital to combat loneliness and social isolation , accord to a survey by YouGov in 2024 . it will come as a surprise to no one that I believe it be in Wrexham where the fine pub and beer can be find . in no particular order , there be great pub such as Saith Seren , the Acton Park , the Nags Head , the Red Lion in Marchwiel , the Crown in Llay , the Quarry Arms , the Buck in Bangor on Dee , the Cunliffe Arms , the George and Dragon in Brymbo , the Golden Lion in Coedpoeth and the Kings Mill . I will stop there . I be delighted to hear that my hon . friend will now have , I think , at least 12 free drink in his constituency ! do he agree with I about the importance of community - own and operate pub , and the additional social value they can provide to local community and group ? order . before Mr Ranger return to his foot , I should obviously reference all the fantastic pub in Sussex Weald ! I absolutely agree with my hon . friend and thank he for that intervention . I get the feeling we be go to hear a lot of pub name today . I name just a few of the 78 pub that span my constituency . I will not comment on how many of they I have personally visit , possibly more than once . hospitality be also vital to tourism in Wrexham . it contribute nearly £ 120 million to our local economy , and I know that that will be similarly true in other member ' constituency . since the arrival of two well - know Hollywood actor in Wrexham , we have welcome visitor from far afield , eager to see the home of Wrexham AFC at the world - famous racecourse Ground and , of course , to be pull a pint by landlord Wayne at the Turf — there be another one . accommodate the recent influx of visitor would never have be possible without pub , cafe , restaurant and hotel step up to the plate . I know that that be the case across Britain , where dedicated staff work hard to deliver great service , food and drink to customer . I thank they for all they do , all year round . section 172 of the Licensing Act 2003 provide the ability for the Home Secretary to make an order extend licensing hour on a blanket basis , thereby allow all license premise to open for long at moment of important celebration . the Daily Telegraph recently visit my constituency to interview people to report on the status and progress of the new Labour Government . this piece be largely conduct by interview people reside within , or emerge from , the Moon under the Water public house on Watford High Street . have my hon . friend consider the implication of these proposal on the ability to do such easy journalism in constituency such as mine ? I have not consider that , but my hon . friend make a valid point . measure to extend hour provide the additional benefit of boost the hospitality sector . Blanket licensing hour extension introduce by the Secretary of State mean that business do not have to apply for individual extension , should they wish to stay open long to celebrate a particular event . under normal circumstance , venue have to apply for a temporary event notice , which cost £ 21 for an application and involve considerable administrative work . the Bill will have the twofold impact of save business time and money and mean that local licensing authority avoid the strain of be require to process large number of individual application , possibly at very late notice . license hour extension in England and Wales have be implement on occasion , include royal wedding and jubilee and major sporting event , such as when the England man ' s football squad reach the final of the Euros in 2020 and 2024 . these event bring we together to share in these occasion , whether that be their joy , the perhaps inevitable trauma when England lose on penalty again , or the anticipated jubilation when Wales reach the world cup final or when Wrexham reach the FA cup final . there be generally less of an urgent issue with royal event , for which more notice be generally available . the situation be much more complicated with sporting event , when there can be only a few day ' notice of a team reach a semi - final or final . unfortunately , that have lead to significant occasion where it have not be possible for the Government to extend licensing hour . as we be in the business of name - checking , I be delighted to say that after a period of lamentable closure , the Half Moon and seven Stars in Preston , the village I live in , will be reopen its door at 5 o ' clock tonight , celebrate , I think , Pubs Day today — neither the hon . Gentleman nor I will be there , unfortunately . more seriously , the implication of this Bill be considerable for an industry that have be under great pressure for a long time , particularly since covid . be it not the case that it be extraordinary that these hoop have to be jump through to do what most people would regard as normal and sensible ? I agree 100 % with the right hon . member . what he raise be what the Bill seek to deal with , basically . I join he in celebrate the reopening of the pub in the area where he live . there have be time when the Government have not be able to extend licensing hour for significant occasion , because the require secondary legislation be subject to the affirmative procedure , which mean that both Houses of Parliament need to approve the measure follow a debate . as such , if Parliament be in recess , it be simply not possible to introduce such measure . a recent instance of that be when the Lionesses reach the final of the world cup in August 2023 , during a parliamentary recess . that mean it be not possible for the Government to extend the hour for that momentous match . as a result , pub and hospitality venue miss out on an historic and unforgettable occasion . with the continued sporting success of our national team on the world stage , my hope be that we will see more occasion in the near future where the need for such measure arise , include such event as the upcoming FIFA man ' s world cup in 2026 in North America , the 2027 rugby world cup in Australia , the FIFA woman ' s world cup in 2027 in Brazil , and the International Cricket Council T20 world cup in 2026 in India and Sri Lanka . in the interest of parliamentary sportsmanship , we all want to see success for our scottish and northern irish team , too . I be sure that member across the House will recognise the tough hand that the pub and hospitality sector have be deal over recent year . at the end of July 2024 , the total number of licensed premise in Britain be just 99 , 000 , some 45 , 000 of which be pub . the number of licensed premise have plummet by 30 % over the past 20 year , and we have lose 25 % of pub since 2003 . we should use our role as parliamentarian in this place , and the opportunity that afford we , to speak on behalf of the industry , and it be for that reason that I believe it be important that we be here today . hospitality be crucial for not only local economy , but local opportunity . the sector support more than 1 million job and provide great career opportunity and flexible working in all part of the UK . I know from first - hand experience that somebody can go from wash pot to run the place . I take this opportunity to address any concern that member may have about any reduction in parliamentary scrutiny . in the past , these order have attract no controversy or dissent , and I expect that to remain the case . indeed , it be hard to imagine any hon . member object to an extension of licensing hour for , say , a royal wedding . for that reason , I believe that the negative resolution procedure be entirely appropriate . let I be clear that this Bill do not take away the right to seek a debate . if any member of the House or the other place object to a certain extension , they would still have the ability to pray against it . I also reassure the House that this amendment to the parliamentary process be the only change that this Bill seek to make . it do not change the fundamental mechanic of how licensing hour extension operate and be decide on . they will still be determine on a case - by - case basis by the Secretary of State and will be introduce only if the event in question be " an occasion of exceptional international , national , or local significance " . the word " exceptional " be important here . the Bill also do not alter the process for temporary event notice . I believe that the Bill speak for itself . it be a small amendment to the Licensing Act that will have a big effect by allow for more efficient use of Parliament ' s valuable time . it be a simple but significant measure , and I be grateful to all colleague for their support today and in the lead - up to this debate . let we raise a glass to our pub and hospitality industry . I commend the Bill to the House . I will try to be brief . I thank the hon . member for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) for bring forward this important Bill . pub be incredibly important place for more than just enjoy a drink : they be at the heart of local community up and down the country and bring people together in a truly unique way , which be ever more important in this modern world . the sector be also an integral part of our cultural heritage and a significant contributor to our economy , with almost 1 million people work in it . like the hon . Gentleman , I start my work life in licensed premise . from traditional pub in Basildon and Billericay , such as the Chequers on Billericay High Street , to the more modern Beehive in Basildon , the bar at the Laindon Community Centre and the taproom at the Billericay Brewery , local pub across our community come in all shape and size . hard - work landlord , owner and staff make these local institution what they be . our pub have face a tough time . during the last Parliament , I win the parliamentarian of the year award from the all - party parliamentary beer group for my work to push forward on the draught beer duty relief . this Bill be another small but important step to help our pub . it be limited and sensible , and simplify the process to allow pub to open for key moment that bind our country together , whether it be a national celebration , a sporting event or a royal wedding , be a sensible step forward . there be obviously big factor to decide whether pub in this country stay open — this be not the day to go into vat , national insurance and so on — but , through this Bill , the hon . member for Wrexham present the House with a real opportunity to make a meaningful difference and support our pub in an immediate and practical way for the future . the Licensing Hours Extensions Bill be a targeted measure to allow pub to remain open during those moment that can really instil national pride in our country and bring we together in our public house . let we support it and work towards a thriving and resilient pub sector . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) on his private Member ' s Bill , and I be proud to be a name supporter . as a Welsh MP , I know that few thing unite Welsh people like support our rugby and football team , and love for our local pub run deep . place such as the Mayquay in Kinmel bay , the Mason ' s arm in Denbigh and the Station in Colwyn bay be vibrant hub of our community , and they bring people together during moment of national significance . this Bill build on that important role by ensure that community can gather for major event , while boost local economy . I be sure that we have all hear from the hospitality sector in our constituency about the challenge they have face , particularly in recent year . the hospitality industry be a fundamental part of Welsh culture , and it be vital to the economy of Clwyd North . however , pub be close at concern rate across the UK , with the number of licensed premise down by 30 % since 20 year ago . More need to be do to encourage tourism in small pocket of the country , such as mine . in my view , support our pub be a crucial step . this Bill would bring together local and visitor in north Wales during significant national sporting event , be they football , rugby or something else . I be proud to champion Welsh rugby union game at Parc Eirias in my constituency . I believe it be vital that we support such game in north Wales , and this Bill allow we more opportunity to celebrate success together locally . to be clear , this Bill be not about diminish local authority control ; it be about ensure fairness and efficiency when large - scale event call for a national approach . come from a local authority background , I know that the provision in the Bill would ease the pressure on council and their licensing committee . it be a common - sense proposal that will unite community , bolster the hospitality sector and reduce unnecessary bureaucracy . I urge member from across the House to back this Bill . I be absolutely delighted to support this Bill , which have be bring forward by my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) . he be a great champion of pub and of the hospitality trade in our community in north Wales . as a member of the all - party parliamentary group for beer and the APPG for hospitality and tourism , I be very well aware of the vital role that pub play in our local economy . in my constituency of Bangor Aberconwy , we be proud to have 119 pub and three brewery . like my hon . friend , I have not visit all of they yet , but I be dedicate to work on it . pub in Bangor Aberconwy support 2 , 000 local job , many of which be fill by young people get their first taste of the world of work and learn valuable life skill , so it be my turn to do some name - checking . pub such as the Union in Bangor , the Albion in Conwy and the King ' s Head in Llandudno play a vital role in our community by bring people together over a pint , and no more so than during national sporting event . the 5 June 2022 be a very special night . it be the night that Gareth Bale score a 34th - minute screamer to secure Wales ' s place in the world cup final for the first time since 1958 . my whole family watch that match , and it be absolutely brilliant . there be Wales flag and kid everywhere , and , when he score , there be beer everywhere too — I will never forget it . although my national team ' s fortune might have take a bit of a turn since then , I hope that the Bill will make it easy for pub and club across Wales to bring people together all over again to watch Wales in the world cup final in the USA in 2026 . I think that I might be push my luck with that , but give that my hon . friend mention it , I think he will agree that it would be an event of exceptional national significance , which we would all want to support . in all seriousness , this Bill will make it easy for pub to bring people together , celebrate national event , support the sector and streamline the process , while stay true to the spirit of the Licensing Act . I sincerely hope that member on both side of the House will join I in support the Bill . Northampton have a fantastic and varied hospitality sector , and this Bill will support local business across Northampton South . there be over 30 pub in my constituency alone , and they employ nearly 1 , 500 people . I have be very fortunate to visit a number of they over the year , and I have now visit many on constituency visit , include the Deers Leap in Bellinge , which be the last community pub in the eastern district ; the Pomfret Arms , which have just reopen after be close due to some disastrous flooding on the River Nene ; the Britannia , where I pull my first pint on camera — I think it be safe to say I will never make a good barman — and the White Hart in Great Houghton , which be part of the Everards brewery group . I start my career in construction by work for Pick Everard , which be own by the Everard family , so the group be close to my heart . Northampton be also home to a number of brewery : famously , Carlsberg — serve here in the House — but also Phipps brewery , which serve pub across our region . while I be talk about the pub that will benefit from this Bill , I should give special mention to my local , the Artizan , which reside just over the border in the neighbouring constituency of my hon . Friend Member for Northampton North ( Lucy Rigby ) . the Bill may sound technical to my constituent , but at its heart it be about something far more important . the minor amendment propose will mean that , whether Parliament be sit or not , a decision can be make nationally to change licensing hour . as have be note , it will enable hour to be change during major sporting event , which be great news for the thousand of rugby and football fan in my town who follow Saints and Cobblers player when they be call up for national duty . we hear that licensing hour could not be extend for the Lionesses game because Parliament be not sit . do my hon . friend agree that the change in the Bill will give we the flexibility to ensure that , on such occasion , fan will be able watch game while support our pub ? we also have an opportunity today to progress legislation on the safety of fan in another way ; my Bill be no . 15 on the list , and it would legislate to prevent — order . point beautifully make . I be look forward to my hon . friend ' s Bill — a much - need piece of legislation . the british Beer and Pub Association back this change to the law because it know that the industry need it . and as a proud member , along with other in the House , of the all - party parliamentary beer group and the all - party parliamentary group for hospitality and tourism , I know that we need it , too . the Bill be about help our pub and community to continue the proud tradition of celebrate british success together , and I fully support it . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) for introduce the Bill — a small change , but one that will make a big difference to our community . there be a few principal reason why I support it . first , as other have say , it allow we to bring community together at moment of national importance , make it a common - sense change that our community would welcome . in many instance , they can not believe the process that exist at the moment . constituent across the country — certainly mine — would welcome this relatively minor change so that they can come together , support their local hospitality spot and mark those occasion . secondly , it will have a material positive impact on our local hospitality sector — pub , but also restaurant and cafe . our local business , particularly small business , seek flexibility above everything else , so that they can adapt and take up any opportunity for further income . they also want to play a part in our high street and town centre . the change will bring that flexibility . I have 65 different hospitality spot in my constituency , which employ almost 1 , 000 people and make a contribution of more than £ 50 million . these small step can make a big difference to they , and I be pleased to support they . finally , the Bill will relieve pressure on overstretch local authority up and down the country . council talk about the burden of red tape , not just for local business but for themselves . the Bill will ensure not only that parliamentary time be spend well , but that exist pressure on council be relieve . for that reason , I very much support the Bill . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , and I thank the hon . member for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) for introduce the Bill today . I also commend the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) who lead a version of the Bill in the previous Parliament before untimely event curtail its progress . speak of untimely event , I think we can all agree on the collective disappointment when a pub be close for or unable to show an important sporting event . I be sure hospitality venue up and down the country will welcome this legislation as provide certainty that they will be able to open for significant event . at this point I must declare an interest as a regular patron of Stockton West ' s pub . we have some of the good — no , the good — pub in the country , and I know that they always welcome the opportunity to stay open a little later when circumstance allow . as mention already , when the England woman ' s football team progress to England ' s first world cup final since 1966 , the request to extend licensing hour come in late and during a parliamentary recess , which make it impossible to grant the request , deny many business the opportunity to extend their licence and many punter the chance to gather and show their early - morning support . ensure that the Government can make the change swiftly while retain the necessary safeguard be a sensible and measured approach . I hope it will resolve the issue that government have face in the past and allow change to be make when need . it may be unlikely , but I remain hopeful that one day the mighty Stockton Town will take advantage of those change with a future appearance , late in the evening , in a champion league final . while I might have to wait a while for that , in the meantime I express our support for the change and look forward to take advantage of it during the next international tournament . I feel quite intoxicate by the number of local licensed premise that have be mention this morning . it must have set some sort of record . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) on his success in the ballot for private member ' Bills — in the 20 year I have be a Member I have never have any success in it . I also congratulate he on his decision to pick this worthwhile topic as the subject for his Bill and I recognise his long career in the hospitality sector , as well as his clear expertise in the area . I be also incredibly impressed by the detailed knowledge member have of licensed premise in their constituency . I note the mention of the all - party parliamentary group on beer , which be obviously an important group and have a large and thriving membership . I be grateful for the contribution of other hon . member to the debate . I note the contribution from the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , who I think it be fair to say have a great deal of experience in pub , and from my hon . friend the Member for Clwyd North ( Gill German ) who talk about the Welsh perspective . I admire the determination of my hon . friend the Member for Bangor Aberconwy ( Claire Hughes ) to visit all her local pub . I enjoy hear about the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) be the home of certain brewery . my hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) remind we of the importance of the Bill ' s proposal to restaurant , cafe and the high street , talk about the 65 hospitality site in her constituency and the 1 , 000 people employ by they . I be pleased to say that there have be a high degree of consensus on this measure , and I can say from the outset that the Government support the Bill and will do what we can to facilitate its passage here and in the other place . I also pay tribute to the work of my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) who lead on this issue in the last Parliament , and manage to get her Bill through this place , although the general election intervene , unfortunately , before it could make its way on to the statute book . my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham , in his excellent speech , set out a compelling case for the Bill . section 172 of the Licensing Act 2003 already make provision for the Secretary of State to make an order that relax license hour in England and Wales for " an occasion of exceptional international , national , or local significance " . in practice , the Home Secretary determine whether an occasion meet those criterion on a case - by - case basis , and order must specify the date and time of the relaxation . first , such order bring about benefit to business , which can stay open for long and thus increase revenue . secondly , community also benefit , as they be able to come together to celebrate important event . thirdly , order benefit licensing authority , which do not have to process large number of licence extension individually , often in a very limited time period . of course , it be for business to decide whether they wish to take advantage of extension , but if they do wish to stay open , a blanket licensing extension automatically mean that they do not have to give a temporary event notice to their local authority , which save they time as well as the associate fee . as a former licensing board member , I welcome this Bill . pub in Falkirk would certainly have benefit from extension during the Euro 2020 and Euro 2024 final , as well as for the world cup final in 2023 , and I declare an interest as a member of the tartan army . we need to recognise the impact that extension have on hospitality worker in the Bill . would the Minister endorse Unite ' s " get I Home safely " campaign and encourage business who be go to benefit from this extension to make sure that their staff get home safely ? absolutely . my hon . friend make an important point about ensure that those who work in hospitality be well protect and that get they home be an important part of employer ' duty to keep their workforce safe . in the past , licensing hour have be relax for high - profile royal event , such as his Majesty the King ' s coronation , her late Majesty the Queen ' s 90th birthday and her platinum jubilee , as well as the royal wedding in 2018 and 2011 . licensing hour have also be extend for sporting event , include the FIFA world cup 2014 , the Euro 2020 final and the Euro 2024 semi - final and final . when the Government have propose extension to licensing hour , they have receive cross - party support in both Houses and have be pass unopposed . as we have hear , the Licensing Act specify that any order be subject to the affirmative procedure and need to be approve by both Houses of Parliament before it come into force . the Bill propose to amend the Licensing Act so that these order be subject to the negative resolution procedure , rather than the affirmative procedure . that will enable extension to be implement at short notice if necessary , include when Parliament be in recess . the current arrangement mean that fast - pace extension be simply not always possible . that be problematic in the context of sporting event , as the participation of national team in the later stage of competition be uncertain until the last moment . I will provide an example to illustrate that . in 2021 , the England man ' s team make it through to the final of the delay Euro 2020 tournament . with the help of the usual channel , the previous Government manage to push an order through Parliament in the three day between the semi - final and the final . to emphasise my early point , I note there be complete agreement across the House for the measure . in the summer of 2023 , the England woman ' s team equally commendably reach the final of the world cup . however , that tournament take place in the summer when Parliament be in recess , so it be sadly not possible to extend licensing hour for the match . the Bill will rectify this issue and ensure that licensing hour can be extend at short notice when necessary , include when Parliament be in recess . do the Minister not share my concern that this be a Bill of very limited ambition ? consider what she have say , surely there be a strong case for deregulate this whole area and for get Parliament and the Government out of hospitality business ’ hair . the measure before we be simple and straightforward , and the debate show there be widespread agreement in the House about they . I hope that the hon . Gentleman will , in this case , not cause any problem to the Bill go forward . the Bill will rectify the issue we have be discuss and streamline the parliamentary process , but it do not seek to alter the fundamental content of the Licensing Act 2003 . however , the Government fully intend to plan ahead , so that wherever possible licensing hour extension order in England and Wales can be bring in with time for full public consultation . the power in section 172 of the Licensing Act have , rightly , be use sparingly , and there be no intention to change the frequency with which the relevant power be invoke . as the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention , it be important that I make clear that the police have generally be supportive of extension for royal event , and that there have be no major increase in crime and disorder attributable to temporary extended drinking hour . however , the police have previously express some concern about licensing extension relate to sporting event , namely football . it be therefore of the utmost importance that the police have the opportunity to put forward their view , and we will always give due weight to any concern raise before press ahead with an extension of licensing hour . the Government recognise the importance of provide the police with ample time to put in place additional police measure that may be necessary to minimise any potential increase in crime and disorder as a result of any temporary licensing hour extension . to that end , the Government remain firmly committed to continue to plan in advance , wherever possible . in conclusion , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham for bring forward the legislation and those who have speak in support of it . it be a simple measure that will free up parliamentary time , help the Government to continue to support business and local authority , and allow for celebration of important event in the life of the nation . the Government fully support the Bill , and it be very important to get it pass before last order . I call Andrew Ranger to wind up . I thank all hon . member for their contribution today and for the broad consensus across the House . I think I know quite a lot of hospitality venue across the country , but I have learn about a few more today , which have be good . I will be sure to try to visit they , if possible . I thank the Minister for her support and her comment . in summary , the Bill introduce a simple , straightforward measure that will enable we to cut out an unnecessary administrative burden for business , use parliamentary time well and support our hospitality sector . I trust that all member from across the House will be able to support the Bill . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Absent Voting ( election in Scotland and Wales ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . ensure that elector can vote be fundamental to our democracy . although most of we choose to vote in person , many people face barrier that prevent they from do so . in October 2023 , the online absent voting application service be launch , give voter the option to apply online for their postal or proxy vote for the first time . the service allow people the choice to apply online or to use the exist option to apply through a traditional paper application , should they wish . the service be currently available for elector in Great Britain for United Kingdom Parliament election and for police and crime commissioner election in England and Wales . in England , voter can also use the service to apply for a postal or proxy vote in all local election . the value of the new online absent voting application service be make very clear in the 2024 general election , not long after their launch . datum publish by the Government show that over 1 . 5 million people in Great Britain make an application to vote by post or by proxy vote in the run - up to the general election last year . between 22 May — the day the election be call — and the deadline for absent vote application , 84 % of postal vote application and 93 % of proxy vote application be make use the online service . it be clear that elector find it effective , with over 90 % of those use it during that period recording that they be satisfied with the service . for voter in Scotland and Wales , the option to use the digital route for absent voting arrangement be limited . an elector in Scotland or Wales who want a postal or proxy vote for a devolved Parliament or local election be still require to fill out a paper application form and physically send it in to be process . the Bill would end the inconsistency and give voter in Scotland and Wales an equal choice in how they apply for an absent vote for use in the Scottish Parliament , Senedd Cymru and local election . my hon . friend be make a fantastic speech . do she agree that — order . please be seat , both of you . Ms Gilbert , when you take an intervention , which be your choice , you must sit down . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill be vital to ensure that everyone in Scotland , Wales and across the UK have every opportunity to vote in election , and that we must continue to do all we can through school and other mean of encouragement to make sure that people fully understand the democratic process and that it be accessible at all time and in all way ? yes , I do agree . the Gould review and report make it clear that make voting accessible to everyone , particularly young and disabled people , be critical to encouraging as many people as possible to vote . the Scottish Parliament and Senedd Cymru be both hold their parliamentary election in May 2026 , and it would be a great benefit to voter and electoral administrator alike if access to the online service be to be provide in time for those poll . this be not about force elector down a specific route to apply ; all elector would continue to be able to make an absent vote application on paper if they wish . all the Bill would do be give they an additional option to apply online . one consideration that I must emphasise be the importance of devolution . it be absolutely right that responsibility for local election and election to the Scottish Parliament and Senedd Cymru be devolve to those body . the Bill be carefully draft to respect that , and the requirement for legislative consent in respect of relevant part of the Bill will duly be follow . the Bill would give the Welsh and scottish Governments power to enable application for postal and proxy vote for devolved election to be make digitally through the new online service . there be two further aspect to the Bill . first , regulation make under the Bill would require elector apply for an absent vote for devolved election in Scotland and Wales to provide their national insurance number as part of their application . to be clear , that identity check requirement be not the same as voter identification at polling station , where photographic identification must be produce . instead , it be an up - front check at the point the postal or proxy vote application be make , and simply require the applicant to provide their national insurance number . the same requirement apply to absent voting application for reserved election and have be in place for application to register to vote for devolved and reserved election since 2014 . secondly , the Bill would align the renewal cycle for devolved election with the three - year cycle in place for reserved election . instead of have to refresh their signature every five year , elector would instead have to reapply for their postal voting arrangement every three year . that be do to avoid confuse elector and to ensure that the signature hold on file be recent . the measure in the Bill have be discuss with Scottish and Welsh Ministers , who have agree to every element . through the Bill , we can end the divergence and remove burden on voter in Scotland and Wales . the Bill will remove inconsistency across our democracy and ensure that it be modern , secure , transparent and fair . I commend the Bill to the House . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) for bring forward this important piece of Member ' s legislation . have take a Members ' bill through the Scottish Parliament a number of year ago , I know how daunting and time - consume the process be , so I be very grateful to all colleague who have table Bills , allow we to debate so many important subject . with turnout at election drop across the country , it be important that we as legislator do everything we can to encourage and facilitate voter . we all have a role to play , whether that be speak to young people in our constituency about the importance of their vote and their democratic right be respect , or bring forward legislation that make the process easy for all . we have to take those responsibility seriously — in fact , to grasp they with both hand . postal and proxy vote be a vital component of our election , as they make voting possible for voter who be perhaps ill or on holiday , or whose work hour make it difficult to get to a polling station . as we have hear , since October 2023 , the online absent voter application service have be available to voter who wish to vote by post and wish to apply online . the option to apply use a paper form be , of course , still available to anyone who wish to use it . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) for bring this Bill before the House . do my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) agree that the online service provide a vital resource for people with accessibility requirement — for those who be perhaps blind or partially sight ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . that be something I be particularly aware of in my constituency , which — as I will talk more about later on — have an age demographic . the online service be vital . the option to apply by post be available for UK parliamentary election and for police and fire commissioner election in England and Wales . voter in England can also use the service to apply for postal or proxy vote in local election , but voter in Scotland and Wales currently have more limited option , as a paper form be still require for absent voting application for a devolved Parliament or local election . the Bill will remove that restriction for voter in Scotland and Wales , and will also make the conduct of election possibly cheaper and certainly more manageable for electoral administrator . in Scotland , we use three different voting system , which in and of itself can be complicate for voter . we ask they to vote by first past the post for election to this place ; we ask they to vote use the additional member system for election to the Scottish Parliament ; and we ask they to vote by single transferable vote for local authority election . in spite of the fact that some of those method have be in place since 1999 , I have encounter voter over the piece who still find that confusing , so anything we can do to take away any complexity or complication from the process of voting must be very welcome . the Bill be also respectful of the devolution settlement — something that be very important to I as a former Minister for Parliament in the Scottish Government . this Bill seek to give the power to enact those part of the system that be devolve to the Scottish and Welsh Governments , but importantly , it also allow enough time for the process to be introduce in time for the next round of Scottish and Welsh parliamentary election in 2026 . rise — rise — I give way . do my hon . friend share my concern that many young voter — especially first - time voter — at the most recent election in 2024 will believe that they have already sign up for a postal or proxy vote , and that this Bill will be the first step in allow people to permanently register for all election in Scotland and Wales online ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention — I be rather spoilt for choice . I absolutely agree : young people will think that . young people be particularly use to sign up online and think that once they have do something online , it be probably there in perpetuity . in most case , they be correct ; in this , they be not . the Bill will help to resolve that issue . I mention that we be go to have Scottish Parliament and Welsh parliamentary election in 2026 , but in Scotland , those election will be quickly follow by local authority election in 2027 , so it be very important that the Bill be enact in time for those election to use this new system . this be a crucial step towards ensure a consistent and straightforward voting process for people in Scotland and Wales . I thank my hon . friend for give way — and other Members for not ask she to give way at the same time . during the most recent general election campaign , an awful lot of time be spend explain to voter exactly which election they be sign up for , which one they have postal vote for , where they have to sign up again , whether that could be do online , which confirmation they have to wait for and various other thing . that cause extra complexity for return officer and deputy return officer in Fife , where there be many conversation , waste a lot of time for candidate of all party , to ensure that we all understand the process . do she agree that this will make the process much simple for everyone ? I agree that this will make it simple . I think back to a number of conversation I hear or have on the doorstep on the issue . I think I have begin to get my head around the situation , but I then hear colleague who be knock door with I try to explain it to citizen on the doorstep , and it become clear to I that perhaps I have not explain it properly to they . we all have a role to play , and anything we can do to make this process more obvious , more accessible and simple will be very helpful . I know from last year ' s general election , Deputy Presiding Officer — sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker ; old habit die hard — how important postal and proxy vote be to voter in my community of Glasgow West , which have the large number of register postal voter in the city of Glasgow . as I say early , that perhaps reflect the age demographic in part of my constituency . voter should never be hinder in cast their vote by an overly complicated system , and this Bill be a major step forward in reduce that complexity . it be vital that every eligible voter have easy access to the democratic process , and this Bill will help to achieve that . I be first elect in 1999 to another Parliament , and over the year I have work with many return officer and see for myself the work that they and their staff do , year in , year out . even when there be not election on , they be prepare , and ensure that electoral register be up to date and the process for postal and proxy vote be in place . I thank all the return officer I have work with over the year and their staff for everything they do to make the process as efficient as possible . hopefully , today , with the help of my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith and her Bill , we will help they to make that process even well . I commend the effort of my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) to ensure that we debate this issue today . we must continue to break down the barrier to voting , to ensure increase engagement with and turnout at every form of election in all the nation of the UK . in my first speech in the House , I refer to the issue of turnout at the general election . we all have a duty to look , across all the system we have in place , at how we can increase engagement with the political process , and with voting . I be acutely aware of the importance of increase engagement with our election . my constituency of Glasgow North see a turnout of around 50 % at the last general election . that may have be in part due to a summer election in a constituency that contain a large amount of student accommodation , at which people be register but not present . it remain incumbent on the House to continue to look at the electoral system to promote great engagement in every election . the Bill be important for make it easy to engage with our democracy for group in Scotland and Wales who face barrier of accessibility to the voting system . I have mention the summer election happen while student be away , but when they be in student accommodation , they be away from their home , which may be where they be register . encourage their access to proxy and postal voting be important in engage they . the point my hon . friend make about student during the summer be absolutely correct . do he find on the doorstep , during the most recent general election , isolated incident of family in Scotland have go away on holiday , as it be during the scottish school holiday , which be different from those in other part of the United Kingdom ? do he also agree that the Bill propose by the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) would help we to deal with that problem , as well as help to deal with the issue in place where there be increase number of student ? I agree with my hon . friend . an issue raise during the election be that the period for apply do not allow much time for many family to apply who have book to go away at the beginning of the school holiday . the Bill would make online application easy and speedy . as ever , my hon . friend speak passionately about his constituency , but the Bill benefit we not just in the summertime . my constituency have a by - election for Colinton , Oxgangs and Fairmilehead next week on 23 January — I will not mention our candidate ' s name , Madam Deputy Speaker — but it be wintertime ; the day be short , and it be cold . a lot of people , particularly old people , would benefit from the ability to vote by post or proxy when the weather be so cold . do he agree that people would also benefit from the measure in wintertime ? I agree that there be benefit from the Bill in all season . I realise that I have now set Members the challenge of intervene to speak about spring and autumn . in winter , there be few daylight hour and it be cold , and people may not want to go out in the dark . the Bill would make it easy for they to access postal and proxy voting . there be reference in an early intervention to those who be blind or partially sight and use screen reader . apply online be much easy for they ; it lift barrier to their involvement and engagement in the electoral process . those be just some of the group who would benefit if we pass this legislation , modernise access to the electoral system for the devolve Parliaments , and provide the ability to introduce such measure for local government election , too . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) on bring in the Bill . do my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) agree that the Bill demonstrate that Scotland ' s Labour mp be ensure that both of Scotland ' s government be work effectively for they ? I certainly agree that it be important to see the Scottish Government and the United Kingdom Government work together . on that point , be my hon . friend as sadden and surprised as I be to see not a single SNP Member here ? it strike I that if they claim to be Scotland ' s party , they need to be here to talk about legislation that affect Scotland . my hon . Friend ask whether I be sadden and surprised ; I be sadden . it be important that while we make it easy to apply online for postal and proxy vote , we do not take away any ability to apply via paper , and I welcome the fact that the legislation do not do that . many do not have access to digital mean of apply , so it be welcome that the Bill create additional ability to apply . do my hon . friend agree that it be vital that people have a number of way to access the democratic process , and that no one should be lock out of exercise their democratic right purely through a point of process ? I absolutely agree , and it be important that we look to increase the way in which people can access the voting system , because for many , digital be the usual way to apply for service , whether private or public . that be what they expect and their default . similarly , there be group of people for whom apply on paper , in writing and so on be their normal way of interact with a whole range of service , whether private or public . it be important that all people find a way that they be comfortable with to access the electoral system . we all agree that we need well system and support for ensure increase participation in democratic process and election . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill make participation in election more effective and easy , and make the application process more reliable , which have the potential to drive up turnout at election and improve our democracy ? I agree with my hon . friend — I be not use to agree with so many people . it seem unusual , but I will carry on . my hon . friend make an important point , and if we can increase participation by look at the process in place , we should welcome that . it be important to look at all the system . however , simply change the system and process for access the voting system will not in itself reduce disengagement with the political process . there be big and wide issue than just the form of application , so while I very much welcome the Bill as a means by which we can help people to access the political process , we all need to think about how to engage people across our country of the United Kingdom with it . to conclude , the challenge we face across this House be find new , more effective way of engage people and allow they to fully participate in decision - making . I welcome this Bill as one small , but useful and effective , way in which we can achieve that . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) for introduce the Bill , and for the work that have go in to it , which I welcome , particularly as a Welsh MP for a rural constituency . think about the history of parliamentary reform , my hon . friend be a modern - day chartist woman . she be a fantastic woman in this place , and she be absolutely right that voting — the mechanism by which people exercise their electoral preference or express their sense of civic duty — be the backbone of our democracy . ensure that elector can exercise that democratic right be essential , and an important part of it be recognise that many people face barrier that prevent they from vote in person . thank to the online absent vote application service enable by change in the Elections Act 2022 , voter have the option to apply online for a postal or proxy vote in Great Britain for UK parliamentary election , police and crime commissioner election in England and Wales , and local election in England . if elector do not wish to apply online for an absent voting arrangement , the exist option to apply via a traditional paper application remain available to they . these service allow people to choose whichever route they find easy . however , as have already be point out , there be an anomaly for voter in Wales and Scotland , which limit the extent of the digital application option for absent voting arrangement . while elector live in Scotland or Wales can apply online for a postal or proxy vote for general election , they can not do so for devolve parliamentary or local election . I feel very strongly about that . in the Senedd parliamentary reform be happen and a great deal of change will come about , and I feel that there should be equality for everyone in the United Kingdom in respect of devolution . I think we both hope that this fantastic Bill be pass today and continue its parliamentary journey , but will my hon . friend join I in urge both the Scottish Government and the Welsh Senedd to do all that they can to provide additional education and accessibility so that everyone can access the voting arrangement correctly ? I welcome that intervention , especially because we be talk about many group who do not access their right to vote . I be proud of the fact that in Wales and Scotland people can vote from the age of 16 . I use to be a schoolteacher , and I know how important it be to have that democratic conversation with young people so that they understand their right . it be important for a strong message to come from both the Welsh Senedd and the Scottish Government , because their voice need to be hear , and the same apply to people who be unable to vote because of a disability . it be incumbent on our other Parliaments to proceed with what be a very big piece of work . as it stand , my constituent in Gower — a rural constituency contain many remote area — who wish to vote via post or proxy in the upcoming Senedd election in 2026 will still be require to fill out a paper application form and physically send it to be process . that be time - consume and people do not always do it . this lack of parity be unfair to elector in Wales and Scotland who should have the option of a digital route for absent voting arrangement in their devolve parliamentary or local election . it be also not good for overall democratic health . we know that some people be deter from vote if they encounter barrier in the run - up to an election or polling day . that inconsistency present a barrier to voting that would , in some case , contribute to people not vote at all . I welcome the Bill because it seek to end that disparity and give voter in Wales and Scotland equal choice in how they can apply for an absent vote in devolve and local election . with both the Senedd Cymru and Scottish Parliament election come up in May 2026 , we should be do all that we can to remove disincentivise barrier and to make the process of elector exercise their right to vote as smooth as possible . do my hon . friend agree that we should be do everything we can to encourage political participation across the UK , to maintain our reputation as one of the world ' s strong democracy ? that really be true . in the seven year I have be in this place , I have find that people sometimes shut the door in my face and say , " you ' re all the same . " there be a grow disrespect for parliamentarian , which I find hard to understand . our democracy be the backbone of the United Kingdom and of our devolved country , and I think it be really important for we to be positive and engaging and to let people know that their voice be hear in this place , whoever they vote for . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith for how she have work on the Bill . I understand that the measure within it have be discuss with Welsh and Scottish Ministers , and that be a wonderful way to make change happen . the Bill be also very carefully draft to emphasise the importance of devolution and to respect the devolved nation ' responsibility for their local and devolve parliamentary election . the manner in which she have approach that , as well as the Bill itself , firmly align with the Government ' s intention to re - set the relationship between central and local government as partner in deliver well outcome for the community that we , collectively , represent . the Government have already make welcome significant progress regard that re - set . they have also note how support the sector to modernise democratic engagement be key to that re - set . that be what the Bill do . my constituent would really welcome the choice that the change in the Bill would grant they in local and devolve election . I thank the return officer in Swansea and Gower for their hard work and for the even more hard work they will have with the upcoming Senedd reform in 2026 . my constituent welcome the Bill and I thank my hon . friend for bring it to the House . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) on bring forward this important Bill . the inconsistency that currently exist between election in England , Wales and Scotland be confusing and make no sense — either for voter or for anybody else . as Labour Members have say , we all have a duty to do everything we can to encourage participation in our democracy , particularly at a time of alienation and when trust be low . the figure share by my hon . friend about the number of people who register to vote online before the general election illustrate that point . there be clearly a demand . People want to use digital system , just as my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) say . People be use to interact with system and process in that way , so that make it very important . as a fellow Welsh MP , I have to say that people be incredulous , when I speak to they on the doorstep , at the complexity of the system in Wales . a digital option be unavailable to they to participate in such important local and national election . do my hon . friend agree that the maximum opportunity to vote in all election in Wales and Scotland , in whichever way they choose , be crucial to create equality across the UK ? I absolutely agree . this democratic deficit really need to be address . it be very important that that be do before the next Senedd and scottish election in 2026 . as other member have say , there be real public transport challenge in largely rural constituency such as mine . we also suffer a lot , would you believe , with bad weather , so have the option of postal vote and proxy vote be very important . we also have the university in Bangor and , as my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North also say , have different option for student and young people be particularly important . there be very many reason to make it easy for people to vote by proxy and by post . as I say , it be urgent . I hope all member see that and back the progression of the Bill . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) for bring the Bill forward . we hear from she and from other hon . member about the difficulty that voter in Scotland and Wales face due to the fact that , follow the passage of the Elections Act 2022 , the equivalent power be not introduce for England and Wales . I have be campaign in election since 1979 . I hugely enjoy the interaction with voter , despite be shout at occasionally . it be so important . we be link their concern for their community and their family with our role as actual or potential elect representative . the bit that gel all that together be the process of voting . the process of voting need to be make as simple , easy and accessible as possible to everybody , so that everyone have equal access . the Royal National Institute of Blind People ' s report demonstrate that only 50 % of blind and partially sight people be satisfied with their experience of voting at the last general election . do she hope , as I do , that the Bill will make the process smoother , make it easy for people to apply for absent vote , and make some much - need improvement on that figure ? I know that the RNIB have campaign for many year to improve accessibility to election for people with sight loss . I do not know whether this Bill will actually make the change that my hon . friend desire , because it bring the Scottish and Welsh system up to the standard that we have in England , and I know that the RNIB be not yet satisfied with the process . if people have choose not to have a postal vote , a lot depend on whether the polling clerk at the election centre feel confident enough to help those with sight loss to vote if they do not want to do so with a family member , neighbour or friend . I have stand as a candidate in 11 election , and I have win every one of they . I have also campaign in many more general election , council election , by - election and London Assembly election , and I have help colleague in by - election across the country . when I first start , there be no such thing as online voter registration — in fact , there be no online anything . I attend statistic class at university , and computing then involve stack and stack of card — I do not know how many member remember that . it take another 15 year , roughly , for most of we to understand what the internet be . it have only be since 2023 , I think , that one can register online for a postal or proxy vote . we can not underestimate the importance of be able to register for a postal or proxy vote with ease . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech about accessibility and the need for proxy vote . I do some research on this issue prior to today , and I discuss with a constituent the difficulty that people with autistic spectrum disorder experience when vote . they have a lot of anxiety about go into polling station and the potential complication that they face when make sure that they be able to exercise their democratic voice . do my hon . friend agree that we must do everything we can to support those with autistic spectrum disorder , to make voting as accessible as possible ? absolutely . many neurodiverse people find the process of vote difficult , and that be one example of why postal voting be so valuable to so many people . up until 2001 , one need approval from either a doctor or an employer to be able to get a postal vote . People could not just say that they would prefer , or would find it easy , to vote at home ; they have to justify that , which be easy say than do . there be huge discrepancy in whether doctor could sign off such a request , and in whether employer be prepared to say that an employee would be away and unable to vote in person on election day . we have see a huge improvement . only 2 % of voter have postal vote before the change , but the figure have grow to almost 20 % by the time of the 2010 general election . we have , over the year , make postal voting easy . the variation be quite high : 50 % of voter in Sunderland vote by post , while only 8 % of voter in Lewisham do so . the most important thing of all — and why postal vote make such a difference to engagement in our democracy — be that 80 % of people who have a postal vote use it . would we not like that kind of overall voter turnout ? that be hugely important . my hon . friend be make a good point about turnout . do she agree that although there may be multiple reason why someone might not choose to come out and vote , ease in access a ballot should never be one of they ? I absolutely agree . that be why voter in Wales and Scotland need equality of access with voter in England , and I hope that the Government will support the Bill . in 2023 , the then Government launch online voting application for postal and proxy voting . if I have read the explanatory note correctly , that be the discrepancy that the Bill be set to address . we do not knock on door only at election — of course , we can not get anybody to sign up for postal vote for the next election during the short campaign period . Most of we , and I hope all of we on the Labour Benches , be door knock week in , week out , not just for the next election — and sometimes not even for the next election — but because , as elect representative and community and party activist , we need and want to engage with our community . part of that conversation be , " I find it difficult to vote , " " I can ' t vote , " or , " I miss the last vote because of this . " that be where we ask , " well , what about a postal vote ? " do my hon . friend believe that the Bill will benefit the old voter we speak to on the doorstep , many of whom be digital native and actively use online technology ? old voter in Scotland and Wales would , I be sure , like to use technology in the same way as old voter in England . that be absolutely right . we must listen to old voter ' need . some be digitally exclude , which be why it be always a good idea to have paper copy of the form to give they , and to tell they what they need to do to get that application off . other be not digitally exclude and , like my mother , have smartphone and do more and more thing online . one thing that we have be do , as I be sure have many colleague , be have a qr code to hand , so that voter can put their phone over the QR code , which immediately open up the form . then , we say , " goodbye and thank you very much " — we obviously do not have anything to do with their completion of the form . that make it easy . the problem with handing over a form or say , " I suggest you go on the Government website , " be that , with the good will in the world , many people really do want to apply for a postal vote but life get in the way , as it do for we all . apply be not the most important thing when , say , the baby be cry , dinner be about to burn , or someone be late for work . we have find in England that the easy the technology , the more people apply for postal vote . as I have just say , if they have apply for and get that postal vote , they be more likely to use it . a lot of what I be say also apply to proxy vote . it be say early that the fact that last year ' s general election occur during the scottish school holiday mean that , in the chaos and confusion that happen in most household prepare to go on holiday , voting fall off the agenda for a lot of people who have perhaps think about apply for a postal vote but not get around to do it . do my hon . friend agree that , be another election like that to be call , the opportunity to do that chore by post might make a difference to a lot of people ? we be all aware and deeply conscious of how many scottish voter be disadvantage in the July 2024 election . as scottish summer holiday start some week early than in England , many scottish voter be disenfranchised . the Bill in itself will not change that , but like a broken record , I go back to the point that the easy we make apply for postal and proxy vote , the more people will do it , not when an election be imminent but at some point well before that . then they will not be disenfranchise . the Bill will make life a lot easy for electoral registration officer in Wales and Scotland , who have a terrible time deal with two different set of election . scottish and Welsh voter be able to apply for general election vote in the same way as english voter , but for some reason — I be happy to be correct if I be wrong — a different application form be need for the different level of election , such as the Scottish Parliament election versus the UK general election . it be more confusing than that . it be actually the same form with several different option , which explain the different scenario . I recently apply for a postal vote , because there be a by - election in my constituency next week , and it be not a straightforward process . do my hon . friend agree that that be even more confusing than have two separate form ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . it be not just confuse for the voter ; it be more difficult for the already stress - out ero . they have a difficult enough job , they often do not have enough colleague with they , and if they do not do their job absolutely perfectly , there be the potential for mistake to be make , which become challengeable . I endorse the Bill , because apart from anything else I want to make sure that every voter in every area get an equal chance to apply for and get a postal vote or a proxy vote . first , I wish to apologise to my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) for nick his point in an intervention early . in mitigation , I be sure he will agree that it be hardly likely to rank particularly highly in the list of rude interaction between people from Dunfermline and Falkirk . I declare an interest as a member of the all - party parliamentary group on fair election , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) for introduce the Bill . like many hon . member I be sure , for six month last year — all the way up to 9 . 30 pm on polling day on a remarkably damp 4 July — I be out chap on door , speak to thousand of Falkirk resident , discuss their view and seek to persuade they of the benefit that labour representation could bring to the issue they care about . I have be do that sort of thing since I be 15 , which despite what some might say about my experience elsewhere have make I a bit of a canvass veteran . I have stand in two election and win both of they — I have nine to go to match the record of my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) . fellow experienced canvasser will know that conversation on the doorstep can often stray from the alleged topic , and the question can change from why the person should vote in a particular way to how they can access their vote . that be often the case when you be the first person to chap on their door to talk to they about politic for a while , or perhaps ever . my team and I face countless question during the election about where the polling station be ; whether people need to bring their polling card ; for the first time six month ago , whether they need to take ID to the polling station ; and how they could apply for a postal or proxy vote , especially in Scotland because it be during the start of the scottish summer holiday , as colleague have mention . I may swear by my power of persuasion on the doorstep , but I have no doubt that in some of the election I have participate in , the time it take to apply for a postal or proxy vote have deter some people , potentially even those who I think to be guarantee voter for Stainbank or alternative labour representative in Falkirk . the Bill would provide easy access by give power to implement the same additional online registration option that be open to Scottish and Welsh voter in the 2024 election for local and devolved election , as in England . look at the substance and the context of the Bill , I be in some confusion about why legislative consent be not pass over as part of the Elections Act 2022 . I would definitely be interested if anyone can provide some clarity on that . currently , if someone want to do it in a oner and register for a postal and proxy vote for all election for which they could cast a ballot in Scotland or Wales , they would have to do so on a paper application , despite the online option be available for a general election . that show the contradiction that the Bill seek to solve . I hope we all agree that we should be make the right to vote in our election as easy as possible , and we should recognise that the responsibility sit with the devolved government for devolved and local election . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith on seek to correct that with the urgency that it warrant before the 2026 Scottish and Welsh election , and the 2027 scottish local election . as a former councillor , like many colleague who have speak today , I remain concerned that turnout in local election in Falkirk and across Scotland have be remarkably poor . it be 44 . 8 % in 2022 across Scotland , down 2 . 1 % from the previous election and nearly 10 % from the first time we use the single transferable vote system in scottish local election in 2007 . as I mention in an intervention , there be many reason cite by those on the doorstep for choose not to vote in election . difficulty access a ballot paper should never be one of those . it be a well - know fact that those who register for a postal ballot be far more likely to turn out . while research my speech I find that that be true in my seat . accord to the Falkirk Valuation Joint Board , 81 % of those register for a postal vote in Falkirk in the 2024 election cast a ballot . standardise the process for postal and proxy vote in UK , scottish and local election will ease application . importantly , the consistency that that will provide the electorate will give people confidence to register and use their vote time and again , especially first - time voter in the recent 2024 election who may be under the misapprehension that they have already competently register for a postal and proxy vote for every election , include devolve and local election . I be a mum to not one but two 16 - year - old , who I be pleased to say be newly eligible to vote in both the local and Senedd election in Wales . because of that , I know at first hand how all - encompass exam period be . election often occur at these time . do my hon . friend agree that allow young people to apply for a postal or proxy vote online — a way that will be most familiar to most of they — be important to get around that issue ? I wholeheartedly agree . I be a fantastic example , as I be sit my high english exam the first time I vote as a 16 - year - old in 2016 in Scotland . give the exam stress and other consideration in young people ' s life and that online be the presumptive option to register for everything , it should be available to they . it will be essential in drive up turnout . we should extend that to UK election as well , for the benefit of consistency . the impression from the Electoral Commission report on voting system and trust in voting be that , although trust remain high in the integrity of the electoral process in the UK , an increase proportion of the electorate be concerned that our election be not well run . consistency , especially avoid the appearance of arbitrary difference in the administration of election , be an important feature to rebuild that trust . election in the devolved nation of the United Kingdom can often be unduly different : for example , 16 and 17 - year - old can vote in Scotland for their MSP , but not for their MP in a general election . member may be able to guess my age from this : I be permit to vote for my MSP in the 2016 Scottish parliamentary election , but in the 2017 general election the follow year I be unable to cast a ballot for my MP . with the passage of the Bill , I hope to see the option available to those in England extend to Scotland and Wales . vote at 16 be an area for another day , and I hope that this Parliament will choose to converge with Wales and Scotland on that . this inconsistency in voter eligibility in our electoral system in Scotland lead to concern that there would be a depression in turnout among 16 and 17 - year - old in the 2016 scottish parliamentary election . that fear be ingeniously and partially cure by an examiner at the Scottish Qualifications Authority who , as part of a high english exam schedule on the exact same day as the election , include an article by Julia Hartley - Brewer with a headline state that let 16 - year - old vote would be a disaster . to my delight , my pal be indignantly flock to the Dobbie Hall polling station to exercise their democratic right before discuss how well we have do in the exam that day . I doubt that anybody be forthcoming with an article say that let people register for a postal or proxy vote online would be a disaster . this be an inconsistency that we should seek to fix now . access to proxy and postal voting be not a theoretical concern . when the former Prime Minister call the election in the early day of the scottish summer holiday , I and my team have to field countless question about which postal and proxy voting application be available , and the turnout in particular scottish seat reflect that . the Electoral Commission report find that in Scotland , confusion , late postal ballot arrival and the timing of the election disproportionately impact turnout . that be due to direct interaction with confusing system — people go away on their holiday be unable to get a postal or proxy vote , or do not know how to do that — and the medium commentary around it . standardise the way we do this across the United Kingdom and across the various election would help remarkably . this be an arbitrary difference that we should seek to resolve . in conclusion , the Bill would allow online registration for postal and proxy voter in Scottish , Welsh and local election , which simply would make life easy for the electorate , give folk another option and hopefully drive more people to the poll , whichever way they choose to vote in 2026 , 2027 and beyond . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) for bring forward this wonderful Bill . it be important to say that this Bill be fundamentally about make it easy to vote in Scotland and Wales . it would improve the situation for resident in those area by allow they to vote by post and proxy in a way that they would not necessarily be able to at the moment . I grow up in south Wales , so this issue be close to my heart . I be consistently impressed when I be grow up by the work of the Electoral Commission , or as it would rightly be know in Wales , Y Comisiwn Etholiadol . I must declare that I have a special closeness to the Electoral Commission , because during the noughtie my mother be the leader of the Wales office , so the fact that I have great respect for its work be maybe a little close to home . in the 2000 , the commission have a great advert on television , and it stick with I . maybe I be pay a little more attention to advert put out by the Electoral Commission than many of my teenage colleague at the time , but this wonderful advert have a series of vignette of cartoon character , with two guy go about their daily life and talk about various issue they be come up against . one of the guy be say , " you should make sure you vote , man , " and the other one keep say , " I don ' t do politic , I . " they would go into , say , a supermarket , and the guy who say he doesn ' t do politics say , " the price of milk ' s too high . " the next scene be in a pub , and he say , " the price of beer be too high . " the whole message of this advert be that politics be in everything . it be really important that we , as politician , drive that message home always . we should be do everything in our power to expand and improve access to politic . that be why the Bill be really important . those advert — and there be many put out by the Electoral Commission at the time — be focus on make sure that people have access to voting and be go out and vote . I be not so lucky as to get the vote at 16 in Wales — I be too old for that — but when I get the opportunity to vote for the first time age 19 , I remember get multiple phone call from my mum shortly before say , " you make darn sure you sign up for a postal vote in advance , " because I be at university and have to make sure I be sign up . I be a big proponent of make sure that young people have access to voting and that we do everything we can to encourage they to vote . we should support all young people to vote more easily , and the measure in the Bill be really important in that work . we need to be remove the barrier . although my mum do not work for the Electoral Commission , she be a polling counter both at polling station during the day and at the count , include for the very first Scottish Parliament election ; I remember vividly pick she up from the count at about 5 o ' clock in the morning , have stay up all night to watch it . do my hon . friend agree that if we be to improve the smooth running of election in this country , we must support more people to participate in those vital role , which involve very long shift at polling station follow by the count , which can go on much long ? anything we can do to support they would be much appreciated . of course , I completely agree with everything my hon . friend just say . I be sure that many member — probably all right hon . and hon . member — agree that the polling clerk and all the attendant on election day be a vital part of our democracy , and they have our thank for their work , year in , year out , in all election . as I be say , I be a great fan of do everything we can as a Government and as Parliament to improve access to election and to remove barrier . digital measure of the sort in the Bill be a really important part of that . we have hear member on both side of the House talk about the importance of break down the barrier in the way of those who be digitally illiterate and give everyone access to a way of sign up for postal and proxy vote online . I also advocate for more education in school . I be in the fortunate position of be the neighbouring mp , so you may well be familiar with the school I mention , which be just down the road from your constituency . will you commend Langley Mill academy for its great work to raise awareness among young people of british value and our voting system , and sadly for put a photo of I on the overhead projector when I visit ? they ask I lot of insightful question , which really show that they be learn about our democracy . order . I remind the hon . member that the word " you " and " your " refer to I , and I be not the person she intervene on . I thank my neighbour and dear friend , my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) . I certainly agree with she and commend the school in Langley Mill . I be her predecessor as the labour candidate in Amber Valley in 2019 , and I know the fantastic work the school be do . I be a great proponent of visit school . I go to two last week : ladywood primary school in Kirk Hallam , and Saint John Houghton Catholic voluntary academy , which I know my hon . Friend attend as a pupil many year ago . I be a fan of school visit , and as a train former teacher , I find it one of the most enjoyable part of my job . I know that many right hon . and hon . member be similarly strong advocate . I be talk about the importance of well education in school , break down the barrier to opportunity and ensure that all our pupil get access to the knowledge they require to engage fully in our political system . I remember the few short hour when I be a pupil at Llanishen high school in north Cardiff when the headteacher , Mr Robert Smyth , come in and teach my class about politic . he be give just four or six hour over the five year of my time in state education . it be disappointing that we have such a small amount of politic education available to pupil in state school . I have long be a great advocate of expand the time give to that . it be one of the thing I greatly enjoy do as a Member of Parliament — join as many school as possible to impart to pupil the knowledge that I have gain in this place and through my experience . do my hon . friend agree that education in school be absolutely central to make sure that Chambers across the country start to look like the community they represent and to achieve 50 : 50 ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention and , of course , I completely agree with everything she say . I firmly believe that education , skill development and all the aspect we have just be discuss should be core to all of our policy . indeed , my previous role prior to come to this place be as an educator at the University of Nottingham , where I teach degree - level apprenticeship in electromechanical engineering . I be a great advocate of the apprenticeship system , and I be very pleased by the Government ' s commentary over the past few month about expand skill provision across the board . as I have say repeatedly throughout this speech , it be really important that we advocate for these point as much as possible . I be sure that colleague across the House will be au fait with the comment we often receive on the doorstep . like many colleague , I will be out knock door tomorrow morning and tomorrow afternoon , and very often people say how difficult they find it to access our political system . many area such as mine have multiple tier of government : council , local government , mayor and mps . we be talk about devolution at the moment and maybe reorganise some of those system , and I think there be an opportunity to simplify they . the hon . gentleman talk about simplify system . my father apply for a postal vote because he be take advantage of the early scottish holiday and be go to be away on 4 July . when he try to access a postal vote to vote for I , he find that the council could not recognise he , yet as he point out , it have be able to collect his council tax for some year . do the hon . Gentleman recognise that if we be go to increase the number of postal and proxy vote , we must also have well system on the other side to short - circuit those problem ? since the vote be private , who know how the hon . Gentleman ' s father actually vote ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention , and I agree . it be important that when these difficult scenario arise , we be able to account for they and have system in place to deal with they . to conclude , we have have a really interesting discussion today . the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith be very valuable and will allow a whole group of extra people to access our electoral system , which be complex . the Bill will allow we to simplify it , homogenise system between England , Wales and Scotland , and generally improve thing for voter across the country . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) for bring this valuable debate and Bill before the House today . as have be make clear by many speaker , for as long as we have know it , there have be a weird hotchpotch of different regulation concern different election in the UK . we have different voting system for different election ; we have parliamentary boundary that take little account of the boundary for local election ; and we have age difference for different election in different part of the country , with vote at 16 in some part of the country for some election . we have voter ID regulation . we have the single transferable vote , top - up system and first past the post . that whole hotchpotch of different regulation need to be simplify and standardise . the stramash that my hon . friend refer to around electoral system be add to in Scotland , where initially the Scottish Parliament have a four - year term . that be extend — temporarily at first — to a five - year term to take account of the fix - term Parliaments Act 2011 that be enact in this place . that have not yet be mend ; it now seem to have become a five - year term , which cause additional confusion that I be not sure have be properly and adequately explain to the scottish people . do my hon . friend agree that that add a further complication to the problem he be describe ? I agree wholeheartedly with my hon . friend — the amount of complication and complexity in the voting system in this country need address . this Bill will address just one of those complexity , but I fully agree with what he have say . my hon . friend the Member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) mention that we could perhaps guess his age from the election he have take part in . in a similar vein , perhaps member can guess my age when I say that the first national election I vote in be the landslide labour victory of 1997 . at the time , I be live in the marginal constituency of Knowsley South — it be one of the safe seat in the country . I be sure it be not the vote of my 20 - year - old self that tip the balance in that election , but none the less I be very proud on that May morning to go down to the community centre around the corner from my house , with my voting card in hand , and cast my vote for the first time in a national election for my MP . I be still very proud that at every election , I cast my vote in person , but just because I be a hopeless old romantic who want to go down to the polling station , it do not mean that we must ensure that everybody do that . on the contrary , we need to make voting as easy and engaging as possible , so that the majority of people can engage with the process . for those people who can not vote on the day , we need to ensure that proxy and postal voting , and absent voting more generally , be as easy as it can be . I will talk briefly about an issue in my constituency and across my wide combine authority area . over the last couple of year , since voter ID have become mandatory , there have be a localise concern . the law state that an old person ' s bus pass be an acceptable form of ID , but the common bus pass in my part of the world be the Merseytravel over - 60 bus pass , which the law do not allow to be use as voter ID . my council , and neighbouring council across the local authority and combine authority area , have to write to every single Merseytravel over - 60 bus pass holder in the borough to tell they that their bus pass be not valid to vote with , contrary to what they have be lead to expect and believe by the national press in its reporting on the law change . do my hon . friend agree that the move to ensure that veteran ' pass could be use as voter ID , which be one of the first thing that this Labour Government do , be a welcome change ? I again agree wholeheartedly . the omission of veteran ' pass from the previous legislation , which mean that they could not be use , be shameful . we have all talk about the complexity , but the cherry on top of the 57 variety of voting system that we have all get use to over the year be the old European Parliament election be hold under the d ' Hondt system . I be mindful of time , so I will not go into detail on that — I be sure that even Mr d ' Hondt could not come up with a well method of filibuster than do so . much to my dismay , this Bill be not intend to correct every single peculiarity of the voting system , but it be intend to correct one . the Elections Act 2022 make it easy to apply online for absent voter arrangement , but it include Scotland and Wales only when it come to UK parliamentary election . for some reason , Wales be include when it come to police and crime commissioner election , but Scotland be not . unwittingly , the weird hotchpotch of system be make bad , rather than well . People in Scotland and Wales who think that they have register for a postal or proxy vote find out when it be too late that they have register for one set of election but not another . unwittingly , they be be disenfranchise , due to the nonsensical bureaucratic change that have be bring in . even council officer , as have be make clear , do not want this change ; it heap far administrative and cost burden on electoral officer and local authority . nobody want it to happen , yet almost by accident , the complexity be increase . there need to be a raft of change . the remit of the various boundary commission need revisit , and the voting system need update to ensure stability and good governance . in July last year , we achieve stability and good governance almost by accident , despite the voting system . voting need to be make more accessible , and engagement with the democratic process need to be make easy . in conclusion , there be a huge patchwork quilt of rule that make sense to almost nobody . the Bill seek to rectify one small aspect of the increasingly daft situation . I hope it be allow to make progress . I congratulate and thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) for bring forward the Bill , and for work constructively with parliamentarian in other place . I be not sure what I can add to this full , thorough , enjoyable and important debate , but I will cover two point : the inconsistency in current arrangement , and the effect on those most likely to need a proxy vote . as my hon . friend the Member for Southport ( Patrick Hurley ) say , many of we in this place will fondly remember the first time we go to vote . for I , as for my hon . friend , it be at the 1997 general election that I first feel the buzz of put an x in the box and exercise my democratic right . however , for an increase number of our fellow citizen , that be not what democracy mean to they . as we have hear , participation in democracy be fall around the UK . turnout at local election be consistently disappointing low , whether they be part of the cycle of regular election or by - election . there be much to be do to correct that trend , re - enthuse people about our democracy and rebuild the bond of trust that have be test over the past few year , and a vital part of our strategy must be around great consistency and access to voting . it be bizarre to I , and , I assume , many hon . member in the Chamber today , that a simple and quick way of register online a request for a proxy vote be not available at every election . as my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith say , the difference between general election registration and devolve or local election registration be unnecessary and inconvenient . it cause huge confusion among voter and , I assume , elect member too ; we rush to find out the rule for the previous election whenever we be present with question on the doorstep . one of the great strength of our democracy be the speed and expertise with which our election be arrange . however , real life be rarely so easy to plan . proxy voting be an important and flexible arrangement that enable hundred of thousand of citizen to exercise their right to vote . I add my thank to the return officer , electoral team and police , who be essential to safeguard the democratic process in our community . the process of register a proxy vote ought to be consistent for voter , so that register for a proxy vote in the July 2024 general election be no different from register for one in the Holyrood election in May 2026 or the scottish local election in May 2027 . if we be keen to increase democratic participation , as I believe all hon . member present be , we must ensure consistent and comprehensive registration process . we value our election , but when we fail to digitise or make registration for proxy vote more accessible , we create unnecessary difference that confuse voter and act as a barrier to participation . to put it simply , the law in Scotland for one election should match the law in Scotland for all election . the people who rely on proxy voting the most be young people , student and those with disability . the young be part of a digital generation whose university application and rental contract be digital , but they can not arrange a proxy vote for a local or devolve election digitally . however , young people increasingly live far from home in temporary accommodation for study before return to their family home . however , young people increasingly live far from home in temporary accommodation for study before return to their family home . student from my constituency who be temporarily live away and who register online for a proxy or postal vote in the general election can not do the same for the upcoming scottish election . I want to add my full support for my hon . friend , and I thank everyone , certainly on the Government Benches and hopefully in the opposition too , for their support in make it easy for everyone to access our democratic process . I rise to express my full support for the Bill , which would uphold our democratic principle by ensure that absent voting be more accessible , consistent and secure across Scotland and Wales , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) for introduce it . we debate the sunshine Bill early , and as we be go through all the different weather type , I be start to think we should maybe name this one the no sunshine Bill for all type of election . democracy flourish when it be inclusive , when it reach out to every citizen and when it remove unnecessary barrier to participation . the Bill seek to strengthen our democracy by ensure that those unable to attend polling station in person be still able to make their voice hear . as a former leader of a district council that oversaw local and national election , I be acutely aware of the vital role that local government play in serve our community and contribute to their wellbeing . it be imperative , therefore , that we safeguard and strengthen the legitimacy of this crucial tier of governance by promote great accessibility and encourage broad participation in local election . the cornerstone of the Bill lie in recognise that no eligible voter should be exclude from participate in our democratic process due to personal circumstance beyond their control . Digital tool be essential to that , so I look forward to hear from the Minister about the option . our electoral system must evolve to meet the demand of a change world . the Bill build on exist provision for absent voting and bring they in line with modern expectation of accessibility and efficiency . although the Bill make voting more accessible , it also ensure that our election remain secure , and that public confidence in the democratic process be uphold . this House must always strike a balance between empower voter and safeguard the legitimacy of our electoral outcome . I would welcome an update from the Minister on the anticipated cost of the change . the Bill be also a reminder of the strength and cohesion of our Union . while respect the devolved responsibility of the Scottish Parliament and the Senedd , it ensure that the principle of democracy be uphold uniformly . the Bill be timely and necessary , and it reflect the value we hold dear as a nation , such as belief in the right of every citizen to participate in the democratic process , and the importance of ensure that that process remain accessible , secure and fair . I encourage all member to support the Bill . together , we can demonstrate our commitment to a modern , inclusive and resilient democracy that work for all . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) on secure the Bill and bring it to the House . the Bill represent an important step forward in make vote more accessible and efficient for all . the focus of the Bill be clear : to streamline and modernise the process of register for absent voting , whether by postal vote or proxy , particularly for election hold in Scotland and Wales . I join hon . member in pay tribute to all electoral staff across the whole United Kingdom . we know that , as elect politician and candidate , we put they through stress when we phone they to say , " this person hasn ' t register . can I get they down ? " or " where ' s this polling station ? " . they go through a lot , and we thank they for what they do . we welcome the Bill . the change it would make be originally propose under the last Conservative Government , but as hon . member will know , the Welsh and Scottish Governments decline to provide the necessary legislative consent motion when the Elections Bill 2022 pass through the UK Parliament in 2022 . that mean that all the strengthen rule on postal and proxy voting could be apply only to reserve election . under the current arrangement , elector must submit paper form to apply for or to modify absent vote . the Bill seek to align that process for devolved election with reform introduce in the Elections Act 2022 for reserved election . by enable the use of the UK digital service for online application , it will simplify and modernise the system , ensure great accessibility and efficiency for voter . I appreciate that , as a consequence of devolution , electoral law will diverge due to the policy choice of the different government and legislature , but we should avoid divergence for divergence ' s sake . since some election will remain reserved , such as those to the UK Parliament , it would make sense to facilitate the smooth administration of election by align process for electoral administrator and political party as much as be practicable . otherwise , it just create more work for everyone and confuse voter , as have be outline by Government Members . the provision of the Bill will allow Scottish and Welsh Ministers to implement the measure ahead of the next devolve election in 2026 . the ultimate goal be to encourage participation in the democratic process while safeguard the integrity of our electoral system , and we must recognise the difference in turnout between general election and election for devolved government . in Wales , turnout for Senedd election have historically lag behind general election , as evidence by the turnout rate of 46 . 6 % in 2021 , compare with 56 % in 2024 . in Scotland , turnout for the Scottish Parliament election be comparatively high , but there remain room for improvement . make voting easy and more accessible be one way to address that disparity . it be important that online application do not open the door to electoral fraud , as the whole point of the Elections Act 2022 be to toughen the rule and practice for electoral integrity . that be why it be essential — we will scrutinise this in Committee — that there be strict online verification check for online absent vote application for devolved election , and that those be the same check as for hard - copy application . fraudster will just divert their malpractice if one venue be more lax . electronic application be more vulnerable to external interference , as a hostile actor can be literally anywhere in the world . if the Bill go into Committee , I would like to see a requirement in primary legislation for the necessary check already operational in reserve election to be require in secondary legislation . that would help to ensure consistency across all election , as many member have outline that they want . the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government have be consult on legislative reform order to implement the same provision . will Ministers indicate how that interact with the propose passage of the Bill ? for example , do Ministers intend to opt for a legislative reform order if the Bill do not have sufficient parliamentary time ? it be worth note that the electoral body , include the Electoral Commission , support these change . the commission highlight the need for clarity and preparation to ensure that these provision be in place by October 2025 , give electoral officer ample time to adapt , and give voter sufficient awareness , before the 2026 election . in conclusion , the Absent Voting ( election in Scotland and Wales ) Bill be a pragmatic and necessary step towards improve voter access and protect the integrity of our electoral process , by bring absent voting practice in devolved election in line with the rest of the UK . it will modernise and future - proof our democracy while empower citizen in Scotland and Wales to participate more easily in election . I once again congratulate the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) on the spirit with which she have bring forward this legislation : to make voting and access to voting easy for people while ensure that voting remain secure . I hope that her Front - Bench colleague take that same stance and change their mind on water down voter ID , which will have the opposite effect from the aim and aspiration of this Bill . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) on her Bill successfully reach second reading . I thank election official and express my gratitude for all the work they do at the general election and in other election . the Bill provide the legal framework for application to vote by post or proxy in devolve election in Scotland and Wales to be make online through the service already in place for UK parliamentary election and local election . it will also deliver change to align application procedure for different type of election , which will reduce the risk of confusion among elector about which arrangement they have in place for different election , as have be say . by enable access to those online service , the Bill will make the life of thousand of elector easy and encourage participation in our democracy . in short , my hon . friend ' s Bill address a difference that , if not resolve , would see elector in Scotland and Wales have less choice than those in England when it come to electoral service . the Government wholeheartedly support the aim of remove that divergence . I be delighted that we have have such a great turnout of member for the debate . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) , for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , for Southport ( Patrick Hurley ) , for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) , for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , for Bangor Aberconwy ( Claire Hughes ) , for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) , for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) and for Rushcliffe ( James Naish ) for their contribution . I thank the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) , for his contribution . it be extremely beneficial and helpful that there be agreement on the need to do this , and I be grateful for that cross - party support . I will not have the opportunity to respond to all the point in the debate . if I do not cover they all in the short time I have , I will be happy to follow up in writing . we be commit to support return officer in ensure access to participation , particularly of those with disability and old voter , as mention by my hon . friend . we continue to work closely with organisation that support disabled individual to participate in our democratic process . on the point make about the complexity of the electoral system , we will work closely across the sector to gather feedback , analysis and idea . a number of hon . member raise the importance of increase engagement in the political process and increase participation , include the voting age and young voter . various factor can impact voter turnout level at election , as be highlight in the Electoral Commission ' s report last year in the general election . as set out in our manifesto , the Government be commit to strengthen our democracy and widen participation in our election . we will ensure that every legitimate voter have the opportunity to vote and be encourage to exercise their right to vote , and we be make good progress on several area to deliver those commitment . work be also under way on extend the franchise for all UK election to 16 and 17 - year - old , and legislation for that will be introduce in due course , strengthen our democracy and empower young people to participate in it . we firmly believe in build a strong foundation for democratic participation among young people , and we will work closely with stakeholder to ensure that it be implement appropriately . the Bill put citizen ' need at its heart and support the use of technology in deliver service . ensure that people ' s voice can be hear and encourage participation be vital to our democracy . I know that colleague in the Scottish and Welsh government share the same objective . I be therefore delighted that they have choose to take advantage of this innovation in their election . my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith articulate the benefit to elector of bring Scottish and Welsh election into the scope of the digital service , and I do not intend to repeat they . instead , it may be helpful to provide some context by give member a brief overview of the history of the online absent vote application service and outline how this Government will support the implementation of the legislation . before the launch of the digital service , any elector who wish to vote by post or proxy would have to request a form by post — as have be point out — or print out a form , complete it and return it to their local electoral registration office . that could be a cumbersome and difficult process , and some elector may have have to rely on other to help they with it . the online postal vote and proxy vote allocation service , launch on 31 October 2023 , result from a thorough design and testing process involve 3 , 000 citizen across the UK . they have be use to great effect by more than 2 million citizen , both at the local election in May 2024 and at the most recent general election . the Bill provide the legal framework for application for devolved election in Scotland and Wales to be receive through the UK online service , along with some change to align application procedure , which my hon . friend have describe . make that legal framework a reality will require further regulation to be design and deliver by the Scottish and Welsh Governments , with whom the responsibility for devolved poll lie . the Government , have have the experience of deliver these change for reserved election , stand ready to provide any advice and support that may be require , and will work closely with the devolved government in facilitate the digital change . I assure the House that any change require to the digital service will need to meet the same robust standard require of all gov . uk service . let I turn to some of the point that member have make . we acknowledge that the Electoral Commission ' s finding , set out in its report publish last November , identify some problem with aspect of the system for vote by post . in a minority of case , elector be unable to return their postal ballot pack in time for the 2024 general election , which be a particular problem for overseas elector . we be carefully consider the commission ' s finding and recommendation , and we will respond to its report on the 2024 election in the come week . however , it be important to note that the Electoral Commission also find that the majority of people who vote by post be satisfied with the method , and overall postal voter turnout remain high , at 80 % . I be confident that the introduction of online absent vote application for devolved poll would have benefit for administrator in Scotland and Wales rather than have any negative impact . discussion have be hold with the Scottish and Welsh Governments about the cost associate with their join the online absent vote application service . as the work involve in the extension of the service be be do at their request , it be appropriate for they to cover the cost of any further work that need to be complete to achieve alignment . both government have agree to cover the cost of implement the service for their devolved election . because much of the work involve in design the service have already be complete , the cost associate with their adoption by Scotland and Wales be likely to be low than the initial cost incur before the launch in October 2023 . I hope that , give the time , I can respond in write to the point make by the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith for her brilliant work on the Bill . I look forward to take this work forward with she in Committee , and I hope that she be pleased with the outcome today . with the leave of the House , I thank all right hon . and hon . member who contribute to the debate , include the many , many intervention . in particular , I thank my hon . friend the Members for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) , for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) and for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) . to answer the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) and for Southport ( Patrick Hurley ) , I understand that legislative consent be seek during the passage of the Elections Act 2022 by the UK Government to enable online service to be use for devolve Scottish and Welsh election , but it be not grant by either devolve legislature at that time . through the Bill , we can help Scottish and Welsh voter to apply online for absent vote in all election for which they be eligible . if the Bill pass swiftly , they will be able to use those benefit in time for the May 2026 Scottish Parliament and Welsh Senedd election . the Bill will make it easy to participate in our democracy . I believe that the more elector who be able to exercise their democratic right , the strong our country will be . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Fireworks Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . it be a pleasure to bring the Bill to the House . we all know that our constituent , whether we live in a town , city or village , be feed up with nuisance loud firework . this be no long something that just happen once or twice a year ; it plague our constituent ' night almost every night , particularly in place like Luton North . I want to thank the co - sponsor of the Bill , my hon . friend the Members for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) and for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) , and another big supporter of the Bill , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) . we have have wide support for the Bill , because we know the impact this issue have on people ' s life . I have hear about this issue consistently from hundred of constituent across Luton North over the past five year . to put it into context , it do not just affect people with pet or the elderly . I be at Parklea primary school last week and speak to the student . every single one of they say that they have be keep up by firework , so it be have a detrimental impact not just on our environment or mental health , but on education . group across Luton North and the country report that last year be possibly the bad for firework in term of loudness , frequency and antisocial use . in some community , they be use almost as a weapon . what be the problem ? under current law , any adult be able to purchase firework that can make noise of up to 120 decibel . I be loud , but that be as loud as a rock concert , and any member of the public can go ahead and buy something that loud . my hon . friend be make a wonderful start to her speech . I congratulate she on a second bite of the cherry , as this be her second time with this private Member ' s Bill . she talk about education and loudness . do she agree that there be a particularly bad and detrimental impact on those suffering from neurodiverse condition ? absolutely . I have parent with child with special educational need . it be particularly distress in the middle of the night for non - verbal autistic child and young people , and calm down love one be really difficult . they say that the sporadic nature of the firework cause distress : they can not plan in advance , and can not prepare young and neurodiverse people for a barrage of noise . I congratulate the hon . Lady on bring forward this important piece of legislation . she talk about how the uncontrolled use of firework be very distressing , and cause distress and injury to people . as a veterinary surgeon , I have see at first hand the impact on animal both large and small : cower pet , pet that go missing , and farm animal livestock or horse that bolt and cause themselves horrific injury . do she agree that we need more regulation and control , so that people can protect themselves and animal ? I wholeheartedly agree with the hon . member , who have extensive experience as a vet . indeed , he support the previous iteration of the Bill , for exactly the same reason that he have outline . the Kennel Club have report an 81 % increase in the number of dog go missing when firework be use , and it change their behaviour . some of the firework lobby have say that we need to train our pet well . no animal be well train than a guide dog , but guide dog user have tell I that firework affect they so much that they can not go outside when firework be go off . as have be allude to , this Bill represent a second bite of the cherry . we know that enforcement be so difficult , because the police have have their number cut to the bone and be limit in their power . that be why this Bill focus on licensing and sale alone . like everyone else , I congratulate my hon . friend on put forward the Bill . be she surprised to hear that this be one of the big issue that I come across in surgery and email ? over 750 people have contact I about it since the election . she have speak about the impact of firework on animal , child and people with neurodiverse condition . I have be contact by a number of veteran and other who be often traumatise or wake up by firework . on that basis , do she agree that her Bill be absolutely necessary at this stage ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . Fireworks really affect veteran , and people with ptsd and mental health issue , which be why I be proud that this Bill have be support by Combat Stress and help for Heroes , and by the RSPCA , the Dogs Trust , Redwings and the Kennel Club . there could not be a more diverse group of organisation and charity , and they be all say that it be now time to limit the level of the loud firework . it be absolutely clear that eventually there will be action in this area , and my hon . friend will take great credit for that when it happen . in recent week , I have speak to a police officer in my constituency who be injure by a firework last year , and I have be introduce to a man whose mother be kill when one be put through her letterbox . more recently , a senior police officer in my constituency ask the Government to take action to control the import and sale of firework . do my hon . friend agree that it be very clear that action be need , and that the Government should ask themselves whether they want to be proactive or end up react to event ? my hon . friend highlight perfectly the seriousness of this matter . when explosive such as f3 firework get into the wrong hand and be use for criminal end , it have horrendous , life - change and sometimes life - take consequence . that be why I want to see an end to the perverse loophole that allow unlicensed seller to sell firework to member of the public during certain period of the year , such as Diwali and new year ' s eve . rise — I will make a little progress . at the time when we want firework the most , unlicensed pop - up shop appear . they sell explosive that should be handle by licensed seller , and that should only be sell to member of the public at the low and safe level . do my hon . friend agree with my constituent Hayley from Adel , who contact I before the election to say that the balance have now get completely out of kilter ? we have all hear about the devastating impact of firework on wildlife and the tragic case of Roxie at Edinburgh zoo , and about the social impact — for example , on neurodiverse people . we now have the ability to manage the use of firework through restriction , or by bring down the decibel level , in order to provide a more effective balance for our community . I wholeheartedly agree . there be some incredibly cool alternative to loud firework , and the general public really like they . a YouGov survey recently say that drone be more popular than firework in the UK , and we have see some fantastic drone display . there be also low - noise firework , but the general public still do not know quite what they be buy at the moment . I would hazard a guess that not many people would know — until they become as nerdy as I about firework — the difference between an f2 and an f3 firework . we need to enable , encourage and educate responsible member of the public on what they be buy and on the alternative . there be a challenge there for the firework lobby , which need to diversify . there be a hunger among the public and consumer for quieter firework and increase use of technology such as drone . we need to see change now , because the public be behind we — the Deputy Speaker interrupt the business ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 25 April . business without Debate Pension ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 24 January . hunt trophy ( Import Prohibition ) BilL Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 13 June . Strategic Litigation against Public Participation BilL Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 4 July . Chalk Streams ( Protection ) BilL Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . Social Media ( access to Accounts ) BilL Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 24 January . British Broadcasting Corporation ( Privatisation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 24 January . Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 24 January . animal in Medical Research ( Prohibition ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . treatment of Terminal Illness Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . unauthorised Entry to Football Matches Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 24 January . sale of Tickets ( Sporting and Cultural Events ) BilL Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 4 July . Vaccine Damage Payments Act ( Review ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 24 January . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 24 January . Terminal Illness ( Relief of Pain ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 24 January . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 24 January . marriage ( prohibit Degrees of Relationship ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 24 January . list Investment Companies ( Classification etc ) Bill [ Lords ] Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . Petition - Roughton Post Office local Liberal Democrat councillor and I have speak to hundred of people in Roughton and the surround village who be furious about the prospect of lose post office service in their area . for the old population in North Norfolk , they be a vital lifeline not just for post but for banking , cash access and more . I present this petition in the hope that our collective pressure on the Post Office will secure a well future for these important service in those rural village . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with the Post Office to review the closure of Roughton Post Office , seek alternative arrangement to protect the existence of a Post Office in Roughton , and ensure that there be reliable and appropriate access to Post Office service within Roughton . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of the resident of the village of Roughton in North Norfolk , declare that Post Office service in the village must be protect as they be a vital lifeline for many resident . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with the Post Office to review the closure of Roughton Post Office , seek alternative arrangement to protect the existence of a Post Office in Roughton , and ensure that there be reliable and appropriate access to Post Office service within Roughton . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003034 ] Green Belt : Basildon and Billericay Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) I be delighted to have secure this debate after enter the ballot many time . the origin of the green belt go back certainly to the start of the last century , but perhaps even far , because in 1580 Elizabeth I try to impose a block on build within three mile of the City of London , in order to prevent the spread of plague . today , I will talk a little about the Green Belt ( London and Home Counties ) Act 1938 , the Town and Country Planning Act 1947 , and a large area of land now know as the green belt . almost two third of undeveloped land in the Basildon borough be green belt , cover some 6 , 590 hectare . why this debate today ? Basildon council have put forward a new local plan , with a consultation that close just a few day ago , for 27 , 000 home right across the borough — the majority of which be in my constituency — cover a huge quantity of that green belt . there be 25 % more home this year on the green belt , because this Labour Government cut the need for housing in London by 17 , 000 property a year and increase it in the home county by 18 , 000 property a year . all those extra property will be head to the green belt in constituency such as mine across Essex and the south of England . I congratulate my right hon . friend and fellow Essex MP on secure this important debate . his constituency , like mine , have precious green belt that be so important to the environment , biodiversity and our physical and mental health . I acknowledge the need for housing , but do he share my concern about this Labour Government ' s central top - down target be impose on community against their wish and , equally , their plan to reclassify some of the green belt as grey belt , thereby put our precious green belt under immense pressure and danger ? I certainly agree , and I be about to move on to that point . none of we on the Opposition Benches be against more housing , but often that housing do not come about because of local need in our constituency . this be about a Government shy away from difficult conversation about densification in our city , a mayor who have consistently fail to deliver on his own housing target , and a failure to redevelop crucial brownfield land in the centre and on the edge of our major city . my hon . friend ' s point about the grey belt be particularly important at the moment , because the council be start to redesignate large area of my constituency . just a few year ago , those area be grade 1 or grade 2 agricultural land . now , they be be designate as grey belt , despite never have have any building on they . I be concerned about what this insidious grey belt phrasing could mean for development right across the country . the Government will ask where the housing should go . London be a third less dense than Paris . it seem mad that we be build on virgin greenfield site rather than densifye our city , especially at a time when constituent in Essex and across the country be have to cross - subsidise the Mayor of London for his transport . they do not get access to it , but they have to pay for it . if we have great density in our city , some of those transport route would be able to fund themselves . do my right hon . friend agree not only that the Mayor of London have be give subsidy for Transport for London and have wonderful transport infrastructure link , but that he have the devolve power for housing and have not meet his housing target consistently ? he have be reward with a reduction in housing target , which have spill over to the home county . my hon . friend be right to make that point . the Mayor of London be be reward for failure , just as he be with his knighthood not that long ago . my constituent , many of whom grow up in the area or move there for the green space nearby , now feel that they face see their community concrete over because of the Mayor of London ' s failure . the green belt be designate by conservative government in the 1930 and Labour government in the 1940 . one can not talk about it today in the context of Basildon and Billericay without talk about Basildon council ' s disastrous local plan , which be build on the destruction of the green belt . it will result in the emergence of a contiguous conurbation all the way from Shoeburyness , through the Thames gateway corridor and my constituency , into Brentwood and then through London all the way to Uxbridge on the other side . essentially , the area from Heathrow airport to Southend airport will become part of that contiguous conurbation . what I have to say about the green belt rest on so many conversation I have have with county , borough , town and parish councillor , but overwhelmingly on conversation with local resident across my constituency . my argument rest on four main point . first , there be overwhelming opposition to the proposal , especially in the context of London see a reduction in its housing target . secondly , there be serious concern about exist and future local service and infrastructure , if this housing go on the green belt . thirdly , there will be a need for even more physical infrastructure on whatever remain of the green belt to cope with the propose development , lead to its further erosion in the future . fourthly , local resident have broad concern about why the plan be be rush through so quickly with the destruction of so much green belt , while our local council have a gun to their head in respect of the Government ' s devolution plan . I want to be clear : resident of Basildon and Billericay be not against development per se . they be entrepreneurial , hard - work people who love their area . they be also community orient and have stay in Essex to raise their family or move to Essex from London for the green space and great sense of community . the level of building propose be on a scale completely out of whack with what other part of the country away from the south - east face . I be grateful to my parliamentary neighbour for give way . one of the most worrying thing about labour - run Basildon council ' s new local plan be that 17 , 000 of the 27 , 000 propose dwelling — just shy of two third of the total — be intend to be build in the green belt . surely that be environmental and ecological vandalism . my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . it would basically mean the merging of Wickford in his constituency with Basildon , as part of the continuous conglomeration of building that would go all the way through Greater London . early this week , the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution say in answer to my question that Basildon and Billericay resident should be proud of their council and its plan for 27 , 000 more property . if every constituency in England be be ask to take what Basildon and Billericay be be ask to take , the Government would have a housing target of 12 million home by 2040 . we be bear more than our fair share and more than be necessary . it be difficult to see how that be justify when housing target be be cut for London . as you can imagine , Madam Deputy Speaker , there be overwhelming local opposition to this . Central Government should be concentrate on densification of brownfield site . there be a real fear that when the green belt be go , the green site leave in the constituency will face immense pressure — place such Norsey Wood in Billericay , which will be the only green space for so many local resident . the pressure on the green space that remain will be huge , because none of the alternative will exist . if this plan be accept , even with modification , the town and village of the Basildon borough will become part of an amorphous mass . village such as Little Burstead , Great Burstead and South Green , Ramsden Bellhouse , Crays Hill and Noak Bridge just will not exist any more . they will be footnote in the history of Labour ' s plan to build , build , build . there be serious concern about local education provision , as we already have oversubscribe primary school . that be particularly acute when it come to special educational need , with some of the service be in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) . there be already major pressure on our green belt from the housing plan , and we be not see the service to go alongside it . that be particularly difficult for the green belt , because the only place where those service can be build be in that green - belt space . with the plan the council have put forward , what we be see be just the start of the erosion of our green belt . Healthcare be another major concern for local people . we be already see acute pressure on primary care service in south Essex , and yet we be expect to take potentially ten of thousand more resident , without any clear guidance from the Government on what will happen or any plan for where the additional health service we will require would be . we have see recently in the borough a lack of support from Basildon council ' s leadership for conservative councillor in Burstead and Billericay who be try to push back on plan to close south Green surgery . Police and fire service be another classic example of where we already face big pressure . the infrastructure require for the fire service and police service to respond within the require time be already be stretch to breaking point . all that extra building on the green belt in constituency such as mine will just put more pressure on those local service . that bring I to the need for more physical infrastructure . at the moment , Tye Common Road in my constituency be basically the last bit of green space we see before we get to the great conurbation of London . that be not go to exist — in the next few year , it will be carpet with huge amount of new building . small local road that be already over capacity , all of which go through the green belt , will have to be expand . whether it be the A129 , the a176 or Tye Common Road , which go between Basildon and Billericay , the massive expansion of those road will far damage the green belt . that be before we even come to the A127 or A13 , which run east - west through my constituency or just outside it , and be major arterial route for the entire region . the green belt be already massively at stake , and I do not want to see it far at stake . I do not want to see massive new road building programme , but they will have to happen if the Government ' s proposal go ahead . before I close , I want to mention the future - proofing of these plan . we be see the Government push for devolution across the country , and nowhere more so than in Essex . the local plan that have be propose , with all this churn up of our green belt , may well not be what be want by the council that the Government be basically go to impose on we , with a new unitary authority and a mayor , in a couple of year . I urge the Government to think very carefully . once the green belt have go , it can not be change back . we need to think again , especially as we face massive local government reform over the next couple of year , push forward by this Government . so many property be be propose locally for build on green belt land . that mean irreversible destruction , and the merging of town and village across Basildon borough . it be hardly surprising that local people be outrage by the loss of their green belt . I have yet to find anyone in my area who support the proposal . the people of Basildon and Billericay , Laindon , Crays Hill , Noak Bridge , Noak Hill , the Bursteads and Ramsden Bellhouse want the green belt to be protect to keep their community special . they be not against development ; they be just against the wholesale destruction of their community by a Government who do not seem to understand or care about they . I start by congratulate the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) on secure this important debate on the green belt in his constituency . while I disagree with many of the view he have just set out , I acknowledge the strength of feeling , and in particular his view on the emerge Basildon local plan . as the right hon . Gentleman be aware , this Government take a " brownfield first " approach to development . to that end , we make targeted change to the national planning policy framework in December to place even strong emphasis on the value of brownfield redevelopment , and to clarify that proposal for development on such land should be approve unless substantial harm would be cause by they . with a view to inform future policy development , we also publish a brownfield passport planning reform working paper in September , set out a series of proposal design to prioritise and fast - track building on previously develop urban land wherever possible . none the less , we know that there be simply not enough site on brownfield register across the country to deliver the volume of home that we need each year , let alone site that be viable and in the right location . that be why , in our first month in office , we consult on a new approach to the green belt to support local planning authority that face acute housing and development pressure in meet their need . I reiterate that the Government attach great importance to green belt and remain committed to preserve they . green belt have serve England ' s town and city well over many decade , not least by check the unrestricted sprawl of large build - up area and prevent neighbouring town from merge into one another . the Government have not change the five purpose of the green belt set out in paragraph 143 of the national planning policy framework , and do not propose to alter its general extent . instead , our reform provide for a more strategic approach to green belt land designation and release , allow we to move away from the previous Government ' s approach to the green belt , which be to allow land within it to be release regularly , in a haphazard manner , and often for speculative development that do not meet local housing need . as a result of our change to national planning policy , local authority must take a sequential approach to release land to meet their housing need : brownfield first , follow by low - quality land in the green belt , and only then higher - perform land . to identify low - perform site , we have incorporate into the NPPF a definition of grey belt land that reflect the fact that there be area currently designate as green belt that contribute little to it by way of aesthetic , public access or ecological value . to ensure that local authority be well equipped and support to implement our policy change , we will provide grant funding totalling £ 14 . 8 million to support authority with green belt review , and we intend to provide further guidance in the near future to support a consistent approach across the country to grey belt designation . I be interested to hear the right hon . Gentleman say that his local authority be identify swathe of grey belt land , give that we only publish our precise definition of grey belt land on 12 December . I shall be interested to hear how Basildon council be progress its green belt view base on that definition . because the Government recognise the public value provide by the green belt , we have ensure that where major development involve the provision of housing be propose on land release from it through plan preparation or review , or on green belt site subject to a planning application , it will be subject to new " golden rule " , ensure the delivery of high level of affordable housing ; the provision of new , or improvement to exist , green space that be accessible to the public ; and , importantly — I note the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment on the subject — the making of necessary improvement to local or national infrastructure . Mid and South Essex hospital trust , which run Basildon hospital , report that in the autumn , the hospital be run at between 98 % and 99 % of its bed capacity . in recent week , because of winter pressure and flu , bed capacity have exceed 100 % . the standard NHS ratio be 2 . 4 new patient for each house , so 27 , 000 new household be just under 65 , 000 new patient for Basildon hospital , which be already burst at the seam . surely the new local plan be unsound on that score alone ; Basildon hospital just can not cope with it . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that intervention , and I note his concern about hospital capacity in the area . my colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care will also have register those comment . we be work closely with colleague across Government to bring forward the necessary infrastructure , whether it be health or educational provision . it be for local authority in the first instance , through the development of up - to - date local plan , to address the need and opportunity in their area in relation to infrastructure , and — as plan policy guidance make very clear — to bring forward infrastructure funding statement set out what local infrastructure be need and how it should be fund , include through the contribution make by developer . I understand the principle , but I have read the local plan . there be not one specific word in there about plan to expand Basildon . there be an associated infrastructure delivery plan , which be a live document ; it be three year out of date , and there be no specific plan in there for Basildon . I understand the theory , but Basildon borough council simply have not address this — it have say nothing about it at all . I assure the right hon . Gentleman that I have hear the point he have make . he will understand that give the quasi - judicial nature of the planning system , I can not comment on the specific of an individual local authority ' s plan , but he have put his point on the record regard health provision in the area . when it come to affordable housing , our new golden rule will require a 15 percentage point premium on top of exist requirement , up to a maximum of 50 % . no site - specific viability assessment will be permit until we have strengthen national planning guidance on viability , in which we will consider the case for permit viability negotiation on previously develop land and large strategic site that be likely to carry great infrastructure cost . we have also ensure that the sustainability of site must be prioritise . no one want to see isolated and disconnected development , which be why our policy ask authority to pay particular attention to transport connection when consider whether grey belt be sustainably locate . I want to make it clear that while our reform will help deliver the home and development that this country so desperately need , they will not come at the expense of the natural environment or rural community . we be maintain the exist strong protection in the national planning policy framework for the good and most versatile agricultural land — the land most important for food production — and we have preserve protection for high - quality green - belt land and land safeguard for environmental reason , such as national landscape . alongside those protection , we be ensure that green - belt development deliver more accessible green space and support nature recovery . as the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay know , to support the Government ' s plan - for - change milestone of build 1 . 5 million new home this Parliament , we introduce a new standard method for assess local housing need . we recognise that as a result , some area of the country will see their target raise . that include London and the south - east ; the number we consult on back in July be raise partly in response to concern express through the consultation about the lack of responsiveness to affordability . many area will see their target raise , and on 12 December , we raise London ' s target from the number we have consult on . however , the acute and entrenched nature of the housing crisis in England demand that we take step to significantly increase the supply of home of all tenure , and all part of the country , include Basildon and Billericay , need to play their part . before I conclude , I will touch on the importance of up - to - date local plan . as I have just make clear to the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford , due to the Secretary of State ' s quasi - judicial role , I can not comment on specific . however , I will take the opportunity to underline that have up - to - date local plan be the good way for local community to shape development in their area , deliver housing that meet the need of their community , and ensure the provision of support infrastructure in a sustainable manner . will the Minister reflect on the concern I have raise , and that have be raise by my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) in previous debate , about the huge change we face locally with devolution ? who will be accountable for local plan when the council that be ram they through will not even exist in the near future ? there be real concern that this be like a hit job be do on our local community . I recognise the right hon . Gentleman ' s point . that will depend , of course , on the state of the local plan and what point it be at — whether it be at regulation 18 or 19 — and where it be move forward , but I recognise the point about interaction of the local plan development process with the proposal set out in the english devolution White Paper . there be also a related concern , which I have speak to the right hon . gentleman about on a previous occasion : the Government be very clear that we want to see universal coverage of strategic planning across the country , and we will be ask sub - region across the country to come together to produce spatial development strategy . that may address concern in his part of the country and other by ensure that they consider whether cross - border co - operation might ensure that housing growth happen in a planned and more sensible way , rather than every local authority attempt to meet its need within its own confine . the right hon . Gentleman will know that this Government inherit what I consider to be a frankly appalling situation in which less than a third of local planning authority have an up - to - date local development plan . that be not a sustainable basis for a plan - lead system , and that be why we have set out an expectation that every local planning authority must have a local plan . I appreciate that the right hon . Gentleman ' s involvement in the affair of Basildon council be a relatively recent development , but he will know that some of the pressure of unplanned development that the authority be experience will be because the current local plan be adopt in 1998 , make the authority one of a very small number without a Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 plan in place . that reinforce the point that get a local plan in place be the most effective protection against speculative development . where plan be not up to date , or where local planning authority be not deliver the home that their community need , it be right that development can come forward from outside the plan , but we want to see more plan - lead development across the country . the new council leadership have act to address the failure of its predecessor by bring forward a new local plan . I have register the right hon . Gentleman ' s view about it . local resident will obviously , through consultation , be able to feed in their own view about that emerge local plan , but we think it be important that it come forward , whatever form it finally emerge in . it be a sad reflection of the predecessor in that authority that the previous Government have to intervene to ensure a new local plan timetable be produce in December 2023 . as the council continue to work on the emerge plan , we expect it to explore all option to deliver its housing target , include maximise the use of brownfield land ; consider the densification of site , where appropriate ; work with neighbouring authority , as I say , as we move towards that emerge universal strategic plan coverage ; and , where necessary , have consider fully all other reasonable option for meet its identify development need , review its green belt . to conclude , I thank the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay for bring this important matter to the House . I note the concern that he and the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford have raise , and I look forward to engage with he far on how good we can meet housing need in full in his constituency . question put and agree to . House adjourn .