Oral Answers to Questions Business and Trade the Secretary of State be ask — export : small Businesses what recent step his Department have take to encourage small business to export . what recent step his Department have take to encourage small business to export . we have begin a series of roadshow , which bring overseas buyer to the UK to meet small business here in , for example , clean energy , advanced manufacturing , life science , technology , and digital , creative , financial and professional service . in addition , we be offer new online support to help small and medium - sized enterprise win new export order to EU market . I know from a recent business roundtable I host in my constituency of Bathgate and Linlithgow , and from many meeting with industry , that a common barrier to small business export be supply chain instability . in the past few year , we have see massive instability , include from the impact of the pandemic and now from the announcement of tariff . disrupt demand forecasting , increase cost of raw material and uncertainty be damage fledgling business in grow their export . what specific measure be the Department implement to help small business navigate these challenge , and to ensure they can maintain reliable supply chain as we enter another turbulent time for international trade ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , and I commend she for the business roundtable that she host . she be absolutely right , and we recognise that supply chain instability be a critical issue for business . we be therefore work hard to minimise the uncertainty that business face , both in export and in purchase from key market . whether through the economic deal with the US that we be seek to negotiate , the reset of our relationship with the EU , or new opportunity with India and the Indo - Pacific , we be keen to take down barrier to business . I have to say that the evidence continue to demonstrate that free and fair trade drive down price , offer well choice for consumer and , crucially , lead to more stable supply chain . I recently visit Phoenox Textiles in Denby Dale , a family - run business that proudly continue our community ' s heritage in the sector . it raise the concern that , while it operate a " zero to landfill " operation , low - quality , unsustainable import from chinese seller such as Temu undercut its business and the local growth that it sustain . how be the Government address this concern , and what be they do to support british business ? first , I commend the work of Phoenox Textiles and my hon . friend for champion its concern . because of the concern she have articulate , which we have hear from across the retail sector — I have certainly hear it from member of the Retail Sector Council — my right hon . friend the Secretary of State recently meet the Trade Remedies Authority to agree urgent step to prevent the dumping of cheap good in the UK . there will be increase support for business to report unfair practice , and my right hon . friend the Chancellor be also review the custom treatment of low - value import . last year our trade deficit be £ 32 billion and , apart from during the pandemic , we have run a deficit every year since 1998 . do the Minister agree that the trade deficit bring severe economic consequence , and be it government policy to reduce it over the course of this Parliament ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the fact that we need to increase export to all sort of market . it be one of the reason why we be take urgent step to agree a new deal with the US , why we be seek to reset our relationship with the EU , and why we be keen to open up new opportunity through a free trade agreement with India , and new opportunity in the Indo - Pacific . when he serve in a senior role under a previous Prime Minister , his party take decision to cut support for exporter . we be look at what we can do to help exporter move forward . the Minister will know that Meriden and Solihull East be proud to be the home of Jaguar Land Rover . JLR , the supply chain and the small business in it be crucial , not just for the constituency , but in export . I have write to the Secretary of State ask for a meeting , and I be very willing to work with the Government on this . I recently visit Washington and speak to Congress people about the damage that tariff can do . what be the Minister do to help not just JLR , but those small business , and how we can work together ? I know my right hon . friend the Secretary of State be urgently seek to arrange the meeting with the hon . member to discuss this issue , because we recognise that this be a key concern of the automotive sector . as I have say , we be seek to negotiate an economic deal with the US , but we be also look to work with the automotive industry to increase export of car and other thing that they produce across all sort of new market . one of the roadshow we be organise for small business be about that . I call the shadow Minister . the Government be far from support small business to export . business of every size , up and down the country , be fail at a rate not see since the 2008 financial crash , when Labour be last in power . confidence be slump , family business be close , millionaire be flee the country — and that be before tariff hit . what representation be the Minister make to the Chancellor about reverse some of the measure that hit business in her Hallowe ' en Budget ? I have think that one of the first contribution from the Opposition Front Benchers today would be to celebrate the £ 1 billion investment by ikea in the UK . it be open its flagship store on Oxford Street today , and commit to a range of investment in other town and city across the UK . when the hon . Lady be on the Treasury Committee , I do not know whether she look at the cut the previous Government make to help for small business in get their good into new market . we be take active step to increase the opportunity for small business in overseas market . Trade Agreements what step his Department be take to negotiate trade agreement with the UK ' s main trading partner . I announce in July that we be resume free trade agreement negotiation with the Gulf Co - operation Council , India , Israel , the Republic of Korea , Switzerland and T ü rkiye . we have also begin talk with the United States on an economic prosperity deal , and we support the Cabinet Office with trade aspect of the EU reset . give the utter unreliability and , frankly , economic illiteracy of President Trump , and give that the EU be by far our large trading partner , it be clear that the good interest of the UK be serve by our have a deal that allow the close possible co - ordination with the EU . do the Minister agree with I that that should cover youth mobility , and improve energy and climate co - operation ? specifically , will he work with his colleague to ensure that we ease burden for british business by link the UK and EU emission trading scheme , and by align on chemical regulation , to boost british productivity and prosperity ? I think that be a few question , but we seem to have time for they today , so I welcome all of they . first of all , I recognise exactly what the hon . Lady say . when it come to the importance of the EU as a principal trading partner for this country , the figure speak for themselves . I disagree with she about we have to choose between the US and the EU , or any other market . I believe that the UK can be well position for all market . there will be strong political view in this place about political leader in a range of country , but I would just say to she that when it come to the United States , there be potentially thousand of job at stake . that be why we be pursue a trade and economic prosperity deal with the US , and I think we can not get away from that . on the question relate to the EU , a successful negotiation take two party . I want to see great co - operation . I would not talk about the specific of any part of the negotiation , but I would not want the kind of barrier that she identify to be in place . I want the UK to have the good and most frictionless trade possible with the EU , in a way that be consistent with our aspiration and obligation with the rest of the world , but she have make her point very well , and I recognise it . I declare an interest as the trade envoy to New Zealand . what conversation have the Secretary of State have recently with his New Zealand counterpart on the implementation of the UK - New Zealand free trade agreement ? first , let I thank my hon . friend for all her work as our trade envoy to New Zealand . she know , because she be present , that on his visit to the UK , New Zealand Prime Minister Luxon spend the day with the Prime Minister , and I be able to spend considerable time with he in the afternoon . we discuss the implementation of the UK - New Zealand FTA , as well as the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership , and the importance of work together to support free trade and to protect a rule - base trading system . we be work to ensure that business be use the FTA to support the Government ' s growth agenda and the plan for change . later this month , we will host the UK - New Zealand FTA joint committee , which will discuss continue to grow UK and New Zealand trade . I call the shadow Minister . it be good to hear that the trade negotiation with India , which begin when we be in government , be progress well . there must surely now be an opportunity to reopen talk with Canada , so it can buy more wonderful cheese from the UK . with the tariff clock tick , I be sure the Secretary of State recognise that the US deal be the most urgent ; many UK job be at risk . however , we hear recently from the Chancellor , when she be in the States , that her big priority be discussion with the EU , where we already have zero tariff and zero quota . do the Secretary of State share the Chancellor ' s priority , or do he think the US be more urgent ? I thank the hon . Lady for the early part of her comment . she be right that we want the previous Government to secure the India FTA , and we be willing to support they fully in do that , but they be unable to get it across the line . with Canada , there be issue , particularly around agriculture , that be similar to those involve the US , so that may be more of a challenging negotiation . the entirety of this government , however , have be clear that we be not seek to pick between one market and another — both be absolutely fundamental . the Chancellor ' s comment specifically relate to the simple truth that there be a much great quantum of UK - EU trade than UK - US trade . equally , though , in all these negotiation , we have to focus on not just what can be do quickly , but what can be do right and in the national interest . there be no point secure an agreement that do not deliver on our objective , no matter whom that agreement be with . we will welcome any support from the Conservatives for the work we be try to do . I do believe it be easy politically for this Government to do some trade agreement that be available to the UK ; some may not have be politically available to the Conservative Government . we will continue to do that work , and we welcome all support for it , from across the House . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . yesterday , I ask the Prime Minister whether Parliament will get a final vote on any trade deal negotiate with the United States , and the Prime Minister state that it would go through the know process . that process do not include a vote for mps on the ratification of any trade deal . will the Secretary of State therefore make it explicitly clear , with a yes or no , whether mps will get a final vote on the deal with the United States ? the pm ' s answer yesterday imply that we would not . the answer , as the hon . Gentleman know , be no ; we be not , in this government , seek to change the ratification process for any treaty . he know the process and how it work . the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 set out that process . it allow mp to scrutinise any treaty agree with a country and present to the House . the implementation of any aspect of any treaty still have to come to Parliament , of course ; it be not the case that any agreement on any kind of international treaty can supersede what we agree in this place . in that process , all member of Parliament get the same right and privilege , quite rightly , but no — we be not propose change to the process by which we agree treaty with other country . UK - Europe Trade what step his Department be take to help support trade with european country . as we have just be discuss , increase trade with european country be and have be a focus of discussion between Ministers in the Department for Business and Trade and their EU counterpart . I recently meet Ministers from Spain , France , Denmark , Poland and Germany , and work be under way on the first UK - EU summit , schedule to take place on 19 May ; trade and the economy will form one element of a broad agenda about our strategic partnership . across wide Europe , we be negotiate an enhance free trade agreement with Switzerland , which we hope will strengthen our trading relationship there . the UK ' s economic relationship with Sweden be among the most important of our economic relationship with our european partner , particularly with Sweden have recently join NATO . as the Minister will know , Babcock be pursue a partnership with Saab to build four Lule å - class corvette for Sweden . that would involve significant work at Rosyth dockyard and secure thousand of job in my constituency . this would be a joint export product , bring considerable further value to the UK . give the significance of this deal to my constituency and shipbuilding in the UK , will the Minister confirm its importance to our relationship with Sweden , and do all that he can to support and champion this vital defence industrial partnership ? have work so closely with former Prime Minister Gordon Brown over a number of year , I be probably the last person in this Chamber who need to be convince of the economic significance of the Rosyth dockyard . as my hon . friend know , I have recently have meeting with Babcock ' s executive team , both in London and abroad . due to commercial sensitivity , I can not discuss detail of the deal to which he have refer . I be grateful for his recent letter to the Secretary of State on this matter ; a response be issue yesterday . he can be fully assure that the Government value the defence relationship with Sweden and fully recognise the importance of defence industrial partnership between the United Kingdom and swedish company . they contribute greatly to our defence and growth objective . food and drink be one of Scotland ' s most successful industry , and it be worth £ 15 billion to the economy . over the come month , the UK Government face a choice in their trade talk with the EU and US : do we align our food and farming standard with those in the EU , or reduce our quality standard at the behest of the United States ? will the Secretary of State guarantee that Scotland ' s food and drink industry will not be jeopardise through desperation to satisfy the demand of , and secure a deal with , Donald Trump ? at exactly this point tomorrow morning , I will be visit a farm in East Lothian , so I can assure the hon . Gentleman that I be fully aware of the importance of food and agriculture to the scottish economy and , more broadly , to the UK economy . I also respectfully refer he to the labour manifesto at the last general election , which make very clear our commitment to maintain important standard . I call the shadow Minister . the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill , which be about to start its Committee stage in the House , may sound a little dry , but it would give the Secretary of State unfettered power to sign up to dynamic alignment with the European Union at the 19th summit . give that voter be go to the poll today , will the Minister take the opportunity at the Dispatch Box to rule out the UK become an EU rule - taker ? I be slightly worried that the question add two and two and get about 97 . the Bill recognise that we have to find a way forward on standard with the European Union , but to try to overlay what be , as the shadow Minister say , a necessary and somewhat dry technical piece of legislation with the policy agenda that she allude to be simply wrong . Industrial Strategy : chemical sector what step he be take to include the chemical sector within the industrial strategy . the industrial strategy have identify eight key growth - drive sector that will be the arrowhead of our economic success , but of course they can not succeed without the critical supply chain and foundational industry that underpin they . we be look at all those foundational industry , include the chemical industry , to see what the barrier to growth be , what challenge they face , and how can we overcome they through our strategy . I very much welcome the Minister ' s recognition of the chemical sector ' s contribution as a foundational sector and an anchor employer in constituency such as mine ; we have the Dow site there . what can we do to support the deeply integrate supply chain across the UK and Europe that the chemical sector , and Dow in particular , rely on ? I do not want to underestimate the challenge that the chemical sector face . between 2021 and 2024 , UK chemical manufacturing fall in real term by about a third . we be work to improve the UK ' s trade and investment relationship with the EU . we want to build export and investment opportunity and reduce barrier to trade . conversation be at an early stage , so I will not go into specific , but we be certainly work to help the chemical industry . what assessment have the Minister make of the benefit that inclusion of the chemical sector among the eight sector could bring for our national security and our pharmaceutical sector ? how can all region of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland benefit from this sector ? when we look at the eight sector that we be try to turbocharge through the industrial strategy , we see that the chemical sector underpin so many other sector . we need to make sure that we protect it . as I have just say , chemical manufacturing have fall by nearly a third over the past three year ; we need to turn that around . we be look at what we can do to break down barrier and make improvement — for example , on the cost of energy . that be part of the mix when it come to make sure that we be secure in the future . Hospitality Industry what step he be take to support the hospitality industry . what step he be take to support the hospitality industry . hospitality business be vital to our community and to economic growth in the UK , which be why we plan to introduce permanently low tax rate for retail , hospitality and leisure property with rateable value of less than £ 500 , 000 . in addition , we recently hold our first licensing taskforce meeting , which aim to reduce red tape for the sector . next Thursday , on VE Day , pub and bar across the country will be able to stay open until late to enable everyone to celebrate all those who serve during the second world war . pub and the hospitality industry be by their very nature seasonal business and rely heavily on flexible work pattern . I see this at first hand when be serve by many young staff on my recent pub tour of the constituency . why be the Minister , through the power in the Employment Rights Bill , seek to end the flexible contract that benefit these young people , which will end up cause pub to have to close ? I gently remind the hon . gentleman of the dismal record of the Conservatives when it come to support for the hospitality sector ; 10 , 000 pub close between 2010 and 2024 . the Employment Rights Bill will not have the effect that he describe . the Bill will help to put money into people ' s pocket , which be exactly what we need to do to help the hospitality industry go forward . in my constituency , 115 pub and five brewery contribute £ 40 million to the local economy and support 1 , 500 job . as highlight by the British Beer and Pub Association , the sector face a disproportionate business rate burden , with pub pay a high share relative to their turnover , so will the Government commit to increase the upper threshold of small business rate relief in order that these iconic british institution continue to thrive ? I certainly take the hon . member ' s broad point about the significance of business rate to the hospitality sector , particularly pub . I have hear strong representation from the industry about the need for business rate reform . the hon . member will be delighted that this Government have instigate significant business rate reform , which previous government over the last 14 year do not do , include a permanently low rate for retail , hospitality and leisure . resident in Buchlyvie in my constituency be lose their only pub , which be be turn into holiday let . this come despite the objection of local resident and Stirling council ' s planning panel refuse the change - of - use application . the Scottish Government ' s planning reporter have step in and make what many local people think be a short - sighted decision . do the Minister agree that local village pub , like library and community centre , be vital to local wellbeing and cohesion and that we should do all we can to help they thrive as key part of our local economy and social infrastructure ? I completely agree with my hon . friend about the significance of pub across the UK , particularly in rural community such as those he represent . it be one reason why we be in the final throe of agree extra funding for the great organisation Pub be the Hub , which support pub in rural area to adapt to change need and enable they to continue to be the vital social hub that they be in community . I hope that the Scottish Government will have hear my hon . friend ' s comment and will recognise the need to follow the UK Government ' s line and instigate significant business rate reform . certainly , they need to look at provision on business rate relief , which be not as generous in Scotland , thank to their decision , as here in the UK , thank to the generosity of our Chancellor . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in a grave and exceptionally rare step , five major business group , include the Confederation of British Industry , make UK , the Institute of Directors , and the Federation of Small Businesses , have all write to condemn the Employment Rights Bill , and their view be share by ukhospitality and many other . they say that the Bill will damage growth and employment . I know that , and the Minister know that . this Bill will hurt business . every business tell I this , and they be tell he exactly the same . do the Secretary of State think that be why so many of his Ministers be unable to name a single business that support the Bill and his government ' s job tax ? I wonder whether the shadow Secretary of State might finally use this set of question to take the opportunity to apologise for help to write the Liz Truss Budget , which drive interest rate up fourteen time and do more damage to business than any other single measure in recent time . we have to take difficult decision to sort out the fiscal inheritance we get , and we recognise that to tackle the cost of living crisis that the Conservatives bequeath we , we need to ensure that there be more money in people ' s pocket . the Employment Rights Bill will help to do just that . US Trade Negotiations : farm what recent discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs on the potential impact of his trade negotiation with the US on the farming sector . I regularly engage with my Cabinet colleague on a wide range of issue , and in particular the UK ' s ongoing trade discussion with partner country , give the cross - cut nature of those matter . the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be a key partner in that process , include with the US . as colleague know , we have have constructive discussion with the US on an economic deal , and we remain committed to those talk , but we have make it clear that we will only ever sign trade agreement that align with the UK ' s national interest . our manifesto be also clear that we will always uphold our high food standard . the Secretary of State in DEFRA recently appoint Baroness Batters to lead a profitability review in farming and have set up a farm profitability unit in the Department . those be welcome and necessary step , but it be not entirely unknown for the effort of one Government Department to undermine those of another , so before the Secretary of State sign any trade deal with America , will he check in with DEFRA and run the rule over what it be do on farm income so that he do not undermine its effort ? we will all struggle to believe that at time different Departments could be well co - ordinated — I can not recognise that at all ! I absolutely agree with the right hon . Gentleman . the move to look at the business model around farming and profitability be welcome , and I think colleague on both side of the House would support that . on matter of trade , DEFRA and its Secretary of State be closely involve with those conversation . perhaps in the past the community have not always feel this , but in some of the ongoing trade negotiation that we be progress there be real export opportunity for UK agriculture . its quality and the premium and brand associate with that be a market that be grow around the world . part of our discussion in a range of different trade negotiation be about ensure that there be more opportunity in future , but I promise the right hon . Gentleman that the overall effort of Government in the sector be co - ordinated , and that be ongoing . export to the EU what step his Department be take to help increase export to the EU . three of our five large trading partner be in the European Union . indeed , 46 % of UK trade be with our friend , neighbour and partner in the EU . the Department for Business and Trade , along with other Departments across Government — I hope in a co - ordinate way — have be contribute to the resetting of our relationship with the EU , and be fully engage ahead of the first UK - EU summit schedule to take place on 19 May . among the broad spectrum of policy area , we aim to make progress on tackle barrier to trade and secure outcome that will help more business across the UK export to our european neighbour . this be a moment for Britain to show that it be serious about forge a renewed and reinvigorated relationship with the EU , which be still our large trading partner . if the forthcoming summit end up as another in a long line of miss opportunity , there be a real danger that Brussels will just move on to other priority . what concrete measure can business expect to come out of the summit to cut red tape and the barrier hold back british growth and prosperity ? I would be incline to wait for the summit before declaim it as a disaster — I think , in the trade , that be call prebuttal . however , the hon . Gentleman ' s point about the seriousness of the summit be a fair one , and I recognise it . when I see those image of the Prime Minister sit with President Trump in the Oval Office , or indeed with President Macron or President von der Leyen of the European Commission , I feel a genuine sense of relief that we have a serious Prime Minister for these serious time . that serious Prime Minister be intent on , first , rebuild personal relationship across Europe and , secondly , look to identify the area that be transparently win - win between ourselves and our friend , neighbour and partner in the European Union . I assure the hon . Gentleman that there be an ambitious agenda for the summit on the 19th . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Government need to deliver measure that will cut red tape for business in Wokingham and across the country who want to sell their good to our large trading partner , the European Union . since Brexit , over 2 billion piece of paperwork have be add to UK exporter — enough paper to wrap around the world nearly 15 time . do the Minister recognise the scale of that figure ? how will he ensure that Conservative - impose red tape for business with Europe be cut down ? we be consciously pursue a trade agenda base on datum , not on post - imperial delusion . regrettably , the data be pretty devastating on the damage do by how Brexit be implement by our predecessor . if one want to look at academic research , the late publication from Aston University indicate that a number of small and medium - sized business , about which we have hear a lot today from Opposition Members , be bury under red tape . it be not only those business that have be bury under red tape ; we have see an increase in the number of civil servant across the United Kingdom by more than 100 , 000 in recent year . that be partly why the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster in the Cabinet Office be lead our work on rethink the size and shape of the british state . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right in recognise that we have a responsibility to try and clean up the mess . that be what we be do . high Street Businesses what step he be take to help support high street business . we be reform business rate , roll out banking hub , stamp out late payment , empower community to bring vacant property on the high street back into use and begin to tackle the antisocial behaviour and crime that have bedevil the high street over the last decade . last month , we also announce a licensing taskforce that will recommend way to improve our licensing regime to foster vibrant hospitality , the night - time economy and cultural industry on the high street . a British Retail Consortium survey this week of major retailer employ half a million people find that 70 % say that the £ 5 billion a year Employment Rights Bill will have a negative impact on their business and half say that it would lead to job cut . how do the Minister expect our high street to cope with that extra cost , come on top of high business rate and high national insurance ? when will the Government actually listen to business and to the people create job in this country ? the conservative party have a rather dismal record on support to worker . I gently say to the hon . Gentleman that most business that do the right thing by their employee support the Employment Rights Bill . one reason the Bill be so important be that it will help put more money into people ' s pocket , and that will have a knock - on benefit for high street business . rural Businesses what step his Department be take to support business in rural area . rural area offer significant potential for growth and be central to our economy , so we be work closely with other Government Departments , include the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , to improve the quality of life for people live and work in rural area . later this year , we will launch the business growth service , which , in partnership with the growth hub network in England , will make it easy for business , include those in rural area , to get the information and support that they need to thrive . I thank the Minister for his answer . I be encourage that his Department be work with other Departments . there be brilliant vineyard in Mid Sussex , such as Bolney wine estate , which produce high - quality english wine . they form a vital part of the rural economy and they also entice domestic and international tourism . with the end of the wine duty easement on 1 February cause significant concern across the sector , what step be the Minister take to ensure that the english wine industry be not damage by that and instead can continue to grow and go from strength to strength ? we recognise that the english wine industry , which have go from strength to strength in recent year , be a crucial part of the rural economy and of the food and drink offer that the UK can rightly be proud of . it be one reason that we be seek to increase export of food and drink , include help English vineyard to export english wine to a range of market overseas , and we will certainly continue to do that . trade : US tariff what recent discussion he have have with his US counterpart on tariff . as we have hear , the US be our large single country trading partner , with total trade worth £ 315 billion in 2024 , represent 18 % of total UK trade . More than a million Americans work for UK - own business and vice versa . we have regular and ongoing constructive negotiation with our US counterpart , include some this week , on secure a wide economic deal to benefit UK business and our economy . in those talk , we continually push the case for free and open trade . nobody want to see a trade war , so our focus be on keep calm and continue to negotiate in the interest of UK business and consumer . as the UK ' s top export country , the US be a vital partner to many UK business , but with Trump now report to have make the UK a second - order priority to Asia and with the UK possibly on the verge of give up its Brexit freedom in favour of EU alignment , how confident be the Secretary of State of achieve a comprehensive free trade deal with the US , in both good and service ? first , let I assuage the hon . Gentleman ' s concern : that be a misreading of how the US be approach these negotiation . the US have perhaps more complex issue with some country that will take more bandwidth on its side . as I have always say , the exist relationship between the UK and the US be incredibly strong , reciprocal and mutually beneficial . I see far few issue to negotiate to get to that outcome . again , I would push back on anyone attempt to put the case that the decision we make must be base on either the EU , the US or any other partner be our principal partner . the role for the UK be to position ourselves in this challenging world with a genuine strategic advantage because we do thing that improve our trading relationship with the EU ; we secure this US deal ; and we secure the deal with India , the Gulf and other key market . I be pragmatic about where the UK ' s national interest lie and be absolutely confident that it be possible and desirable . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . today the Select Committee write to the Secretary of State to supply our response to his consultation on how we should respond to american tariff . we have hear widespread consensus that there should not be retaliatory tariff and that the approach the Government be pursue be right , but we have also hear real concern especially in the automotive industry among those big exporter to America and , crucially , their supply chain . can the Secretary of State reassure the House that he be ready support package across Government to ensure that our automotive sector do not run into serious trouble if we can not get a deal with America soon ? as my right hon . friend know , I always welcome communication from the Select Committee and the constructive and helpful role it play in all these important matter . he be right to say that the business community in the UK strongly back the Government ' s calm and level - head approach to these difficult issue . the automotive sector be one of our major priority . it be the sector that have the most export because of the brilliant success we have with automotive export to the US . it remain an absolute priority for we in any negotiation to secure what we need , which be the continuation of access to US market in a way that be complementary to the US and that meet the ambition of US consumer . frankly , I do not see any argument for make that relationship more difficult through the long - term imposition of tariff . we be closely engage in a number of important meeting this week with senior automotive leader , and we will continue to prepare that , work to keep the Select Committee involve . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . when we take office , year of conservative neglect have leave our steel industry on the brink , but while other be willing to let the heart of british industry go cold , we be not . I welcome the recent conversion of Opposition colleague to an active industrial policy , but make no mistake : while other may talk tough , only Labour can be trust to act in the interest of british worker . when the future of British Steel be on the line , we take immediate action . I can report to the House that thank to our intervention we have secure the raw material to keep Scunthorpe ' s blast furnace light , and British Steel have cancel the redundancy consultation , which put 2 , 700 job at risk . it be an honour to visit Scunthorpe and Immingham port recently to meet british Steel worker , and I be enormously grateful to they for their resilience , determination and hard work during a turbulent time . there be still much to be do to protect and rebuild our steel industry as a whole after a decade of failure , and that be why we be commit to a £ 2 . 5 billion clean steel fund and to work with industry on our steel strategy . we have always say that steel have a bright future in this country , and our action over the past month have show that we mean it . to bring the Secretary of State to Hampshire and Surrey , there be major regeneration scheme under way in my constituency at Farnham , in Brightwells , and the new town centre in Bordon . both will ultimately depend on attract physical business , be it retail , hospitality or otherwise , for their long - term success . do the Secretary of State agree that the Government should actively support prospective business in those area , and do he not recognise that new taxis such as the national insurance contribution increase that his Government have impose on business will cause business in my constituency to falter before they have even take off ? I welcome the progress be make in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency — I think he be about to invite I there , which be often the case at topical question , but I sadly do not manage to secure an invitation . I have be absolutely clear : I genuinely wish the inheritance of this Government be a well one in economic term than the one we receive . I genuinely wish the Conservative Government have not leave that black hole and that we have not have to make difficult decision , but life be sometimes about difficult decision , and Government and business certainly be as well . without investment in infrastructure , without a serious approach to the fiscal rule , which be absent for much of the last government , and without investment in the health service , we would struggle . I welcome the success he be talk about ; I be always keen to work with he on that . pub and restaurant be part of a thriving hospitality sector in my constituency . what initiative be the Department planning to support such small business and boost economic growth in Colne Valley ? of course , I invite the Minister to visit my constituency and experience our fantastic hospitality sector . the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) might not invite Ministers to his constituency , but I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s invitation — diary permit , I would be delighted to come along . last year , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State announce our plan for a business growth service , which should make it easy for UK business to get Government advice and support in order to grow . I hope that will make a real difference . in addition , we be consider what else we can do to unlock well access to finance for small business such as those in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Secretary of State say that all the funding require for the nationalisation of British Steel will come out of exist budget . we have see his Department ' s budget — we have an estimate day debate in the House not long ago — and there be no unallocated pot . could he be a little more specific about exactly which budget the money be come from ? the shadow Secretary of State point to the statement in which I say that in the previous budget there be a £ 2 . 5 billion allocation for the green steel fund . of course , that come in addition to the £ 500 million for the Port Talbot transformation , which be agree under the previous Government but be not in the departmental account — as he know , it be in a heavily oversubscribed Treasury reserve . yes , the green steel fund will be there to support what we have have to do at Scunthorpe . again , as I say when Parliament be recall , the question there be whether we would pay a significant amount of money for the total loss of the business ; give a large amount of money to Jingye , but without the certainty that it would be able to deliver on that plan ; or step in and take the action that we do , which I be confident be the right option for value for money and for Scunthorpe . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer . I think it be widely agree that the cost of nationalise British Steel could run into the billion . be he really say that he plan to raid the previously allocate £ 2 . 5 billion green steel fund from the national wealth fund , and how be he do that give that the national wealth fund be operationally independent ? be not the truth that , soon or later , this will have to come from his department ' s budget at the expense of financial support for the automotive sector , exporter and hard - work trade negotiator ? I recognise the shadow Secretary of State ' s concern , but let I reassure he on that point . the option available to the Government be : first , the total collapse of British Steel , which would have have an incredible cost to the Exchequer of well over £ 1 billion ; secondly , the request from Jingye for £ 1 . 2 billion , which the Leader of the opposition say she do or do not agree to in some way with it go to Teesside , at very significant cost ; or thirdly , as we have do so far , the provision of work capital to British Steel in order to pay wage and continue the purchase of raw material and the operation of the business . of course , those cost will be incur by the company , because they will enable it to produce and sell steel . I will write to he with the detail if he be not confident in the decision that we have make , but it be the right decision not just for the steel industry but for the taxpayer . wherever possible , I think we should buy British , and that obviously start with buy British - make ceramic . may I encourage the Department of Business and Trade to support my Ceramics ( Country of Origin Marking ) Bill , which would crack down on cheap import and faker who pass off their product as british ware ? it be important for the consumer to know that when they buy British , the good be make here in the UK . I be always keen to support my hon . friend , and I will certainly consider that legislation . we be not a protectionist government — we welcome open and free trade — but we believe british good can compete on quality , and his area be a fine example of that . where british good be be undercut , not by price and fair competition but by misrepresentation and fraudulent practice , we take that seriously and have take more power to deal with it . I be sure that he will raise this shortly during the urgent question . we will ensure that we give he the support he need to pursue it . Enersys ABSL be a space battery manufacturer base at the Culham campus in my Oxfordshire constituency . the Minister will be aware that Culham have be designate as an AI growth zone by the Government . it apply for an export licence last August but get an outcome only last week , which mean the contract be nearly lose to a french competitor . what step be the Minister take to improve the process for grant export licence , so that company be not subject to this kind of last - minute jeopardy ? I be unfamiliar with the particular case but concerned by that description . we inherit the export licensing system , and we be review it as part of our ongoing work look at all aspect of the Government ' s work . if the hon . member write to I , I will certainly take a personal interest in the matter and write back to he . folkestone and Hythe have a long history as a thriving tourist destination , but in recent year , with Brexit and rise cost , thing be get hard for business in our coastal community . what step be the Department take to support the growth of the tourism and hospitality industry in Kent ? I know from personal experience that there be some great hospitality and tourism business in Kent , and we want to see they do even well in the come month and year . that be why we be seek to support the sector through initiative such as business rate reform and the licensing taskforce , which have just start work . it be also why the Government will launch a national visitor economy strategy this autumn , as we seek to welcome 50 million international visitor annually by 2030 — and many of they , I suspect , will visit Kent . if the Secretary of State be not go to visit Farnham , can I tempt he to visit Fountain Beauty Therapy in Hurtmore , a much - love business in my constituency ? the owner , Clare Porter , talk about the extreme pressure cause by the Employment Rights Bill , the hike in employer ' national insurance and the withdrawal of business rate relief , lead to a crisis in the hair and beauty sector . what measure be the Secretary of State planning to alleviate pressure on this very important sector ? I be grateful to finally get an invitation to somewhere . we understand that there be significant pressure for many business , and the global situation certainly will not provide reassurance in the short term . the measure in the Employment Rights Bill be not in effect yet and will take some time to come in . since the election , nearly 200 , 000 job have be create , so the labour market be hold up particularly strongly . there be particular issue such as make sure we get probationary period right and that zero - hour contract be monitor in the right way , and we be work with business on that . this month I meet Berkshire Growth Hub , which work with business in Bracknell and beyond on everything from start up to opportunity in AI . how can we ensure that growth hub work with Skills England to continue to deliver local growth in community such as mine ? I commend my hon . friend for meet with Berkshire Growth Hub . growth hub play a crucial role in local economy . we want to supplement their work with our business growth service , which be set to launch later this year , and we be work with Skills England to identify the skill shortage in particular area . I be happy to ensure that Skills England talk to Berkshire Growth Hub through my hon . friend , so that the particular skill challenge in Berkshire be understand by Skills England . arrangement at the border be disadvantage company on both side of the channel , so there be mutual advantage to be have in negotiation without feel the need to make any major concession , aren ' t there ? I be not entirely convinced that the previous Government be a compass by which to navigate the next set of negotiation with the European Union . the right hon . Gentleman be entirely right that there be a whole series of unnecessary barrier to trade between ourselves and the European Union that be put in place as a direct consequence of the failure of the negotiation lead by the previous Government . he be right to recognise that that be affect directly a whole number of business on both side of the channel . as the Secretary of State say , there be politic on both side of the channel , but we be work very hard for british business in that context . can the Minister assure the steel community of south Wales that they will receive a substantial share of the £ 2 . 5 billion steel fund ? my hon . friend and several other Welsh colleague have be talk to I about this . we renegotiate the deal with Port Talbot and the £ 500 million that go alongside that . I have a good meeting this week with Blastr , which be look to build an iron pellet plant at the Port Talbot site if possible , and we be try to support that . of course , our focus in recent week have be on Scunthorpe and British Steel , but the steel fund remain . the steel plan be still be work on , which be very broad and hope to lift the entire UK steel industry . Sheen Uncovered be a clothing business in my constituency that the Secretary of State be welcome to visit any time . it have be significantly affect by the need to pay import duty up front , thank to the Conservatives ' terrible Brexit deal , and that duty range between 6 % and 12 % and greatly impact its cash flow . what be the Government do to support business such as Sheen uncover to reduce the challenge of import cost ? I assure the hon . Lady that we be look at how we can improve that relationship , and she be right to recognise that a whole number of barrier be create as a consequence of choice make previously , which be cause significant challenge to business small , medium and large . as the Secretary of State make clear , we can not give a running commentary on discussion that be under way , but I assure she that the need and concern of british business be uppermost in our mind in those discussion . on the day of the Government ' s necessary action to save British Steel , I send the Secretary of State a letter request a meeting to discuss what far we need to do for Grangemouth , where hundred of job have be lose this week when Petroineos decide to cease refining operation , and where thousand of further job be at risk . will he commit to meet I to discuss the urgent action that we need to take to secure accelerated investment in Grangemouth ' s industrial future ? I can absolutely give that assurance . I have have meeting about this issue just this week . we be ambitious for the just transition for Grangemouth and recognise the issue not just with the refinery but with the polyethylene cracker . we will get to work and set that meeting up . many rural business rely on farm for their trade . since the Government announce the family farm tax in the Budget , CBI Economics have speak to over 4 , 000 business and farm across the country — 49 % say that they have either cancel or defer investment , and 34 % say that they have reduce or pause it altogether . how can the Government say that they be support local business , and what will the Department do to support farm and rural business that be suffer because of the Government ' s policy ? I feel that be a question for either the Treasury or the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , but the hon . Lady make it well . agriculture feature prominently in trade and business , and I will ensure that she get the right opportunity to put question about taxation to the Chancellor . across my constituency in recent week we have experience severe delay to post in those area serve by the Huntingdon delivery office . that follow a recent restructuring of the workforce and change to delivery route . rural community and business , in particular , have be impact , with miss hospital appointment and several business tell I that it be affect their ability to receive and therefore pay invoice . will the Minister urgently investigate those ongoing and worsen delay in Huntingdon , and write to I with the outcome of his finding ? I have to wait 50 minute for a question , Mr Speaker , but this be an important one and I share the hon . member ' s concern . we regularly meet Ofcom to discuss the performance of Royal Mail , and I will certainly write to he about the discussion we have in respect of his constituency . what discussion have the Minister have with his counterpart in Northern Ireland about encourage young people into casual hospitality employment , to teach they about the benefit of work and the importance of manage money ? I be always grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . we always seek to keep colleague in Northern Ireland well brief on a range of issue , particularly some of the complexity around trade that have come out of the Windsor agreement and need to be manage carefully . I do not think I have have a specific conversation about the matter he raise , but this be a good opportunity to say that I think I should , and I will . I be grateful to he for get that on the record . will the Secretary of State be straightforward with the House today about how much taxpayer ' money have be spend so far on British Steel ? the amount of work capital provide to British Steel to date stand at £ 94 million , which be considerably less than if we have give a large amount of money to Jingye , or if we have have to deal with the complete loss of the entire British Steel site and business . modelling by the Scottish Government have show that Brexit - make barrier be likely to have reduce scottish export by £ 3 billion , compare with continue EU membership . Greater co - operation and a close relationship with the EU will always be encourage by SNP Members , but do the Secretary of State recognise that anything short of full single market and custom union membership continue to damage Scotland ' s economy ? in substantive term , the hon . Gentleman ' s point be important : we should be look to reduce unnecessary barrier to trade between the United Kingdom and our friend , neighbour and partner in the European Union . however , on a political level , it be worth recognise that , have Scotland vote in 2014 to leave the United Kingdom , it would also have leave the European Union . there be a certain irony in be tell that a politic of flag , border and manufactured grievance be wrong in one context , when his party continue to argue for they in another . accord to report in the Guardian , Government source have say that issue around visa have be resolve as part of the Government ' s free trade agreement negotiation with India . will the Secretary of State rule out visa liberalisation as part of those negotiation ? we should always be careful about what we read in some newspaper . [ Laughter . ] the hon . Gentleman know that we can not give a running commentary on trade negotiation , but the UK - India talk have be fruitful this week . I be optimistic and excited for the future of what be a key relationship bilaterally and for the signal it can send to the rest of the world . energy price : energy - intensive Industries ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero if he will make a statement on the Government ' s approach to reduce energy price for energy - intensive industry . I relay my thought to the worker in my hon . friend ' s constituency , for whom I know this be a worrying time . I thank my hon . friend for raise the issue . he be a tireless champion for worker and business in his constituency . we have speak and will continue to speak regularly about these issue and the importance of the ceramics industry in his area in particular . this Government recognise the challenge high energy price pose to UK business . we know that the ceramics sector be particularly affect ; my hon . friend have raise the issue in Parliament on other occasion . the Government be work closely with Ceramics UK and local Stoke mps to work out how we can support the sector . for energy - intensive industry overall , our clean power 2030 target be the key to long - term sustainable price reduction . clean home - grow energy be the good way to protect bill payer and boost Britain ' s energy independence . we be already bring energy cost for UK industry close into line with other major economy through the british industry supercharger . that will fully exempt eligible firm , include some but by no means all of those in the ceramics sector , from certain cost link to renewable energy policy , particularly those expose to the high cost of electricity . use more electricity and less fossil fuel be the future for UK business . the late advice from the Climate Change Committee expect electricity to meet 61 % of industrial energy demand by 2040 , so we be develop option to enable business to do that . we be already take action . when my hon . friend raise this important issue in a Westminster Hall debate in March , I note : " we be work on how to remove undeveloped , speculative programme from the grid connection queue and prioritise other . " — [ Official Report , 4 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 109WH . ] just last month , we announce pro - growth reform to help unlock £ 40 million of mainly private investment a year in clean energy and infrastructure , so that so - call " zombie project " will no long hold up the queue for connection to the electricity grid . we recognise that we need to support a range of energy - intensive industry , include industry such as ceramic , that be essential to our UK economy and our mission , for example to build the 1 . 5 million home and the clean energy infrastructure product in which this Government be already invest . follow year of economic chaos and instability under the previous Administration , this Government be implement a modern industrial strategy that will drive growth and the creation of good high - quality job in community across the UK . I look forward to continue to work with my hon . friend and other hon . member from across the House . we be meet next Wednesday and I hope to be able to progress thing far at that stage . I thank the Minister for her engagement on this issue , because she have genuinely and authentically try to look for a way forward . when my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) and I have a meeting with the Minister six week ago , we warn she that other factory be go to fail , and we stand here follow the closure of Moorcroft yesterday . she will be aware that other factory in Stoke - on - Trent be work on short time as a way of reduce cost so that they can put more money into meet their ever - increase energy bill . I thank the Minister for the outline she have give , but she will know that we have previously talk about most of the thing she have raise today , and they do not apply to the ceramics sector or to great swathe of the energy - industrial sector as a whole . the supercharger scheme do not work for the ceramics sector ; indeed , ceramics company end up have to subsidise other energy - intensive industry , because they be not part of the supercharger scheme . we have be tell that we can not see an exception to that . we have ask about the emission trading scheme and free trade allowance and have be tell that some be available for ceramic , but that do not go far enough to meet the demand we have today . we have be constantly promise jam tomorrow , by the last government as well as this one — well , jam be no good if you be dead , and the ceramics sector in Stoke - on - Trent be on life support . we be at a point where good manufacturing job do by proud people be fall away every month . this be not new : it start in 2019 , with the closure of Dudson , and continue with the closure of Wade in 2022 , Johnson Tiles in 2023 and Royal Stafford and now Moorcroft in 2025 . the energy - intensive industry in this country be pivotal to manufacturing . if we see they fall away , manufacture in this country will fall away . I ask the Minister three very simple question . will she look at a wholesale change to the way in which we do subsidy and energy price for energy - intensive industry in the short term , before GB Energy come online ? as well meaning as GB Energy be , it be too far away to help . will she rule out specifically move any policy cost on to gas cost ? gas be the big cost for the ceramics sector ; electricity be a small proportion of what we do . will she take the opportunity to make a clear commitment at the Dispatch Box , as the Secretary of State for Business and Trade just do when he talk about a sector fall on its knee ? ceramic be there . we do not need the same level of investment that steel do ; we need a tiny fraction of it . can we have it , and can we have it soon ? if we have to come back here in six week , there will be no sector leave to defend . I agree with my hon . friend and recognise the challenge . we lose 1 , 250 job in the ceramics sector between 2015 and 2023 . it have be a very sad decline , and we want to turn that around . the whole point of an industrial strategy be to have a Government who be proactive in support our industry . we will not put extra cost on the ceramics industry ; we be look to see how we can help and support . my hon . friend have my word on that . we be work on every single one of the suggest policy reform in the package that Ceramics UK have put forward , and we will meet he next week to talk about these thing . I can not make promise at the Dispatch Box on area that be not my responsibility and rule out whole swathe of policy , but I assure my hon . friend that we will not put extra cost on the ceramics industry . we be look to do more and to support , and we will come back . I completely understand his point about the timing and the need to act quickly . I call the shadow Secretary of State . Grangemouth , the Luton Vauxhall plant and now the moorcroft pottery in Stoke - on - Trent — every single week , we hear of more job loss in energy - intensive industry and more british company shut up shop and lay off worker because of the toxic combination of high energy cost and this Chancellor ' s devastating job tax . we have the high industrial electricity price in the developed world . just this week , INEOS tell we in no uncertain term that carbon taxis and high energy cost be kill off manufacturing in the UK . this Government have be warn by Opposition Members , by the GMB this week and by Unite . this week , they be warn by none other than Tony Blair . what be their response ? adviser in no . 10 Downing Street pick up the phone and beg he to row back on what he say . they ask he to row back on what we all know to be true — what the Minister , Morgan McSweeney , apparently , and an increase number of the Government ' s own Back Benchers know to be true : the current approach to energy and net zero be doom to fail , and voter be be ask to make financial sacrifice when they know that the impact on global emission be minimal . that be at the heart of this madness . this Government be wilfully destroy british industry in oil and gas , ceramics , chemical and metal when they know that it will not make a difference to global emission . we will not use any less oil and gas ; neither will we use any less steel , cement , brick or chemical . we will just import those thing from abroad , at great cost to our economy and the climate and with british job loss add to the bargain . as the Government be lead by an ideological zealot , the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , and by a Prime Minister too weak to rein he in , we will continue down this path , and british worker will pay the price — in Aberdeen , in Grangemouth , in Luton , and today in Stoke . energy be not a silo ; energy cost underpin growth , prosperity , competitiveness and living standard . without cheap energy , our industry will not survive — british manufacturer can not remain competitive — so what will the Minister do to prevent more british job be lose in energy - intensive industry in this country ? will she listen to the head of Unite , who say that working - class people be lose their job and that this Government have no plan to replace they ? will the Government end their mad ideological plan to shut down North sea operation ? what will it take for Labour Back Benchers to wake up and realise that this ideological approach be cripple this country ? the conservative party be hide behind this new - find scepticism of net zero to conceal its complete failure to support and grow our foundational and manufacturing industry on its watch . on its watch , we lose 70 , 000 job in the North sea and 1 , 250 job in the ceramics sector , chemical manufacturing fall by 30 % , and we produce only 30 % of the steel that we use in this country . the conservative party ' s record on this issue be shameful . this government have a completely different approach . we be develop the industrial strategy , which will support those foundational industry . we be look to make sure we can reach net zero by 2030 , in order to provide the economic and energy security we need . the last cost of living crisis be cause by our reliance on global gas price , as the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) know , and as he occasionally say in some meeting when he flip and flop on his position on net zero . we will support manufacturing ; we be develop our industrial strategy , which will be publish in a few week ' time , and we be already provide more support to the energy - intensive industry through the energy supercharger than the previous Government do . we will act where the previous Government fail to act . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) be an enormous champion of the ceramics industry , and he be right to bring this question to the House today , but this issue be wide than simply the ceramics sector . Tata Steel have tell our Committee that energy price be the single big factor in its lack of competitiveness , and Nissan have tell we that electricity price at its plant in Sunderland be the high of any Nissan plant in the world . we have recommend that the Government bring energy price in line with our european competitor ; can the Minister tell we today that she share that ambition ? I thank my right hon . friend the Committee Chair for his question . of course this be a huge issue . under the previous Government , industrial energy price double , and as my right hon . Friend say , we have high price than many other country . the 3 , 000 people who respond to our consultation on the industrial strategy say that energy , skill and access to finance be their top three issue , so we be absolutely aware of the issue . we be look at what support we can provide and how we can make our country more competitive , both for the people who be look to invest in the UK and for our exist manufacturing base . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats believe that the future of british industry and our national security depend on a serious and sustained commitment to renewable energy . we want to see far great emphasis on clean energy source , particularly solar , in order to reduce our dangerous reliance on fossil fuel , strengthen our energy security , and tackle fuel poverty by bring down energy bill for household and business alike . in the face of Putin ' s barbaric war in Europe and with Donald Trump ' s reckless tariff threaten fresh economic turmoil , we can not afford to be complacent . the future of energy - intensive industry , not least our steel industry , hang in the balance . steelmaking be not just an economic asset ; it be of vital strategic importance to the UK . we need steel in order to build the infrastructure require for a sustainable , secure future , from wind turbine and railway to hospital and home . without it , our ambition for net zero and national resilience will collapse . as such , will the Government give a clear , unequivocal commitment to their net zero plan , and will they ensure that no option be off the table when it come to safeguard our steel industry and the future of british manufacturing ? I can give the hon . Gentleman reassurance that we be look at all option to support the steel industry , which be foundational to our country . he make the correct point about how important steel be to build our future , whether it be runway , home or other infra - structure . we be look at all option , and we have the steel plan , which will be come out soon , and the £ 2 . 5 billion earmark to support the steel industry . my constituency have many brilliant metal manufacturing company that supply critical UK industry in defence , automotive and construction . however , many of they be struggle because the last Government leave we with sky - high electricity price and a dependence on foreign gas import . last month , I launch make UK ' s new " Electrify Industry " initiative in Parliament , which seek to address this broad challenge . can the Minister set out how the clean power 2030 action plan will make industrial energy cost cheap and help we drive growth in the west midland manufacturing industry ? I thank my hon . friend for her championing of her constituency . I be still to visit , and I must do that , because I know she have many exciting place for I to see . electrify industry be crucial . the Climate Change Committee have say that that be the route and that 61 % of industry will need to be electrify . we need to make sure we do that . we be look through the spending review process , as I be sure she would expect , at how we can support industry to make that change to electric and how we can help with some of the capital cost , which will lead to low cost in the long term . make that leap can be difficult , and that be what we be look at through the spending review . why be it well , accord to the Government , to import gas from Norway instead of develop our own North sea gas field ? the North sea field be a decline basin . we lose 70 , 000 job under the previous Government . something like only one in 10 of the licence that have be approve over recent year have actually amount to anything , because of the difficulty of a decline basin . the impact on price of a very small amount of the global mix come from the North sea would be zero . it would not change a penny in the cost we would pay . when the previous Government look at support energy - intensive industry , they include within the definition brewer , cider maker and wine maker , but not distiller , despite the fact that distiller use 17 kW per hour to make a litre of alcohol , compare with brewer which use just 0 . 5 kW per hour . as the Government consider what they will have to do to support energy - intensive industry such as distilling , will the Minister consider that the Scotch whisky industry in particular be critical to the maintenance of economic activity and good - quality job in some of the most remote and economically fragile community in this country ? we be obviously keen to do what we can to support the scottish whisky industry . I have be to see it and understand how important it be . the definition of energy - intensive industry be develop under the previous Government , and we have no immediate plan to change those , but I will take away the right hon . Gentleman ' s point and look into it . on net zero , I think there be a national consensus on make the environment well , create green job and improve energy security , but will the Minister recognise that for many people , consumer and company out there — particularly small business , by the way ; it be not all about large one — there be too much happen , too soon and too fast ? rather than have regressive and punitive taxis on industry and small business , there should be more education and more incentive to change consumer and company behaviour . the right hon . Gentleman make a perfectly reasonable point . we have a national consensus that we need to act , and I think the population be with we on that . they understand that we need to make sure we have a planet for our child and our grandchild and that we need to do everything we can . as be say this week , we want to tread lightly on people ' s life , and of course we do not want to inflict regressive and punitive taxation . we want to make sure we be support industry and business , and we be look at how we can help to incentivise the change that we need to see . despite Scotland ' s grow abundance of potentially cheap renewable energy , business in Scotland ' s energy sector be deal a double blow , whereby energy - intensive business in the renewable supply chain be hammer by high energy cost in production and extortionate transmission charge . when the Minister look at this problem , as her colleague tell I he would the other day , will she bear in mind that this be entirely link to the high cost of produce energy and all the other way in which the current energy market model serve Scotland poorly ? I think it be probably the Minister for Energy , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , who give that assurance to the hon . Gentleman , and he be look at all these issue . we have a very complex energy system . we be try to make it as cost - effective as we can , and sustainable in the long term , to give we the energy security that we all need . I be sure my hon . friend will continue to look at these issue . a vital ingredient of any net zero policy be an understanding of the word " net " . ultimately , we be go to have to grapple with technology that we have have for over a century to remove carbon directly from the air , aren ' t we ? we be happy to look at a range of option . the whole point of the clean energy plan be that we be use a very diverse range of intervention , some of which be more high - tech and for the future , and some of which be well establish . we need that mix . give the huge economic and environmental effect of burn fossil fuel , it be clear that the future of energy have to be clean , green , cheap renewable , plus energy efficiency . all of we who care about fact - base , truth - base politic should call out the outrageous misinformation from those who suggest that net zero be the reason for high energy price , when it clearly be not . gas price have go through the roof in recent year , and we all know why : because of Putin ' s outrageous invasion of Ukraine . that be why company and business be struggle . there be two specific thing that the Government can and should do to help precisely those business : first , decouple the price of electricity from gas so that the true cost of generate electricity be reflect in the price that consumer pay ; and secondly , implement a carbon tax in order to be able to use those revenue to assist industry to make the just transition from fossil fuel to the clean , green , cheap energy of the future . the hon . Lady be right to point out that there be a lot of misinformation in this space , and it be often use by the Conservatives to hide their own failing in government . of course , the energy price hike that we have be partly because the previous Government have not deliver the security that we need in our home - grow energy supply and storage . we be look at all option to make sure that we have the right system in place go forward . we already have the emission trading scheme , and we be look at where that go in future year . she be right to point out that we need to look at all these thing . the pretence be that Britain be somehow catch in a storm - toss sea of international gas price , which drive up energy cost , but when INEOS report that it be pay £ 127 million a year in carbon taxis , rise to £ 2 billion by 2030 , be it not the case that we be see the cascade of job loss because Labour have make decarbonisation deindustrialisation ? I think the hon . Gentleman know that his own party be the expert on deindustrialisation , which we see significantly across all part of our manufacturing sector , include at INEOS . I regularly meet ineo , as do the Secretary of State and other colleague , and we be look at what we can do to support the sector . it face a lot of challenge , and we be look to try to resolve they . my constituent in Edinburgh West , like many other across Scotland and the UK , depend on energy - intensive industry for their livelihood : defence , whisky and Grangemouth . how can the Minister reassure people who be already suffer because of high domestic energy price that the situation will not be make bad by lose job in those industry ? the hon . Lady be right to raise these challenge , which we be try to grapple with . we be look at how we can provide support on energy price and other aspect for energy - intensive industry . of course , the energy - intensive industry that qualify for the supercharger be get significantly increase support from April , which will be helpful , but we recognise that that do not go far enough , and we need to do more . talk of expert in deindustrialisation , over 1 , 000 job at Luton ' s Stellantis plant have be lose , impact my constituent , because this government do not respond to concern about energy policy . if the Minister do not agree with we on net zero , do she agree with the general secretary of the GMB , who say that the Government ' s energy policy amount to " export job and import virtue " ? I have meet and talk with those from Stellantis many time , and while the closure of the site at Luton be of course very difficult , I know that the reason be global and complex ; it be simply not the case that it be because of energy policy . Stellantis face a whole range of issue globally , and it have to respond in the way it do . we regret that , and we offer support , but we could not get to a point where we could persuade it to stay . we be work with the mps and the local council to ensure that what come afterwards provide good , decent job , but the hon . member be just wrong to say that that be the only reason . the Minister have tell the House that the Government would not impose any new cost on the ceramics industry , but we know that they be go to increase carbon taxis , which will kill off energy - intensive industry . do she not see that this be a totally incoherent policy position ? there be no coherence under the previous Government , and there will be coherence under this Government . we be develop our plan of support for our foundational industry in the industrial strategy . I know that the opposition be very keen to see what the industrial strategy will contain . they will have to wait a few week for its publication , but all will be reveal in due course . I thank the Minister very much for her answer . manufacturing currently represent less than 10 % of the UK economy , but in Northern Ireland it represent 16 % of the economy and about one in four family in Northern Ireland be dependent on manufacturing . it be clear that , as energy price rise , so do the concern for such industry . how can the Government and the Minister offer support to those industry to retain their viability while the Government be find an energy solution ? the hon . member be right to raise this issue , and the figure for manufacturing in Northern Ireland of 15 % or 16 % be high . yesterday , I be with trade unionist from Shorts Brothers — Spirit AeroSystems — to talk about the importance of manufacturing there and the importance of retain those job . they make the point that these good job have help not just with people ' s life , but with the sectarian divide . bring people out of poverty and give they good , well - pay job be an incredibly important part of the history of Northern Ireland and of what we need to preserve there . I will continue to work with he to make sure we protect that manufacturing base . we of course have huge support in the Budget , with the £ 2 billion for the automotive sector and the £ 1 billion for the aerospace sector to support exactly that manufacturing industry . business of the House I call the stand - in shadow Leader of the House — one Paul Holmes . may I please ask the Leader of the House to outline the forthcoming business ? I shall , and that be beautifully deliver . the business of the House for the week commence 5 May will include : Tuesday 6 May — general debate on the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe and victory over Japan . Wednesday 7 May — remain stage of the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] . Thursday 8 May — general debate on St George ' s day and english affair , follow by a debate on a motion on the research and treatment of brain tumour . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 9 May — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 12 May will include : Monday 12 May — remain stage of the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill . Tuesday 13 May — Opposition day ( 7th allot day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the Leader of the official Opposition , subject to be announce . Wednesday 14 May — consideration of Lords message on the great british Energy Bill , follow by , if necessary , consideration of Lords amendment . Thursday 15 May — general debate on solar farm , follow by a general debate on the long - term funding of youth service . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 16 May — private member ' Bills . I be delighted that the Leader of the House have give time for a general debate on VE Day . it be vital that we remember the sacrifice that each and every one of our community make through the loss of servicemen for the liberty win for each and every one of we . we will never forget they . if I may , I want to pay tribute to the parliamentary security and policing team . on Monday evening a friend and I , while on the Terrace , see a man enter the water outside from Westminster bridge . we run to report it to a police officer , who take we very seriously and immediately report it in . five minute later , emergency service locate the person and evacuate they . I thank the emergency service and that police officer , whose name I do not get , for act in a timely way . we wish the affected person well , as he be take to hospital . I be grateful to the Leader of the House for outline the forthcoming business . she will , I know , be look forward to the FA cup final on 17 May and will be cheer Manchester City on to victory against Crystal Palace almost as loudly as she heckle opposition politician here . I look forward to my team , Southampton , meet her team later on that month , although from our record I be not sure it will go too well . on the subject of own goal , I be sure member on both side of the House will be look on with some confusion at the chaos in the Government ' s rank follow the former Prime Minister Tony Blair ' s suggestion that the Government ' s plan to phase out fossil fuel in the short term be doom to fail . that election - win machine , at whose name many on the Labour Benches now groan at the simple mention of , have speak sense . of course , it can be frustrating when former leader weigh in on debate with contrary view to the party they once lead . believe I , I know how the Leader of the House and the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero feel — we have have more than our fair share — but the Government know that the former Prime Minister have a point . we know that the Government be dread the local election today , the first real test of their performance in the nine month since they take power . what will we see ? an ideological kamikaze dive towards net zero carbon emission that tonight will deliver gain of net zero seat . I pay tribute to candidate of all party who have take the step to put their head above the parapet and who be willing to charge into the political fray . without they , our democracy would wither . of course , I would like to wish those stand as conservative candidate all the good , and I hope the House will understand why I have do that . as voter go to the poll , they will be ask themselves what sort of council they want to represent they and provide vital public service for they and their family . do they want the high - tax , highly bureaucratic , debt - laden local authority of Labour , or do they want efficient , effective and accountable local guardian , which they have under the Conservatives ? let we not forget that conservative council deliver well service with low council taxis . we do not have to look any far than Labour - control Birmingham , where bin bag have pile up on the street , to get an idea of the monumental failure of this Labour Government so far . that be to say nothing of the rat , which not only represent a terrible health and safety threat to resident but terrorise the neighbourhood they infest . they will not be jump from any sink ship , but the Government ' s past voter certainly be . why be the Government ' s ship sink ? we need only look over at the Labour Benches to see who be to blame . after nine month of Labour Government , the promise of change have end up in the over - fill bin of the council they control . I will not argue that there have be some change . the Prime Minister have change his donor - fund Armani suit many time , while the pensioner that they have make poorer buy their clothe from the charity shop that this Government be tax to the hilt . talk of donor , a Labour donor be now become the independent football regulator . what a bargain for half a million pound . most important be not the change the Government have make , but the fact that the public have change their mind about Labour — and how can we blame they ? the Office for Budget Responsibility have halve its estimate for growth this year . with the Government ' s continued campaign against the elderly , farmer , the self - employ and small business owner , it be no wonder that the Government be so unpopular . they have run out of people to target . there be a saying that action have consequence . can the Leader of the House find time to schedule a debate to discuss the consequence of her Government ' s economic failure and the woeful action of their Chancellor ? growth be at all - time low . taxis and debt be at an all - time high . business and charity be alarmed at how they will keep go . can we have a debate on that mission for growth and how it be go ? I suspect the answer will be no . I want to raise one final topic with the Leader of the House , which I and other colleague have touch on previously : the long timeframe and poor - quality response to write correspondence and write question from member . as I be sure all member and the Leader of the House will agree , it be vital that we , as parliamentarian , be able to make representation to the Government and receive response to our query in a timely manner , with a reply that take full account of the question make . too many time now , member have have to raise in this Chamber the response time , or lack of response to their constituency inquiry . the number of write question be answer by this Government be down , and I have to say that the quality of response be deteriorate . I do hope she will take this up with her Cabinet colleague . as we go away for our bank holiday , I wish the Leader of the House and all member a restful weekend , with a chance to spend time with love one and , perhaps , put a call in to their Chief Whip . we will return on Tuesday , when we will continue to hold this Government to account for the people of this great country . I join the shadow Minister in thank the police and security service of the House for the work they do day in , day out , and particularly in the case he have raise . I take this opportunity to thank the King for all the work he be do for those live with cancer ; his openness about his own condition really do bring huge comfort to those live with theirs . I also take this opportunity to welcome progress on the mineral agreement between the US and Ukraine that be achieve overnight and the wide partnership . the support of the Government and of the whole House remain unwaveringly with those in Ukraine , and that will continue . I join the shadow Minister in thank all candidate stand in the local election today , and I thank he for wish Man City all the success I hope it will get in the forthcoming FA cup final , and against Southampton . it be really good to see the shadow Minister in his elevated place today , reach the heady height of business question this morning . I be sure he will agree that this be the pinnacle of his career so far . as you can see , Mr Speaker , he have really draw in the crowd . I be only joke ; the attendance be no reflection on he . his journey to this point have be — how shall I put it ? — one of dogged and determined pursuit . he be a councillor , I believe , when he be very young , at just 20 , and have be a special adviser . before come here , he stand in a number of seat ; in fact , in his relatively short parliamentary career , he have already be the MP for two different constituency . in all seriousness , I have a great deal of time for the hon . Gentleman , who be a formidable and notable representative of his party . it might be a bit of a low bar right now , but he be well above it . he really be a rise star of the party — wane ! he be a very popular Member of this House . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] there we be . the shadow Minister raise a matter that be very important to I : timely and full response to write parliamentary question and correspondence . I take this matter incredibly seriously and will continue , as always , to raise it with Cabinet Ministers , collectively and individually , when they fall short . the shadow Minister also raise the issue of net zero . I be sorry , give his glitter career , that he feel the need to read out from the late whip ' crib sheet on net zero . the blinker vision that the Conservatives have show on the opportunity of net zero and the transition that we need to make be why they do so little in their time in office . let we look at what be actually happen . the North sea basin be diminish ; it be a finite resource . that be why the workforce in the North sea have fall by a third over the past 10 year . there be a global race for the new technology of the future , and we be now in that race — something the Conservatives fail to do for many year . we be make sure that the North sea have the opportunity of the future , and there be some great opportunity . that be why we be set up great british Energy in Aberdeen and why we have announce £ 22 billion for carbon capture , which will be critical to the future of the North sea basin . it be also why we be look to reindustrialise the future with thing like hydrogen , nuclear and other energy . the shadow Minister mention the former leader of the Labour party , but he might want to look at what some of his own party ' s former leader have say in recent year . I think Theresa May speak very wisely last autumn , just as the Conservatives be perform a complete volte - face over net zero , when she say : " when the sceptic say that the green transition will cripple business , we say they could not be more wrong … when the critic say transition to renewable cost too much , we say it ' s wrong to see it as a cost . it ' s an enormous investment opportunity " . she be right , wasn ' t she ? he know she be . if the hon . Gentleman want to talk about the local election , I be sure that we can have an exchange of statistic , but the one that I will leave he with be that council tax bill for people live in Labour council be , on average , £ 300 low than elsewhere . that be the one thing that people should be think about today of all day . I do not want to be too harsh on the hon . Gentleman , because I be fond of he . have say that , we be now six month on from the Leader of the Opposition take up her position . today will be her first major electoral test , and I wonder how the Conservatives think thing be really go , because they have be veer from one side of the road to the other . they have be take just about every position possible . even on Monday , they vote against their own Football Governance Bill . they actually write it , and their poor , mortified shadow Secretary of State , who have previously call it an excellent Bill , have to put up the good act that I have see in a long time of speak against it from the Dispatch Box . the leadership of the Leader of the opposition be be backseat drive by the shadow Justice Secretary , who be on constant manoeuvre . he be no doubt spend the day on the phone — not to the elector , but to his future backer . he have promise this electoral pact with Reform , but the truth be that the two party be indistinguishable at the moment . I can not tell the difference between the once great Conservative party and the Reform party , because we all know that vote Tory today mean vote Reform and that vote Reform today mean vote Tory . Bagpipe music be undisputedly the fine instrumental music around . early this month , the 37 - strong Falkirk school pipe band , accompany by 30 dancer from the Denny high school ' s dance academy , participate in the Tartan Day parade in New York , commendably represent Scotland and Falkirk district . start less than three year ago , they have quickly develop into the pride of the town and the district . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate these immense young people and the community , parent and educator who make their immense performance in New York early this month possible ? I be delighted to hear about the bagpipe musician from my hon . friend ' s constituency go to New York . that sound like a really fantastic visit . I thank he for raise it here and join he in congratulate they on their endeavour . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I have a beautiful four - year - old black labrador call Shadow and one of my favourite thing to do , to get some exercise and clear my head , be to take she on a long walk . with the weather so gorgeous yesterday morning , I head to Hylands park , a stunning 574 - acre country park that straddle two constituency , include mine . it be run and maintain by Chelmsford city council park staff with the help of a small army of amazing volunteer . early in the morning , the only people we usually see be dog walker , so there be nothing unusual about hear dog bark in the distance as I meander through the wood . but it turn out that yesterday be no ordinary morning and the dog be bark because their owner , Rebecca , have be knock over in a canine encounter that have leave she with an obviously dislocate knee . another regular dog walker and I stay with Rebecca , distract she from the pain while we wait for the ambulance crew to arrive . I would like to state for the record today just how brilliant the paramedic and hazardous area response team — otherwise know as HART — be in help Rebecca . it be truly a privilege to observe close - up and at first hand as they put to use their vital skill and training : keep calm , administer much - need pain relief and eventually pop Rebecca ' s knee back into place . will the Leader of the House join I in acknowledge and thank the wonderful people work on the frontline of the East of England ambulance service and , indeed , all ambulance service across the United Kingdom as well as all the staff who support they , from the emergency service call handler right the way through to the trainee paramedic technician ? they support we in our hour of need , and we never know just when that hour be come . I thank the hon . member for pay tribute to all of those paramedic , the ambulance service and those on the frontline who come to our rescue at moment of need . she be right to raise and pay testament to they in this House . as the hon . Lady may know , my husband be an A & E consultant . I think people who work on the frontline in that way have a different mindset ; he often say that fix dislocated shoulder and knee be his favourite task to perform at work . I be sure the rest of we could not think of anything bad . today be election day , and a sunny day . I be sure that the hon . Lady , as a liberal Democrat , be look forward , as I be , to see picture of her leader make the most of the sunny day , perhaps by throw himself into a lake or river , or by dangle off a bungee rope . maybe he will even give we a song and a dance , or something else rather hilarious . I be pleased early this week to support labour ' s strengthen Football Governance Bill , which will put fan back at the heart of the game . will the Leader of the House join I and many other Luton Town fan in wish Matt Bloomfield and the squad all the good this weekend for their important match against West Brom , which will hopefully secure their championship place for next season ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in welcome and support the football regulator Bill . she be right that community like hers in Luton , and the many community represent across the House , strongly support the football regulator Bill , which will put fan right back at the heart of our national game , where they should be . that be why I be so surprised that the Conservatives , have really push and lead on the issue that the Bill address , at the last minute set their face against this important Bill . it be shocking and shameful . I also join she in wish Luton Town the very good in strive to secure their championship place when they play West Brom this weekend . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . in addition to the business that the Leader of the House have announce , on Thursday 22 May in the Chamber there will be a debate on access to NHS dentistry , which be a very popular subject among colleague . in Westminster Hall next Tuesday , there will be a debate on parking regulation ; it will start later in the day , due to our later hour in the Chamber . on Thursday 8 May , there will be a debate on cold and damp home , follow by a debate on the potential merit of Government support for small abattoir . on Tuesday 13 May , there will be a debate on the impact of church and religious building on community . on Thursday 15 May , there will be a debate on funding for Gavi , the Vaccine Alliance , and the Global Fund , follow by a debate on the right to maintain contact in care setting . on Tuesday 20 May , there will be a debate on pension for people live overseas . at the moment , we be run at more than five application a week , which we be add to our waiting list . by my calculation , give that we have five opportunity for Backbench Business debate on a Tuesday and Thursday in Westminster Hall , and two opportunity in the Chamber , those apply now will get a debate sometime from 17 November . can I urge colleague who be think of request a debate to get their request in early , particularly if they be time - sensitive ? we can then attempt to grant they . obviously , any extra time that the Leader of the House can allocate to the Backbench Business Committee would be warmly welcome . if she could give we an update on when estimate day debate be expect to take place , that would help we considerably in frame the debate . today be a glorious day , the first day of May . it be Maharashtra Day and Gujarat Day , which commemorate 1 May 1960 , when those two state be create . later today , after business question , member have the opportunity to join we to celebrate Gujarat Day in the Grimond Room in Portcullis House . I hope that the Leader of the House , and you , Mr Speaker , will wish all Gujaratis and Maharashtrians a very happy day as they celebrate their national day . some 37 % of my electorate emanate from Gujarat originally , so I be an honorary Gujarati and will celebrate with they today . I hope that the Leader of the House will join those celebration . I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee for , as ever , give we a full outline of all future Backbench Business debate . I look forward to we speak on Monday , when the right hon . Gentleman come to the Modernisation Committee to discuss the future of Backbench Business and how we can all ensure that Back Benchers continue to have the opportunity to raise the issue they want to in this House and elsewhere . I join he in wish everybody a happy Gujarat Day on the 65th anniversary of the creation of the state of Gujarat . I be sure that many colleague will want to go to the Grimond Room later with he . can we have a debate in Government time about how Ministers can back our brilliant mayor Richard Parker in create a mayoral development corporation in east Birmingham to build the east Birmingham tram ? under the last government , Birmingham lose £ 1 billion in support and be leave as Britain ' s capital of unemployment and child poverty . high Speed 2 could bring ten of thousand of job to change that situation , but the resident of east Birmingham have to be able to get those job . that be why we need wholesale regeneration and a mayoral development corporation . it would be good if Ministers show how they could support that . I join my right hon . friend in welcome the brilliant work of the Mayor of the West Midlands , Richard Parker . my right hon . friend will know about the importance of national transport infrastructure to our great city like Birmingham , and about the importance of make sure that we have local transport infrastructure , like tram . the tram network in Greater Manchester be a really fine example of that . unless we ensure that local people like his constituent can access the great job opportunity of the future through good local transport , we should not be endeavour to do these thing in the first place . I join he in want to see tram in Birmingham , and in particular in his constituency in east Birmingham . that would make a great topic for a debate . at the London marathon last weekend , my constituent Angus Leckonby from Octon near Driffield break not one but two world record : he become the young and fast man with an intellectual disability to complete a marathon — and he raise £ 11 , 000 for the Special Olympics in do so . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Angus on his incredible achievement , and ensure a debate in Government time on the future of disability sport in the United Kingdom ? I be delighted to join the hon . member in congratulate Angus on break two record — what a remarkable achievement — and on raise so much money for disability sport , and raise awareness , too . there be a reception in Parliament about this last week . the Government be commit to ensure that sport be accessible to all , and that we have flourish and fantastic disability and paralympic sport in this country . next week , resident will be turn out at event across Hertford and Stortford to mark the 80th anniversary of VE Day , and I be look forward to join they . as we approach VE day , will the Leader of the House join I in remember the service and sacrifice of those from Hertford and Stortford and across the United Kingdom who give so much for our freedom ? will she encourage as many of our resident as possible to support VE day event in our community ? I join my hon . friend in pay respect to and remember those who serve in the second world war . we will be celebrate VE day , as well as VJ Day , next week , in his constituency and right across the country . I thank you , Mr Speaker , for put on so many event across Parliament next week to ensure that every one of we can pay tribute to those who serve this country so well . property owner in my constituency , include the widow , the elderly and those with health issue , have be threaten with extensive court cost because permission to enter land on manifestly unfair term have be decline . the property developer have fail to properly explore cable ploughing , despite that method offer reduce cost , reduce biodiversity loss and a low carbon footprint . this week ' s report from the Institution of Engineering and Technology have evidence shortcoming : the cost comparison be incomplete and unreliable . do the Leader of the House agree that justice , not financial resource , should dictate the outcome of court proceeding , and that the developer in my constituency , Green GEN Cymru , should explore properly project - specific cost for alternative that carry community acceptance ? I be really sorry to hear about what the hon . member ' s constituent be go through . she be absolutely right to raise these matter in the House . I be sure that the property developer will have hear her call . she be right that what many of our constituent want in these circumstance be access to the law and access to justice , which be often deny , especially when it come to property right , and in contest , as she describe . I will raise the matter with the relevant Minister , and I hope that she get a full reply . fit , Fed , Fun camp be a Welsh Rugby Union project to keep child active , healthy and feed in school holiday . at Easter , Ospreys in the community deliver the scheme in partnership with the WRU , and over 600 child across 12 local rugby club in the region benefit . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Bidfood , Castell Howell , Tesco Llansamlet and High Street Car Boot Sale for provide the food , and congratulate the wonderful team at the Ospreys and the WRU for their commitment and enthusiasm in deliver those really successful project ? the Fit , Fed , Fun camp sound like a fantastic development in Wales . I understand that so far 31 , 000 child have take part across 450 camp , and that 6 , 000 pair of boot have be donate . what a fantastic achievement . they sound like great , fun camp . I join my hon . friend in thank the Ospreys , the WRU and all those involve in that project . early in the week , Mr Speaker , you grant an urgent question on the very serious issue of a music band who have allegedly tell their supporter , " the only good Tory be a dead tory . kill your local MP . " that be now quite rightly under police investigation . however , as of today , they remain on the bill for Glastonbury this year . will the Leader of the House reassure we that if the band remain on the bill , she will not attend , and that she will also discourage all her Cabinet colleague from attend ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that . those comment be incredibly serious , and be unacceptable when aim at Conservative or any other mps . I totally condemn they , and as do the whole House . we have all see what happen when comment incite and encourage violence against a Member of Parliament . it be deeply unacceptable and undermine our democracy , as well as put our life and our work at risk . that be why we all stand in solidarity against they . I be grateful to you , Mr Speaker , for grant the urgent question to allow member to air their thought on the issue early this week . on Glastonbury , I be sure that the festival organiser have hear loud and clear the comment make about the band . it be for Glastonbury festival to take that forward . however , I be sure that no one in this House would want to see they play at Glastonbury , and I be sure that we will all continue to say so , loud and clear . resident in the village of Roadhead and Stapleton in the northern part of my Carlisle constituency be recently devastate to learn that the post office counter service that have operate from their village hall for two hour a week be to close at just two week ' notice . those counter provide vital postage and cash service in a geographically remote part of my constituency — but the closure of mobile counter be not subject to the same consultation requirement as permanent branch . will the Leader of the House consider a debate on how the Post Office consult on the closure of those vital but mobile service , and on ensure that the same requirement apply as do for the closure of a permanent branch ? my hon . friend be right to raise that . it be important that constituency mp continue to stand up for local post office service in their constituency , as many have do in recent week . I do not think that Post Office Ltd have really be listen to those concern , whether in the case of permanent branch closure or the closure of service of the kind that my hon . friend describe . our constituent want access to those vital service , and it be really important that the Post Office remain accountable , transparent and responsive to the need of local community when make such decision . a constituent write to I recently about problem with the financial ombudsman . he wait month for it even to begin the investigation , and despite receive an apology for the delay , when he then have a subsequent related complaint , it again take week before he get any reply , and that be to say , " sorry , we can ' t begin to investigate the complaint . " he be not the only constituent who have write to I about delay in the operation of the financial ombudsman , which be leave people face severe financial hardship . could the Leader of the House arrange a meeting between I and the Minister to discuss how we can support the financial ombudsman and improve this situation ? I absolutely will arrange a meeting for the hon . member with the relevant Minister about the poor performance of the financial ombudsman , which I be sorry to hear about . I will also raise those issue directly with the ombudsman and the relevant Minister . as you know , Mr Speaker , the parliamentary archive be move from Victoria tower to the National Archives . I be fortunate to be part of the final tour yesterday lead by archivist Mari Takayanagi . in my constituency , our archive hold treasure such as letter from Bonnie Prince Charlie and King James VI , and they be a well - use and well - love resource lead by archivist Pam McNicol and her team . the University of Stirling have a wonderful archive as well , full of political item and other relate to the university . I be also wear the university ' s tartan tie today . archive and library connect we to our past and help shape our future . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on the importance of archive and join I in wish the parliamentary archivist well as they continue their big move and thank they for all they do ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the matter , and I be sure Mr Speaker hear his question as well , because it be something that as member of the House of Commons Commission we take a keen interest in . it be a huge project move these archive . I absolutely join he in thank the parliamentary archivist , his constituent and other in the great work they do in preserve these important archive for future generation . it have and will continue to be a big project for this House as we move forward , and I be sure that he will continue to take a keen interest in it . may we have a statement next week from the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland in which he can set out his compelling reason for proceed with the Henry VIII power of a remedial order to amend the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 when the Government have already make it clear that they plan to repeal and replace the Act ? I will certainly raise the issue with the Northern Ireland Secretary ; as the next Northern Ireland question be only a couple of week away , the right hon . Gentleman might want to raise the issue then . he be absolutely right that we be commit to repeal and replace the Northern Ireland legacy Act . we will do that in due course and , of course , alongside all those with an interest in Northern Ireland . in the meantime , we have to take step to put any issue right , and that be what the Secretary of State be do . across the country , homeowner be suffer financial and material harm as a result of unqualified tradespeople carry out work on family home and often botch it . many family across the country , not least in my constituency of Glasgow West , have suffer real hardship and worry as a result . as consumer protection be a reserved issue , would the Leader of the House consider give up Government time for a debate where solution to address the situation could be debate ? the hon . member be absolutely right that nothing be more frustrating and — quite honestly — upset for our constituent than have dodgy work do at home and have no recourse and accountability to those who do they . I will ensure that the Minister take a look at the issue she have raise . trading standard and ensure that we have quality TrustMark scheme across the country be important to this Government , and we will keep the House update . this week , an important report be publish on the topic of climate change — not the one by the formerly high - profile politician whose consultancy have do work for major fossil fuel producer such as Saudi Arabia , but the one publish by the Committee on Climate Change yesterday on adaptation . that report point out that this country ' s approach to adaptation be not work and need urgent strengthening , and that we be woefully unprepared for the reality of the impact of climate change , which be already with we and will get bad , especially if the flat - earther who seek to deny it and to change policy direction get their way . will the Leader of the House ask the Prime Minister to make a statement recognise the urgency of adaptation and commit in the spending review to the funding need to make the country resilient to the heat stress and flooding that will inevitably follow if we do not tackle the reality of the climate crisis ? I agree with the hon . Lady . the Climate Change Committee report be important and look back , for the most part , at recent year and the previous Government ' s record on these matter , which be not good enough . we absolutely need to go far and fast , which be what this Government be do , to ensure that we have those adaptation , make the transition to become a clean energy superpower , and develop the severe weather and flood resilience that our community need to cope with the impact of climate change , which be come anyway despite our good effort to get to net zero by 2050 . in the past few week , Cumbernauld have have two significant fire : a wildfire at Fannyside loch , which take two day to get under control — the night sky glow orange from the flame be visible 10 mile away in Glasgow — and a very different fire in a Lenziemill industrial estate unit , where there be a number of explosion and six people be injure . will the Leader of the House join I in thank all the firefighter involve in tackle the blaze , and might we have a debate in Government time on the increase danger of wildfire in our change climate ? that be a relevant question give the one that come before about the Climate Change Committee report publish this week . I join my hon . friend in thank the scottish fire and rescue service . yes , in winter the danger be perhaps flood , but these fire and wildfire be a stark reminder that , as we enter the summer month , wildfire be one of the symptom of climate change , and we need to support our fire and rescue service in tackle those issue , as well as take long - term step to reduce and minimise the impact of wildfire . thankfully , there be mostly consensus across the House on a two - state solution , but I be not sure that that consensus apply in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . there appear to be a slight emerge difference between the Minister for the middle east , the hon . member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , and the Foreign Secretary on the timing of the recognition of the palestinian state . the Minister say a few day ago that the recognition need to consider practical thing on the ground such as legal , governance and security , while the Foreign Secretary have suggest over the past 24 hour that recognition should come before a settlement on a two - state solution , so there seem to be some confusion . give the importance of the palestinian people have a stable and secure future without Hamas , may we have an urgent debate about the two - state solution , and will the Leader of the House assure we that , when recognition of a palestinian state come , we will have a full debate as well as a vote ? let I reassure the right hon . gentleman : there be no differ opinion on this in Government — we be as one . we absolutely want to see a two - state solution , which be the only - long - term political solution for the middle east , and that include a recognised and safe and secure long - term state of Palestine . as he say , get to that recognition will not happen overnight and be not totally straightforward . the Government be absolutely committed — it be in our manifesto — to recognise the state of Palestine . I will ensure that Ministers always come to the House , as they have be do , to update member on any development , with proper debate , statement and vote on these matter where necessary . last Saturday , Blackburn United ' s 2009 team play in the inspiresport Scottish Youth cup final against Dundee United ' s 2009s at Falkirk stadium . the Blackburn team have go from strength to strength this season , culminate in a fantastic win to bring home the cup . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the whole team on their stunning 2 - 0 victory and wish they all the good in future competition ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Blackburn United in her constituency and all those involve . we get a lot of football question at this time of year in business question , and I enjoy answer question about all the local football team . this Government be commit to grassroots football and ensure that we put fan and community back at the heart of our national game . a fundamental part of parliamentary privilege be the ability of the press to report proceeding in Parliament freely , so it be concern that the Independent Press Standards Organisation have give a ruling against the Telegraph for report comment make by Michael Gove — now Lord Gove — in this House regard the link between the Muslim Association of Britain and the Muslim Brotherhood . do the Leader of the House agree that this be a disturbing step for the freedom of the press , and will she urge the Culture Secretary to come to the House to reiterate that ? I thank the hon . member for raise that important matter . I read the ruling and the article by Michael Gove in the Telegraph early this week . we be absolutely committed to protect press freedom , protect parliamentary privilege and the right of member to raise matter in this House that could be subject to parliamentary privilege , and the press ' s right to report on those matter when they be raise in this place . as he say , the independent , self - regulatory IPSO have make this finding , but I will ensure he get a ministerial response . before other be successfully and bravely complete the London and Manchester marathon , Brian Innes , a math teacher at Queen Anne high school in Dunfermline , be complete the very difficult course of the Boston marathon in a little over three hour — a fantastic achievement , set a great example to his pupil . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Mr Innes on his achievement , wish he luck in the Berlin marathon , which he hope to complete later this year , and suggest way in which this House can influence policy that support increase physical activity ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Brian Innes on complete the Boston marathon in three hour , which be a remarkable achievement . I be not sure which be a great challenge : complete a marathon in that time or be a math teacher to many rowdy teenager , I be sure . I thank he for all the work he do . when the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer recently visit Mid Bedfordshire , they will have experience at first hand the lack of step - free access at Flitwick station . do the Leader of the House agree that this have be an issue for too many year across the country , impact not just disabled passenger but family and those with luggage ? will she join I and my constituent in call on Network Rail to deliver its step - free access plan much more quickly , and will she allow time for a debate or an update from the Secretary of State on this national issue ? absolutely — step - free access to transport be critical for our constituent and our community . the Access for all programme should be happen fast and well . that be why the Secretary of State be consider how we can ensure that the Access for all programme be deliver and that constituent such as those of the hon . member have step - free access to transport . I will ensure that the Secretary of State keep the House inform of development on this matter , which be raise with I regularly at business question . I echo the Leader of the House ' s comment early regard cancer . I recently visit Malcolm ' s Retreat , a lakeside lodge in a peaceful location , tuck away at Rookery Waters in my constituency . this be a new initiative by local charity the Malcolm Whales Foundation . the retreat offer respite care to those suffer with cancer and free wellbeing break for the medical staff who work in provide cancer care . I speak to Damien , whose father the retreat and charity be name after , and he explain the charity ' s wide fundraising effort . each summer , it hold the Dorset walk , a trek along the Jurassic coast for 500 child , which will take place this year between 11 and 13 July . will the Leader of the House congratulate Damien on the success of the charity , highlight the importance of resource such as Malcolm ' s Retreat in provide support for those affect by cancer and , if she so wish , volunteer to take part in the walk ? absolutely , and I pay tribute to Damien for all his fundraising effort , and for establish Malcolm ' s Retreat in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . it sound like a fantastic facility , which I be sure that those who have cancer or those condition , and their family , welcome . the Dorset walk in July , which be raise money for that important charity , sound glorious . I would love nothing more than a walk along the Dorset coast , so if I have time I will join he . if not , I look forward to hear about it , perhaps in future business question . last week I host a haematology workforce roundtable to understand the significant issue in that vital part of the NHS . it be understaffed , overwork , hamper by inefficiency , and 55 % of haematology consultant will reach retirement age by the end of this decade . will the Leader of the House seek assurance from the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care that haematology will be include in the national cancer plan , and will she grant Government time for a debate to address that impend NHS crisis ? absolutely , and I assure the hon . member that the Government ' s national cancer plan will consider workforce issue , particularly in relation those who be specialist in haematology and other area of cancer treatment . I will ensure that health Ministers and the Secretary of State be forthcoming to the House in develop that plan and the workforce plan that sit alongside it . I be sorry that Mr Speaker have just leave the Chair , because I want to commend he for host such a magnificent St George ' s day celebration in Speaker ' s House last week , on behalf of the Royal Society of St George , and on be the first Speaker to wear a red rise in the Chair on St George ' s day — a tradition that I hope we will all adopt . I be , however , disappoint that the debate secure by I and the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for St George ' s day be take two week to come to the Floor of the House , and I wonder whether the Leader of the House could explain that . I also wish to raise an issue on behalf of my constituent . the historic market town of Romford , like many town represent by hon . member across the House , have a proliferate and wholly disproportionate number of barber shop , vape shop , fishmonger and outlet that appear devoid of any custom . in Havering we have only one trading standard officer , which be simply not enough . something be very wrong with our high street , and my constituent be concerned and want action to deal with that . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time to discuss how we can tackle the grow epidemic of rogue trader and sham business that blight our community , and instead inspire people back to shop local again ? I join the hon . member in thank Mr Speaker for host the St George ' s day reception last week , and I be sorry that the debate that he and my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) have ask for could not be as near to St George ' s day as he might have like . as he will know , we have to schedule important government business last Thursday , in part because it be a short three - day week , which mean that the Thursday be more like a Wednesday . I be glad that the debate have now be schedule , and I wish the hon . Member and my hon . friend well with that . the hon . member raise the important matter of the future of our high street , and many of the issue that he see on the high street in Romford , which I be sure we can all relate to in our own community . he will be aware that the police and security service recently do a big blitz on business like the one he describe , which might be a cover for other activity rather than the activity they claim to be . that be a successful operation , and we hope to see more of that in future . this Government be commit to the future of our high street , look at reform business rate and other measure , so that we get good , long - stand , independent business back into the heart of our community . I call Jim Shannon to ask the final question . I thank the Leader of the House for all her answer every week . over 2 million people in Myanmar ' s Rakhine state be currently face severe food insecurity amid ongoing conflict and restrict humanitarian access . the World Food Programme have announce cut to food aid for over 1 million people due to a significant funding shortfall . in Bangladesh , over 1 million Rohingya refugee remain in overcrowded camp , include some 65 , 000 who have arrive since late 2023 . several key aid operation be at risk of suspension , and humanitarian condition continue to deteriorate across both country . what recent assessment have be make of the humanitarian need of Rohingya community in Myanmar and in refugee camp in neighbouring country ? will the Leader of the House ask the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office what step be be take to support the provision of food aid and other essential humanitarian assistance ? the hon . Gentleman thank I for my answer every week , but may I thank he for his question every week ? he be reliably here every single week — I do not think he have miss business question since I become Leader of the House . yet again he raise the important matter of the displace Rohingya community in Bangladesh . as I hope he know , the UK Government be the large provider of water , sanitation and hygiene facility for the displace Rohingya population . our humanitarian programme in Bangladesh be focus on meet basic urgent need of refugee , particularly the Rohingya community . if the Leader of the House will oblige , there be one more final question . I be back by popular demand . may I draw the House ' s attention to the fact that we have just be join in the Public Gallery by member of the Victoria Cross and George Cross Association ? will the Leader of the House join I in pass on our admiration , respect and thank to this extraordinary group of public servant from across the world , and to thank they for their redoubtable service to the nation ? I be delighted to do so and I thank the hon . gentleman for take the opportunity to draw our attention to their visit . I be sure the whole House will want to join he in thank the member of the Victoria Cross and George Cross Association for all the work they do and for their spirit of fantastic public service . we recognise and support that in this country , and I be sure member of the House will recognise that . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in response to my topical question early , the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the right hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , express his disappointment that I have not invite he to my constituency — in fact , I have never see he look so forlorn . I seek your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , on how I can correct the record and ensure that the Secretary of State and all hon . member know that they be welcome to visit my fabulous constituency . the hon . Member have put his point on the record . I can not ensure that the appropriate Minister will visit his constituency , but the whole House be now invite , no doubt on the same day , so I wish he well . Backbench Business Parkinson ' s Awareness Month [ relevant document : e - petition 713714 , increase funding for people with Parkinson ' s and implement the " Parky Charter " . ] I beg to move , that this House have consider Parkinson ' s awareness month . I extend my gratitude to the Backbench Business Committee for grant I this debate , and I thank hon . member for attend , especially give that local election be take place across some part of the country — I know the pull of the doorstep be strong for politician , as can be the power of persuasion from party boss and headquarters . I thank hon . member for support my application for the debate , include my hon . friend the Members for Aldershot ( Alex Baker ) , for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) and for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) , who be sadly unable to be here but who I want to mention . I also thank the current and former chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Parkinson ' s , my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) and Baroness Gale . I find it surprising and , to be honest , a little shocking that there have never be a full debate in this Chamber on Parkinson ' s , so I hope to lend my voice to the approximately 225 people in my constituency , and to the community of some 153 , 000 people across the UK , who be navigate life with Parkinson ' s , along with their love one and the dedicated professional who support they . yesterday conclude Parkinson ' s Awareness Month , but we must commit to do much more than simply raise awareness ; we must act . Awareness be not progress , and people with Parkinson ' s can no long afford to wait . Parkinson ' s be the fast - grow neurological condition in the world , ironically due mainly to people live long live and be diagnose in their later year . it be sometimes say that people do not die from Parkinson ' s , but the condition be life - limit , complex and relentless . it do not discriminate by postcode , profession , political affiliation or any other characteristic . it strip away not only physical ability , but voice , independence and identity . it affect not only those diagnose , but their love one in profound and lasting way . there be no cure , no treatment to slow or halt progress and no respite , yet there be hope . there be a path to change , and today I call on the Government and this House to walk that path with the urgency and compassion that the Parkinson ' s community deserve . when I be prepare for this debate , I be give a copy of a poem call " a Jump too Far " , by Bobbie Coelho , a Parkinson ' s UK campaigner who be diagnose in 2002 . I will read it out to put it on the record , because I feel that these word be important : " I wish you could jump into my shoe for just an hour or so to know just how I feel , for then you would know the truth about PD , as far as it go I wish you could jump into my shoe when my face freeze you can ' t understand when I talk ( I know it ' s not easy ) to hear I call a miserable cow how I wish I could talk happily as they ' re do now I wish you could jump into my shoe when I can ' t move across the floor . how I admire your movement , so easy and so free I just wish it could also be I I wish you could jump into my shoe when I can ' t walk down the street and get stare from the people that I meet I wish you could jump into my shoe when I can ' t do anything at all and , reluctantly , have to watch my husband do it all I wish you could jump into my shoe to see a future I don ' t want to see with no cure in sight and I know there never will be you hear about cancer there ' s advert all around but awareness of pd there ' s not a sound if you could jump into my shoe you would see how frightening pd can be " . the hon . Gentleman must be congratulate on bring forward this most important debate . the charity Parkinson ' s UK organise voluntary support group across the country — the near one to Gainsborough be in Doncaster , Brigg and Scunthorpe . do he think that the Government and local authority can do more to encourage people to volunteer ? voluntary action across the country be quite uneven , so that might be one step forward . the right hon . Gentleman have anticipate a point that I will make later , but I could not agree more about the need for volunteer support . increase the awareness of that volunteer support at the point of diagnosis be absolutely key , and I will refer to that later in my remark . I thank he for the intervention . I find Bobbie ' s poem so move because it reflect precisely what I hear in prepare for this debate , which I suspect colleague in the Chamber also hear , from constituent live with Parkinson ' s . I have be truly touch by the willingness and openness of those constituent , support by Parkinson ' s UK and Cure Parkinson ' s , to share their experience and story . they do so in the hope that their voice combine will be great than the sum of their part , and that together they can improve the journey for those follow in their footstep . the reality of live with Parkinson ' s can be harsh . although it be categorise as a movement disorder , it can affect movement , speech , swallowing and cognition . it can cause hallucination , depression and pain . for many , their condition fluctuate unpredictably throughout the day , so what might seem like a good morning can spiral very deeply into a challenging afternoon , and too many people still wait too long for a diagnosis . I draw the attention of the House to the Movers and Shakers , a group of people with Parkinson ' s whose outstanding contribution and production have be a beacon of support for those with Parkinson ' s . some of they be in the Gallery and will be familiar to many in this House , include Gillian Lacey - Solymar , Rory Cellan - Jones , Mark Mardell and Sir Nicholas Mostyn . I thank they for be here today . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech about this very complex condition . he mention Rory Cellan - Jones , who be well know as a BBC technology correspondent and , as the person who house Sophie from Romania , a famous dog lover . he be my constituent in Ealing . I totally agree with my hon . friend ; the " Movers and Shakers " podcast , which win the Broadcasting Press Guild ' s good podcast of the year award , have show with such humanity and warmth the up and down — a lot of down — of this very sad condition , which be grow . I assure the 153 , 000 sufferer in this country and the 10 million worldwide that today ' s attendance be a reflection not of the importance of this debate , but of electoral event outside this House . do my hon . friend agree that the Parky charter to encourage more research into this terrible condition that afflict so many , which rory lobby I quite often about , deserve Government funding ? I hope that my hon . friend the Minister on the Treasury Bench be also listen . if Rory have already tell my hon . friend a little bit about the Parky charter , she be about to get a repeat . on World Parkinson ' s Day , the Movers and Shakers group bring hundred of people with Parkinson ' s together in Old Palace Yard . those people sing with one voice , in a rework version of " I will survive " , their demand to have the Parky charter adopt . I will spare the House my singing voice , but that charter be a bold five - point plan back by the three major Parkinson ' s charity in the UK . it be not a wish list ; it be a road map to dignity , and I will take some time to outline those five demand . the first demand be for speedy specialist ; people refer for a possible Parkinson ' s diagnosis should see a consultant within 18 week and have annual review thereafter . the second be instant information ; a Parkinson ' s diagnosis should be accompany by immediate , clear and accessible information . the third be the Parkinson ' s passport , a tool to communicate patient ' need across all healthcare touchpoint . the fourth be comprehensive care ; every person with Parkinson ' s should have full access to a multidisciplinary team of specialist nurse , physiotherapist , and occupational and speech therapist . the fifth be the quest for a cure — a determined and fund national commitment to support Parkinson ' s research . these be not unattainable dream ; they be basic standard of decency , fairness and evidence - base healthcare . I will start with the first two demand , which be diagnosis and information . currently , neurology service in England be see only about half of patient within the 18 - week target , and the waiting list for neurology service now exceed 230 , 000 . the situation in Scotland and Wales follow a similar pattern of long waiting list . in my constituency , NHS Fife have a median wait for a first neurology appointment of 31 week , and nine out of 10 people be see within 87 week . in contrast , next door in Forth Valley — which be also part of my constituency — nine out of 10 people be see within just nine week . there be currently 1 , 836 people wait to see a neurologist in Fife , and 403 in Forth Valley . it can never be acceptable for a person ' s postcode to dictate the quality of care they receive . as part of my preparation for today ' s debate , I hear from someone who have be diagnose with young onset Parkinson ' s disease at the age of just 47 , just a few year old than I . he tell I that when his GP identify symptom , he be refer to his neurology service urgently — I underline the word urgently — and that the expectation from his GP be that " urgent " mean that he would be " see within day " . when he have not hear from the hospital five day later , he call to check that it have receive his referral , and be tell that the person at the top of the waiting list have be wait for 39 week so far — 39 week so far for an urgent appointment . do my hon . friend agree that await a diagnosis , and that shatter diagnosis when it eventually come , have a massive impact on not just the individual concern but their wide family , and that any action on this issue should be holistic and family - base ? that be exactly my response when I hear that story . I imagine what it must be like for someone and their love one to sit with a suggest diagnosis of something so serious and significant , have to wait nine month before even see a specialist for the first time . to I , it feel like a clash between bureaucracy and humanity . we can and we must push for well . the UK currently rank 44th out of 45 european nation when it come to the number of neurologist per capita . that be not a workforce issue or a bureaucratic issue — it be a sign of a systematic failure and a life - alter injustice . Parkinson ' s be a condition that can progress rapidly , and delay mean lose time , lose function and lose hope . however , the crisis do not end with diagnosis ; in fact , for many , that be when the sense of abandonment begin . nearly a quarter of people diagnose with Parkinson ' s report that they be not give adequate information about their condition . a similar number , as refer to by the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , be not tell about the support available through Parkinson ' s UK , the helpline , the care adviser , the group that offer peer support and the crucial service that can help people adapt , cope and find community . can you imagine , Madam Deputy Speaker , receive a life - alter diagnosis and be send home with no clear path , no specialist nurse , no appointment , no physiotherapist and no speech therapist — just a prescription and a sense that your life have fundamentally change ? that be not care ; that be neglect . again , there be hope . the Parky charter call for a Parkinson ' s passport , and it be possible that the foundation for that already exist in the pioneer Parkinson ' s connect programme . that programme allow clinician to refer patient directly to the full network of support that Parkinson ' s UK offer , from specialist nurse to peer support group , helpline and tailor advice . it be low - cost , high - impact and , crucially , scalable . when the Minister respond later in the debate , will she agree to meet Parkinson ' s UK to explore how Parkinson ' s Connect can be scale across the country ? it be the type of innovation that our health system need : solution that empower people and relieve pressure on the NHS simultaneously . the fourth strand of the Parky charter be comprehensive care . People with Parkinson ' s should not be lose in a bureaucratic labyrinth while their condition worsen . government across the UK could deliver a diagnostic pathway that guarantee access to a Parkinson ' s specialist within 18 week of referral — not occasionally , not when it be convenient , but every single time . that manageable goal align with exist National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guideline . I urge the Minister to consider that the NHS long - term workforce plan must deliver the neurological professional and Parkinson ' s specialist nurse that this country urgently need . we must remember that delay in diagnosis and care lead to irreversible deterioration , and the cost be not just human , but financial . Parkinson ' s cost the UK an estimate £ 3 billion a year , much of which be avoidable through well care and early intervention . I recently speak with a clinician who be emphatic in his view that people with Parkinson ' s need to be able to access specialist service easily . in turn , those specialist service need to be able to recognise when advanced therapy , such as apomorphine infusion , Produodopa and deep brain stimulation , may be helpful . critically , patient must be able to access they easily and equally . compare to our european counterpart , this clinician ' s view be that we do not use those advanced therapy as much as we should . despite there be no lack of ambition in Scotland , we be lag behind on intervention such as deep brain stimulation , which can be hugely impactful on people ' s quality of life . there be scope and there be hope to grow the provision for deep brain stimulation in Scotland , but we need to see urgent action , attention and focus to make that a reality . we can not talk about comprehensive care without acknowledge the dedicated but wildly overstretched workforce . our health professional do heroic work , but they be overstretch . today , we be 100 full - time equivalent Parkinson ' s nurse short of what be need . only 44 % of people with Parkinson ' s have access to occupational therapist , only 62 % have access to physio - therapist and just 40 % have access to speech and language therapist , despite the fact that Parkinson ' s affect speech and swallow so acutely . we must do well . the NHS across the UK must invest in this multi - disciplinary workforce that enable people with Parkinson ' s to live well . invest in the Parkinson ' s workforce be not just the humane thing to do , but the economically smart thing to do . we also need to make sure we be spend smarter in Scotland . it have be 14 year since the Christie commission talk about the urgency of reform for public service to make progress on preventive spend to improve outcome for patient . that commission be start by a different political party from my own , but it be absolutely the right thing to do , and its finding be welcome across the political spectrum . however , despite that work consensus , here we be 14 year later , still make the same argument for change . I hope that during her speech the Minister will confirm that the forthcoming NHS 10 - year plan will make a similar commitment on preventive spending , but with more of an outline about how we will deliver that change of funding priority , unlike the promise that we have see in Scotland . I will move on to talk about personal independence payment and the cost of live with Parkinson ' s . beyond the NHS , our support system be fail people with Parkinson ' s . the average person with Parkinson ' s incur extra cost of £ 7 , 500 a year , and when lost income be factor in , that rise to more than £ 22 , 000 annually . PIP be intend to offset those cost , yet Parkinson ' s claimant be 10 % more likely to be incorrectly assess than those with other condition . we know that the status quo of assessment and award for PIP be unfit for purpose and that reform be necessary . campaigner have welcome some of the move in the recent Green Paper publish by the Government . however , the Government ' s proposal to tighten PIP eligibility — for example , by require a minimum four - point score in one daily living category — would miss the big picture for people with Parkinson ' s , and could deny support to many who be profoundly affect by their condition and who rely on this working - age benefit to underpin the quality of their life . as part of that necessary reform , I urge the Minister to work with colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions to consider submission from organisation , include Parkinson ' s UK , in pursue reform of this break system . a labour model of welfare support should start from a position of consider the individual and be a system that embrace the principle of dignity , fairness and respect . let I draw my speech to a close on a note of hope from the charter ' s fifth demand : the quest for a cure . we stand on the brink of transformative discovery . we have scientist and there be momentum , but what we need now be fund . the UK be already lead the way in innovative research . the Edmond J . Safra Foundation ' s " accelerate clinical trial in Parkinson ' s disease " platform trial be host by University College London , and support by the National Institute for Health and Care Research and Parkinson ' s UK . it be a global first — a multi - arm , multi - stage trial that fast - track promise treatment . the Government have invest £ 4 . 6 million , which have leverage an additional £ 3 . 8 million in overseas funding and catalyse a £ 16 million programme , but I urge they to go far . a national registry , model on successful scheme in the US , could connect patient to clinical trial more effectively . well datum would mean well , fast and more inclusive research . we will not find a cure without involve people live with Parkinson ' s in trial , and they be willing . as one participant , Helen , put it to I : " you ' re not do it for you . you ' re do it for future generation . " the Government ' s £ 20 billion R & D pledge be welcome , but a condition that cost the economy £ 3 billion a year and affect more than 150 , 000 people can not remain under - prioritised . will the Minister commit to meet Cure Parkinson ' s and Parkinson ' s UK to discuss how targeted investment can turn hope into reality ? let I return to the voice that bring we here . the Parky charter be not a wish list ; it be a manifesto for dignity . its reasonable and fair demand offer we a clear and achievable path forward : speedy diagnosis , inform and empower patient , co - ordinate care , comprehensive support and determination that we will find a cure . these be not luxury ; they be necessity for dignity and survival . we owe it to those live with Parkinson ' s now , and to those who will be diagnose tomorrow , to act decisively . this be the moment when we can turn awareness into action , and pledge into progress . I particularly thank my office staff member Vonnie Sandlan , who not only bring this issue to my attention but conduct much of the research for my speech . she have educate I and , I hope , other about the importance of tackle Parkinson ' s effectively and in a co - ordinate manner , and allow I to hear some of the incredible story to which I have refer today . I look forward to hear the various contribution from member on both side of the House , and the Minister ' s response . I thank the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) for secure this debate and the Backbench Business Committee for allow it , and I also thank he for the eloquent way he address the issue . I do not think I disagree with he on a single thing . at the risk of repeat some of what he say , I will try to explain why I be stand here today . to be honest , because I have see the story of Michael J . Fox and Muhammad Ali , I be previously of the opinion that a huge amount of progress have be make in deal with Parkinson ' s disease . I be recently invite to meet people at the Parkinson ' s Caf é in Balsall common in my constituency , where I have a moment of clarity — as member of this House , we all go through such moment — and understand that there be a huge gap . there be about 30 carer and people suffer from Parkinson ' s , who speak about their condition eloquently and bravely . this be a really timely debate on a day when many of we will have demand on our time , give the local election , and it be a great privilege to speak . as the hon . Member say , Parkinson ' s be a hugely debilitate disease . although a disproportionate number of people get diagnose in their later year , there be no minimum age threshold , as we see in the case of Michael J . Fox — in fact , I think he be diagnose at the age of 29 . Parkinson ' s can lead to sensory issue , voice change , facial masking and , of course , movement issue . it really be a significant , life - altering condition , which obviously affect not just the individual but the people around they . I have be astonish to see the lack of care and support for people with Parkinson ' s , for which there a number of reason . the Parky charter have some reasonable and legitimate request , to which I certainly lend my support . I will work with the Government and support their endeavour in this area , because there be about 153 , 000 people in the UK who suffer from Parkinson ' s . we have a significant number across the borough of Solihull . I have the pleasure of meet Jane Lindsay , who be diagnose with Parkinson ' s in 2019 , and a lot of the thing that she tell I relate directly to the request in the Parky charter . after receive a diagnosis and leave hospital with her husband , Jane do not know anything about the disease . she say to I , " I just wasn ' t sure where this will all lead I . " there be a significant lack of support and information , so Jane , who have be in the teaching profession for almost 40 year and spend 17 year as a headteacher , decide that she be go to do something about it . with the help of local GP Sally Frank , she set up the Balsall Common Parkinson ' s caf é in 2022 — the date will not be lose on people , as it be at the height of covid . she find that be in touch with other sufferer of Parkinson ' s be a " lifeline " because , as the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar say when he recite a poem , she know people who walk in the same shoe and who share the same experience and concern . initially , there be only six member of the group , but it have now expand to at least 30 . they be very lucky , because they meet regularly in the church hall , where they get the facility for free . I commend the church for offer that support . Jane , her husband and GP Sally Frank , along with friend and family , have do an immense amount of work to raise awareness and fund . they have do charity walk , golf day , sponsor half - marathon , afternoon tea , ball , comedy night , quiz and croquet game . they have raise over £ 230 , 000 , which be really valuable . however , only four of the 30 people at the Balsall Common meeting that I attend have the support of a Parkinson ' s nurse , which show the sheer need for the specialist care that be require . the chair of the Solihull branch of Parkinson ' s UK , Martin Sewell , say : " this be a great opportunity for we to reach more people affect by the condition in the Solihull area with information and support " . he specifically thank the people of that Solihull village , who be able to meet in such a marvellous location at the heart of the community . I turn to the Parky charter . the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar mention the workforce , which be clearly a really acute issue . that be demonstrate by the fact that only four of the 30 people at the meeting have access to a relevant nurse . I would really welcome the Minister ' s reflection on how the NHS long - term workforce plan , which the Conservatives instigate when we be in government , will help to give more support to sufferer of Parkinson ' s . as the hon . Member mention , there be a significant lack of datum on Parkinson ' s . I try to get the figure for how many people in my constituency suffer from Parkinson ' s from the House of Commons Library . we be give the waiting list for neurology department , but the number of Parkinson ' s sufferer be not report or publish anywhere . that be a fundamental issue that I would encourage the Government to look at , and it should certainly be address at the very first instance . some 55 % of those wait for neurological referral wait more than 18 week , so a significant number of people have to wait for a very long time . those who , like Jane , have very little information be in effect leave to their own device to figure out the next step . I greatly support the Parkinson ' s passport , which the Parky charter call for , not least because it would provide instant access to a blue badge and to free prescription . this seem to I to be a logistical or operational need , so if a doctor be able to assess someone and say that they have Parkinson ' s , that should set the individual down a neurological pathway that allow this stuff to happen almost instantly . it be something that people with Parkinson ' s should not have to worry about . we know how debilitate the disease be , how people will deteriorate and that there be no cure — such individual be set down that path — so we should look to alleviate some of their concern . the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar mention PIP , and one of the thing raise with I at the caf é be the issue of reassessment and of have to go through all that again . if the reassessment be to see how the individual have deteriorate and what further support need to be give , that be different from have to go through the rigorous PIP reassessment to see if they be still entitle to it , which be really stressful for people who be already in a very stressful situation . I would greatly support anything that can be do about that , because PIP , certainly in this instance , be a basic lifeline to maintain a level of wellness . I would be interested to hear the Government ' s thinking , because while there have be a lot of talk about PIP encourage people into work , we know that these people be only go to deteriorate , so what support can be give ? the real question here be about research and development . I know that the Government have commit £ 20 billion to R & D funding , but I would be interested to know what their thinking be about support the treatment of Parkinson ' s . the hon . Member mention this , and I join his call for more funding in this field . I do not realise that a lot of the treatment be develop 50 or 60 year ago and that there have be very little progress since , so I would very much support any increase in funding . my remark have be limit because the hon . member go through the issue comprehensively , and I thank he for do so . to steal one of his line , the Parky charter be really a manifesto for dignity . probably all of we across the House would agree that we do this job to help the most vulnerable , so if we can make change to give these individual dignity , I will certainly support they . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) for secure this important debate . Parkinson ' s UK tell I that there be about 230 people live with the condition in my constituency of Stirling and Strathallan . across Scotland , almost one in six people with Parkinson ' s be under 65 and one in three be over 80 , which be a reminder that this condition affect people of all age . one of those people be my constituent John Lange , who be diagnose in 2006 at the age of just 43 . in 2012 , John co - found the Forth Valley Young Parkinson ' s group as a space for people of work age to share experience and support one another . in 2014 , John and his wife , Anne , open a small fundraising shop in St Ninians . over the last decade , that shop have grow into a well - know charity business in Stirling city centre , raise thousand for Parkinson ' s UK and Parkinson ' s research . it ' s call Something Old Something New , and I would encourage anyone visit Stirling to drop by Murray Place and see the brilliant work John and Anne be do . Parkinson ' s be a condition that affect not just the body , but a person ' s independence , confidence and ability to stay connected , so while treatment be crucial , have the right support network in place matter just as much . Parkinson ' s UK support over 45 local group across Scotland and work with more than 300 volunteer . these group provide everything from exercise and dance class to singing and art session , help people to stay active and feel part of a community that understand what they be go through . in Stirling and Strathallan , we have see that community spirit in action . MXP Fitness , a local gym , run box session design specifically for people with Parkinson ' s , with support from Parkinson ' s UK ' s physical activity grant programme . these session , lead by former Stirling Albion player Craig Comrie , be all about building strength and mobility in a safe and support way . as Craig put it to the Stirling Observer recently : " no - one be get knock out … no one be Tyson Fury ! " however , the benefit be real , and the feedback have be overwhelmingly positive . for those who prefer football to boxing , the Stirling Albion Foundation have just launch a new walk football session for people live with Parkinson ' s . hold on Tuesday morning , the session promote movement , co - ordination and connection . from what I hear , there be a lot of laughter , too . I want to thank the team at Stirling Albion not just for this new initiative , but for their wide work across the community . I also wish they a very happy 80th birthday in 2025 . these activity — the boxing , the football , the local fundraising — be all example of how community be step up to support those live with Parkinson ' s . it be uplift to see such creativity and compassion at a local level , and I know that be replicate in community right across the United Kingdom . I want to mention a remarkable local figure , my constituent Kay Mair . this year mark the 35th anniversary of Parkinson ' s nurse , whose specialist knowledge and experience make a huge difference to patient and family . Kay be one of the long - serve Parkinson ' s nurse specialist in Scotland , have work in the field since 1996 . she be NHS Forth Valley ' s lead nurse for Parkinson ' s and a found member of the Alliance of Scottish Parkinson ' s Nurse Specialists . last month , she be invite to St James ' s Palace for tea with the Duchess of Gloucester in recognition of the incredible work she have do for nearly three decade . Kay be exactly the kind of specialist nurse we need more of , which be why investment matter for the treatment of Parkinson ' s and for the NHS in general . in England , the Labour Government commit almost £ 26 billion to the NHS in the recent Budget , and that be already start to make a difference . since the election , there have be an additional 3 million appointment , with waiting list fall by nearly 50 , 000 in deprive area , which be help people get back to work , back to their life and back to health . in contrast , in Scotland , despite a record Budget settlement , one in six scot be wait for care and over 100 , 000 have wait for more than a year . these be not just number ; they be our neighbour , friend and constituent who be leave in limbo by a system that need urgent attention . nhs staff across Scotland be do their good , but they be be let down by a lack of strategic leadership and long - term planning by a poorly perform SNP Scottish Government . while the challenge be real , so too be the determination of community across the country to meet they . I pay tribute to Parkinson ' s UK for the incredible work it do , not just in support people and raise awareness , but in campaign for well service and lead research into a cure . I also thank all those work behind the scene , such as the researcher strive for breakthrough , the nurse deliver expert care and the many volunteer bring energy , kindness and hope to their community every day . I also want to recognise the thousand of individual who raise money by undertake personal challenge all around the country and internationally . my constituency Kim Somerville from Auchterarder have recently return from an eight - day trek across Costa Rica , which have raise more than £ 3 , 000 for Parkinson ' s UK . Parkinson ' s may be a tough diagnosis , but thank to people like John , Anne , Kay , Craig and Kim , and the team at Parkinson ' s UK and all the staff in our NHS , no one have to face it alone . together , we can build a future in which everyone affect by Parkinson ' s feel support , empower and hear . first , I thank the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) for secure this important debate . I agree with everything he say in his excellent speech , except for one small thing . give the importance of the topic , I be shocked to find that the last time Parkinson ' s be debate be in 2017 . my researcher may be wrong on that point , but that be what I be lead to believe . I hope this discussion be of such a calibre that it will make up for the long time since we have that debate . all my remark today be entirely in the spirit of cross - party co - operation . I have no intention whatever to make any cheap party political point , either in relation to the UK or to Scotland . I have a career in health and social care of more than 30 year , 17 of those as a commissioner and a regional director . I have to say , to my eternal shame , that Parkinson ' s rarely get a look - in when we look at physical disability and sensory impairment . of course it do , but not to the extent that it should have . I pay tribute to those who be live with Parkinson ' s and to their family . as have be say , the condition affect around 153 , 000 people in the UK , include at least 257 people in my constituency . I also pay tribute to the volunteer who do tireless work to support people live with Parkinson ' s . Parkinson ' s UK do incredible work to support those across the UK and in my constituency , where it run support group in both Peterhead and Fraserburgh . Tasha Burgess from Parkinson ' s UK have do amazing work , particularly for I today , and I know that she might consider extend the work of those support group to Banff , Macduff and Buckie in the western part of my constituency . the group be vital to deliver support in the community . just know that there be a support network nearby of people go through the same thing , staff by knowledgeable volunteer , make such an incredible difference to people go through what can be the hard time of their life . research have be mention . it be right that research funding go to area such as cancer , diabete and motor neurone disease , but sadly Parkinson ' s be the poor cousin in that regard . the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar point out that it be the fast - grow neurodegenerative condition in the world , yet Parkinson ' s UK tell I that there be no treatment to stop or slow down the condition , only to deal with the symptom . that be something that this Parliament must address . I want to focus mind in the Chamber today on how the benefit system treat people live with Parkinson ' s . many member have already raise concern about change to PIP eligibility announce by the UK Government in March . it go without say that the change may have a severe and negative impact on those live with Parkinson ' s . that can be contrast against the adult disability payment introduce by the Scottish Government , which replace PIP . People with Parkinson ' s and those involve in the application process have report that the adp assessment be much more accurate and compassionate than that for PIP . importantly , the adp application use paper - base evidence , as oppose to an in - person assessment , which be report to poorly serve those live with Parkinson ' s . the issue of face - to - face assessment stem from neither assessor nor the criterion be able to capture the reality of a condition that fluctuate as heavily as Parkinson ' s . I be sure the Minister be pay attention to I , but I be aware that when the work capability assessment be drop from universal credit assessment , the Westminster Government do not communicate that to the Scottish Government . I be hopeful that go forward there will be a well level of communication between the government in that regard . in March 2023 , the Work and Pensions Committee , report on health assessment for benefit , state that " when the Scottish Government publish its plan evaluation " — on adp — " DWP should learn from the result and consider what change , if any , it should make to its benefit assessment . " I would be keen to hear the Minister ' s thought on that in her closing remark . the principle embed within our welfare system should be a matter of principle for all mp . we need to prioritise system that treat people with the dignity and respect they deserve . there be an opportunity to learn from the Scottish Government ' s approach to disability benefit . I strongly encourage the UK Government to consider replicate our approach in Scotland to deliver well outcome for those live with Parkinson ' s . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) for secure this important debate and for his eloquent speech . there be not a word that I would disagree with . as he describe , Parkinson ' s be the fast - grow neurological condition in the world and around 153 , 000 people live with the condition in the UK . in April , we mark World Parkinson ' s Day and Parkinson ' s Awareness Month . as part of Parkinson ' s UK ' s event here in Parliament , I have the opportunity to hear directly from people affect . I be especially grateful to Angie , from Parkinson ' s UK , for take the time to share her experience with I , and discuss how we can improve care and support for people live with Parkinson ' s disease . it be for people like Angie in Hertford and Stortford that I want to contribute to today ' s debate . for I , as I know will be the case for other hon . member , it be personal . through the experience of friend and love one , I have see at first hand the impact of a Parkinson ' s diagnosis . I would like to briefly share their story today . first , the mum of one of my close friend be diagnose with Parkinson ' s in 2018 , a person whom it would be no exaggeration to describe as one of the warm , kind and most generous people you could meet — the kind of mum who make you feel like part of the family and always insist you stay for dinner . she , too , have benefit hugely from the Movers and Shakers group . with the support of Parkinson ' s UK , she and a group of friend — all working - age people diagnose with Parkinson ' s — set up the Herts Parkinson ' s wellbee directory . work with the NHS and other local organisation , their work ensure that Hertfordshire resident diagnose with Parkinson ' s can quickly and easily find information and access local support to help they manage their condition . resident can access their directory by visit hertfordshire . parkinsonsuk . group . I thank they for their inspirational work support other with their diagnosis . I also want to talk about Andy . when I first meet Andy , he be introduce to I as the husband of my local Labour party ' s long - stand — or perhaps long - suffer — election agent , Brenda . I be about 19 at the time , stand in a local council election , in what use to be true blue Hertfordshire , that I be destine to lose . little do I know just how important Andy and Brenda would be to I by the time I be elect to this place in July last year . in so many way , I would not be stand here today as the Member of Parliament for Hertford and Stortford be it not for Andy and Brenda . when I be prepare for this debate , I reflect on the fact that I could not pin down when or how Andy have tell I about his Parkinson ' s diagnosis . that be a testament to Andy ' s innate ability to turn topic that other might find difficult to discuss into everyday conversation — indeed , I learn much about myself through simple conversation while travel from visit to visit with he during the general election — but it be also a testament to his willingness to speak openly about his Parkinson ' s , break down the stigma for other with a diagnosis , and know that it do not define he and that it can make it easy for other to talk about their condition . today , Andy Pellant be not just a mentor to I , but a friend . it be my privilege to put his name on the record in this debate . I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to Julie Walker , who have be write she regular " parkinality " column in our local newspaper , the Bishop ' s Stortford Independent , for the past seven year to help people to well understand life with Parkinson ' s . diagnose aged 44 , every year Julie do something to mark Parkinson ' s Awareness Month in the hope that a cure will be find and that there will be no need for another . this year , Julie have compile all the poem she have write about live with the condition into a book , with the proceed go to Parkinson ' s UK and Cure Parkinson ' s . I encourage everyone in Hertford and Stortford , and in this Chamber , to support her work . I would like to take this opportunity to highlight some of the positive work be do in our community to support those live with Parkinson ' s . I be really pleased to read this week that everyone Active be partner with Parkinson ' s UK for the fourth year run to provide resident with Parkinson ' s with free fitness membership . that mean patient in our community will be able to access gym facility , swimming pool and exercise class at Hartham leisure centre in Hertford and Grange Paddocks leisure centre in Bishop ' s Stortford , alongside up to three of their carer . I encourage any resident in Hertford and Stortford live with Parkinson ' s to take advantage of that support . I welcome the work that this Labour Government be undertake to deliver the 10 - year health plan for England , which will radically reform how people in Hertford and Stortford with long - term condition like Parkinson ' s be treat on the NHS . with hundred of thousand of patient in England still on the waiting list for neurology service , and almost half wait for more than 18 week to start their treatment , I similarly welcome how the elective reform plan will help to deliver more neurology appointment every year . no one should lay awake at night worry that their condition be get bad while they wait to see a specialist . by provide extra appointment , scan and operation in the evening and at weekend , I know this Labour Government will clear the backlog for neurology appointment . however , we can go far , and I do have a few policy question I would like to raise ; I would be grateful if the Minister could reflect on they in her response . first , as other hon . member have say today , a number of resident have write to I call on the Government to implement the five step set out in the Parky charter , which my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar set out eloquently . the point around speedy specialist , instant information , a Parkinson ' s passport , comprehensive care and a quest for a cure be incredibly important . I will touch on the Parkinson ' s passport , because a number of constituent have write to I raise the matter of free prescription , to which people with Parkinson ' s be entitle in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , but not in England . support by major Parkinson ' s charity , delivery of the charter would help to deliver timely diagnosis , comprehensive care and dignity for all those live with Parkinson ' s disease . I know the Minister take these matter incredibly seriously and will have read the charter in detail , so I would be grateful if she could share what consideration she have give to it in her response . when I speak to Andy ahead of today ' s debate , he highlight how almost everyone he have meet with a Parkinson ' s diagnosis recognise that with the benefit of hindsight , the sign of their condition be present year before they be diagnose . have the Minister therefore consider the potential benefit of a national education programme to help people to identify the early sign of Parkinson ' s disease ? I know that hon . member across the House will have their own experience or will have know someone with Parkinson ' s disease . we have hear many move speech today , and I be sure we will hear more . the unity show across the House today in support of those live with Parkinson ' s and in support of find a cure be to be commend , and I be grateful for the opportunity to have contribute to the debate . I thank the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) for lead the debate with such an emphatic and detailed speech . I also thank his staff for ensure that all my office staff have access to the most up - to - date information on our constituency ; there be something the hon . Gentleman know about my constituency that I do not know until his staff send I that helpful information . it help we all to consider the issue . Parkinson ' s be a devastating condition that impact thousand across the United Kingdom . I be pleased to be here to support this debate and to speak on this subject , which be a big issue in my constituency ; more people be move to live in my constituency , who — by and large — be of a certain generation , and because of that , be more susceptible to Parkinson ' s , with other complex need . I want to speak specifically about PIP , which be a big issue for I and my staff ; I have one staff member who do nothing else most of the time . it be always important to I to represent my constituent , and , as DUP health spokesperson , these issue be very close to my heart . we all know someone who have Parkinson ' s , whether it be a family member , a friend or someone else , and represent that be half the battle to achieve change . we have hear figure outline the scope of this issue across our country . to give my local perspective , some 4 , 000 people have be diagnose with Parkinson ' s across Northern Ireland , and the majority be age 70 to 89 . in my constituency , we have 229 people suffer with Parkinson ' s . the most recognise impact of Parkinson ' s include tremor , bradykinesia , instability and stiffness . People with Parkinson ' s can feel freeze cold nearly all the time , even when the rest of we feel warm . there be also many non - motor symptom that people with Parkinson ' s will face , include fatigue and cognitive change . I be pleased to attend Parkinson ' s UK ' s parliamentary drop - in early this month , where it be great to discuss the personal independence payment and how the change will relate to people with Parkinson ' s . I have also submit numerous parliamentary question on the matter , high - light the real scope of the issue . I have be contact by many constituent express their concern for family member who have the disease . Parkinson ' s UK have reveal that people suffer from the disease incur extra cost of some £ 7 , 500 per annum on average ; when loss of earning be factor in , that figure can rise to £ 22 , 000 . personal independence payment be therefore crucial to help with the additional cost that come with this sickness . PIP be not an incentive not to work — I get really quite annoyed when I hear people say that . People want to work , but sometimes their disability restrict they from do so . PIP be not mean - test , and be unrelated to a person ' s employment status . the suppose change that have be discuss be that people will be eligible only if they score four or more point in one category , which will directly impact so many people who suffer a wide range of issue stem from their illness . I have real concern about the proposal that Government be look to bring forward . as the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) have refer to previously , people with Parkinson ' s be on average 10 % more likely to be inaccurately assess for PIP at the mandatory reconsideration stage than claimant with other condition . that be shocking . when someone with Parkinson ' s make a PIP application , the person who look at it need to understand the condition . my office win almost 70 % of all our mandatory reconsideration and appeal . that be not a criticism of people , by the way — it be an observation , which tell I there be something wrong with how the application be look at . clearly , there be a call for social security provision , especially for people with Parkinson ' s , which be be overlook . I urge the Minister to look at this matter together with the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . as always , that be mean as a constructive comment . , I be a strong supporter of invest in research . base at queen ' s University Belfast , Parkinson ' s @ NI be a collaborative hub that connect researcher , healthcare professional and the local community . such hub be crucial in help to improve the quality of life for people with Parkinson ' s . More funding will enable research in digital modernisation and make a pivotal mark on brain health research . there be so much work to be do . if we can all work together , we can do more to find a cure for disease such as Parkinson ' s . for Parkinson ' s Awareness Month , let we do all we can to support and progress well opportunity for people . I strongly urge the Minister to look at the issue around benefit and social security in particular . I look forward to work closely alongside colleague across the Chamber , and Ministers , to lobby for more change and for well provision for people with Parkinson ' s . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) for secure this vital debate , for speak so eloquently and for highlight the work we still have to do and the shortcoming we still have to overcome . I also thank member across the Chamber for make such moving and powerful speech to make the point that we must do more . every hour , two people ' s life be forever change by a Parkinson ' s diagnosis . that be some 18 , 000 man and woman every year receive a diagnosis that cast a shadow over their future . one of those people be my constituent , Jagdeep — a husband , a father , a son , a brother . he share with I that when he receive his diagnosis , he break down right outside the hospital . jagdeep be a strong personality with strong physical attribute , with a black belt in karate . he grow up in the east end and be tough as nail , but Parkinson ' s break he down that day . Parkinson ' s Awareness Month provide a precious opportunity to raise awareness about these personal battle , to discuss how we can support our constituent with the disease and to spotlight the resilience of those with Parkinson ' s . today , I wish to share Jagdeep ' s story . although Jagdeep ' s initial diagnosis be overwhelming , he tell I how his faith anchor he and give he the courage to turn this challenge into a mission of Seva , a Sikh principle of selfless service . in 2022 , he raise £ 15 , 000 for Parkinson ' s UK , climb Mount Kilimanjaro with his daughter . two year later , he trek the Annapurna circuit in Nepal , and , most recently , he travel to Uganda to support those with Parkinson ' s . he have achieve great feat abroad . at home in Ilford he have achieve something even great : he have build a community for those live with Parkinson ' s . have teach martial art for 35 year , he launch the Dopamine Warriors box Club , a free weekly boxing class design specifically for those with Parkinson ' s . exercise such as boxing have be prove to slow down the progression of Parkinson ' s . for the nearly 50 attendee come to his class from across east London , Jagdeep ' s club have prove a lifeline . attendee come from all walk of life , background and ethnicity . these class have become a space without stigma — a space where have tremor do not set people apart , and a space where people can connect with one another . I have one story that particularly move I . Jagdeep mention that a new attendee arrive at the class in a wheelchair as a result of his symptom . by the end of his first session , he leave the class on his own two foot . the camaraderie in the class give he the encouragement that he need to be able to stand up . I be glad that part of the Labour Government ' s 10 - year plan for the NHS be shift care into the community . in his own corner of the world , Jagdeep be make that vision a reality . his class demonstrate that although we may not yet have a cure for Parkinson ' s , we do have the ability to improve people ' s live now , by build space , like the boxing club , to provide people with a sense of belong , community and encouragement . we owe it to Jagdeep and to every other person battle this disease to match their courage with our action — by fight for our NHS , by invest in our community care , and by ensure that , regardless of a cure , no one face Parkinson ' s alone . I wish to thank my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) for secure this debate , which have be incredibly powerful and impactful . I also wish to thank the hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) for share that incredibly powerful and emotional story of Jagdeep ' s journey . I be sure that be something that will remain with many of we today . I also thank my constituent who write to I to share their personal story . it be often not easy to reach out to someone whom we do not know and whom we have never meet before and share the most painful aspect of our life . like my hon . friend , I be shocked and surprised to hear that Parkinson ' s have never be fully debate in this Chamber — in 2017 , there be an Adjournment debate on young - onset Parkinson ' s — but we be right that record today . across the UK , 153 , 000 people be live with Parkinson ' s , more than 13 , 000 of whom be in Scotland . the condition often come with a range of complex condition , as we have hear , affect speech , mobility and sleep . some 30 % of those live with Parkinson ' s also have dementia , which greatly impact their care need , yet far too many go without any information on the support service that be available after their diagnosis . both those with Parkinson ' s and their caregiver experience a long and complex care journey , which all too often isolate they from society . we have already hear today about the significant and harrowing impact that that can have on mental health . the experience of Parkinson ' s disease be heartbreaking for we to hear about today , but it be even more difficult for those who have to deal with it and live with it , day in and day out . when I think of Parkinson ' s , I recall someone whom I once know many year ago . his road to diagnosis be long . he be a young man , a bowler , and be at the heart of his club both on the green and in the clubhouse . but it become clear that something be very wrong as he start to stumble and struggle to walk . that often lead to hush whisper of concern as to what could possibly be wrong in someone so young . he be unaware of what be cause the change to his body , impact his mobility and co - ordination and , as a result , participation in the sport and the sporting community that he love . these be in fact the early sign of young - onset Parkinson ' s , the symptom of which can easily be misattribute to other illness . young - onset Parkinson ' s impact one in 20 of those live with the condition . I see at first hand how a lack of awareness of Parkinson ' s symptom and young - onset Parkinson ' s can cause anxiety , confusion and distress and can result in delay in seek help . this just highlight how important it be to have well - fund and comprehensive medical and community support for those live with Parkinson ' s , but , unfortunately , these story be not unique . from constituent email we with their worry and personal story from friend and family , we each know how devastating this disease can be . across Scotland , the situation be dire . the wait time for diagnosis be deeply distressing , and over half of Parkinson ' s patient in the Borders , Ayrshire and Arran experience wait of over 48 week . in my constituency , cover by Forth Valley NHS board and NHS Lothian , wait time can be as long as 24 week for more than a quarter of patient . these waiting list lead to delay diagnosis , leave many people struggle alone and without help . the symptom can be frightening , and demand dedicated support . it be imperative that the Scottish Government get a shift on . they need to use the record - break settlement from this Government to start to tackle those wait time , bring clarity to people at a time of great uncertainty and deliver the support that they need , because the condition go beyond the physical . I welcome this Government ' s investment to bring down neurology waiting list to speed - up diagnosis time , but we can not rest on our laurel because there be too much work to be do . by invest in research , improve healthcare access and foster a supportive community , we can offer hope and improve the quality of life for many . as mp , msp , and local representative , it be our duty to ensure that those live with Parkinson ' s disease and their family have access to the good possible care and support . we must recognise that key milestone have be achieve by campaigner and research scientist to alleviate the pain and isolation cause by the condition . we must continue to raise awareness about Parkinson ' s disease , reduce the stigma and ensure that those affected feel hear , understand , and support . the public awareness raise in recent year be so important to those face year ahead with this disease . they must know that they be not alone and where they can access help . I would like to share my gratitude for and commend the work of Parkinson ' s UK , which have be invaluable . we have hear much today about its fantastic work across the country . I would also like to recognise the advocacy of Billy Connolly and his bravery and honesty in talk about his diagnosis and his life with Parkinson ' s . he have show his characteristic ability to broach even the dark of subject with humour , and he have that cut - through that can often be very difficult for some of we politician to achieve . he have spark a much - need conversation . thank to the event recently organise by my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar , I have the pleasure and privilege of meet Dave Clark , former tv sport presenter and fierce advocate and successful fundraiser for Parkinson ' s UK . he take the time to speak to I about the unpredictability of his condition and how it can change on a daily basis . we need to take these personal testimony into account when consider any change to the welfare system . Dave ' s experience reinforce the point we have hear today . finally , I be glad that this debate could take place in the Chamber , as the centre of our democracy . in this House be where support for those live with Parkinson ' s must be the loud . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) on secure this important debate at the end of Parkinson ' s Awareness Month . I would like to begin by pay tribute to my old friend and former colleague Margo MacDonald , SNP Member of this House briefly in the 1970 and Member of the Scottish Parliament for the SNP and as an independent from 1999 until her death in 2014 . anyone who know Margo will remember that she be a force of nature and that anything she do be do with her typical determination , wit and good humour . I credit Margo with my limited understanding of Parkinson ' s and its variability , because for all the time she be in the Scottish Parliament she have Parkinson ' s , but it do not stop she be one of the most effective communicator and advocate for her constituency . in my constituency , some 222 people be believe to be live with Parkinson ' s as we speak . I want to thank those who care for they — professional , family member and volunteer alike — for their hard work and commitment . as we have hear , there be no cure for Parkinson ' s , and current treatment can manage only some of the symptom . it can be a frightening disease , and one that can lead to depression and despair . in Scotland alone there be approximately 30 new diagnosis every week . in 2024 , Parkinson ' s UK in Scotland produce an excellent report call " Scotland can ' t wait " . in the report , Parkison ' s UK in Scotland highlight the many challenge that people with Parkinson ' s currently face and the problem that will arise if the challenge of the increase number of people be diagnose be not address . the report draw on experience and robust datum and make some very important point . it highlight that invest in professional staff who can offer the kind of specialist treatment that people with Parkinson ' s need would be an important step forward . exist staff be already stretch , and if action be not take soon they will be push to breaking point . ensure that people get the appropriate medication when it be need , whether they be in hospital or at home , be also vital . crucially , the mental health impact of Parkinson ' s need to be address , include Parkinson ' s dementia , which can be frightening for patient and their family . a recent freedom of information request reveal that since the year 2020 , less than half a million pound be spend by the Scottish Government on research into Parkinson ' s disease . by my calculation , that be something like £ 34 per person suffer from the disease in Scotland . that seem to I to be a woeful amount of money . I recognise that the effort to find a cure for Parkinson ' s will inevitably have to be a global exercise , and one that this government , I be sure , will want to play a large part in . but everyone have to get their act together and up their game , include the Scottish Government . at the end of the day , we want to find a preventive approach to Parkinson ' s , but a cure along the way would be helpful too . parkinson ' s UK in Scotland call its report " Scotland can ' t wait " , and rightly so . the 30 people diagnose every week can not wait , and the 222 people in Glasgow West certainly can not either . it be time for government on both side of the border to act and work with Parkinson ' s UK and Parkinson ' s UK in Scotland to ensure that we do well for people with Parkinson ' s for their family and the staff who support they . Parkinson ' s UK have show we the way ; it be now time that we follow it . we now come to the Front Benchers . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) for bring forward this important debate , and I thank all member who have contribute . everyone have make excellent contribution that be thoughtful and move . right now in the UK around 153 , 000 people be live with Parkinson ' s , and that number be set to increase to 172 , 000 by 2030 . Richard from Burgess Hill in my constituency be one of those many thousand . I count Richard as a friend ; he be someone I greatly admire for his courage and tenacity . I be lucky enough to speak to he recently and get a brief insight into his life with Parkinson ' s . he tell I that something he have notice since his diagnosis be increase anxiety . he say that he now get anxious about everyday thing in a way that he never use to . he also say that the part of experience he have find most depressing be know that it be , in his word , " a one - way street " , where his condition can only be manage by use ever - increase level of medication . from even a short conversation with Richard , it be clear just how complex people ' s experience can be . it be also clear to I that we need to do well , as many hon . member have say , and that we have solution already but we just need to get on with it . Parkinson ' s be the fast - grow neurological condition in the world . it be progressive , it fluctuate , and it affect everything from movement , swallow , sleep and speech through to mental health . there be over 40 symptom , and each person ' s experience be unique . half of those live with the condition , like Richard , experience anxiety or depression , and up to 60 % can develop psychosis . they be also six time more likely to develop dementia . Parkinson ' s UK have identify some of the major failing in care today . they include long wait for specialist , a lack of access to expert multidisciplinary team , people not get their medication on time in hospital , and limit mental health and dementia support . there be also a postcode lottery when it come to advanced treatment such as Produodopa and deep - brain stimulation . those failing have consequence : unplanned hospital stay , severe complication and worsen mental health . Parkinson ' s cost the UK an incredible £ 3 billion a year . in England alone , unplanned hospital admission cost £ 277 million . so this be not only a health crisis but one with significant economic impact . I and my liberal Democrat colleague believe that the system must change urgently and that the Government have to act . first , we have get to fix the basic . to do that , we need to review the medicine supply chain . People with Parkinson ' s must get their med on time . we also need to expand the MHRA ' s capacity , reverse the 40 % workforce cut , and reduce the time for treatment to reach patient . secondly , we need to put care and support front and centre . we can do that by give people with Parkinson ' s access to a name gp — someone who know their story and their condition — and by make mental health a priority , not an afterthought . that mean regular mental health check - up , easy access to service through walk - in hub and restore the mental health and dementia care target that the Government have abandon . thirdly , the Government must step up and support carer . behind every person with Parkinson ' s , there be often someone else who care for they ; someone who be quietly exhausted . we must provide respite break and ensure that carer have access to pay leave . we need to fix the broken social care system once and for all . it be time for those cross - party talk — no more delay . as I have say in this place before , we will clear our diary to get those talk happen . this issue be simply too important for diary clash . I wonder whether the Minister can give we any clarity and a date on those vital talk . finally , we have get to help people live and work with dignity . I and my liberal Democrat colleague be campaign for : a new right to flexible work ; well accessibility standard for public space ; a strong blue badge framework ; the incorporation of the UN convention on the right of person with disability into UK law ; and the closing of the disability employment gap . we can do that if we implement a dedicated strategy for disabled worker , simplify the application process and introduce adjustment passport so that workplace support follow the person , even if their job change . this be a health issue , an economic issue and a social justice issue . as other have say , it be about human dignity . we owe it to people live with Parkinson ' s that we must do well , not some day but now . let we build a future where those with Parkinson ' s like Richard get the proper help and support they deserve . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to speak on behalf of his Majesty ' s opposition in this most important debate . I commend the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) for secure it and for his heartfelt and impassioned speech . I be particularly move by the recitation of Bobbie ' s poem and the highlighting of the amazing " Movers and Shakers " podcast . I thank all hon . member for their heartfelt contribution on behalf of their constituent and those across the country live with Parkinson ' s . we hear inspire story such as that of Jagdeep , as raise by the hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) , and John and Anne of Something Old , Something New , as raise by the hon . member for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) . I note that , as a result of other event in the country , our debate have have a relatively scottish flavour , but Parkinson ' s Awareness Month be uk - wide and a time to focus national attention on the condition that affect over 150 , 000 people here in the UK . that number that continue to rise . the disease impact not just individual but family , carer and community . it challenge both body and spirit , demand a comprehensive response from all sector of society . we often learn about Parkinson ' s from friend , family and colleague , as be highlight so powerfully by the hon . member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) . for I , it be a deeply personal issue . a close family member be initially diagnose and treat for Parkinson ' s disease . more recently , that diagnosis be revise to progressive supranuclear palsy , or PSP , which be a rare and unfortunately more aggressive condition . that journey from uncertainty to diagnosis and then live with a progressive neurological condition have profoundly impact my family . I have witness at first hand the critical importance of early diagnosis , specialist care , emotional support and , above all , hope . since become a Member of Parliament , I have speak to many constituent across Farnham , Bordon , Haslemere , Liphook and the surround village affect by Parkinson ' s . I have be inspire by their bravery and strength in respond to the cruel difficulty that life have throw at they . Parkinson ' s have no cure , as hon . member have say , and that be one of the many challenge that people and their loved one face on diagnosis , but thank to advance in research and medicine , there be ever improve treatment to help manage and relieve symptom . as a result , many people with Parkinson ' s can have a normal or near - normal life expectancy . physiotherapy , occupational therapy and medication can help relieve symptom and enable people to stay live independently at home for long . in my constituency , people with Parkinson ' s have benefit from free membership of local leisure centre in Whitehill and Bordon and in Haslemere , help they to keep active and manage their symptom , but there be so much more to do , whether on research , diagnosis , treatment or — hopefully — a cure . last month , ahead of World Parkinson ' s Day , like the hon . member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , I meet Parkinson ' s UK and individual affect by the condition . I hear powerful account from volunteer about the daily challenge they face from mobility issue and speech difficulty and the emotional toll on themselves and their family . I commend Parkinson ' s UK for its tireless work in provide advice , support and advocacy at every stage of the Parkinson ' s journey . help be available via its website and helpline . I encourage anyone who need support to reach out . however , as the hon . member for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) mention , there be still many who do not know what support be out there ; that must change . I praise the local charity and volunteer across my constituency and across the country , as raise by my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , and the work they do . like the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) , I have experience work in healthcare , and during my tenure with the NHS get it right First Time programme I be involve in the publication of the neurology national speciality report . the analysis in that report highlight significant variation in neurology service across England , particularly in manage condition such as Parkinson ' s disease . key conclusion include the urgent need for timely access to specialist neurology service , the development of standardised care pathway for chronic neurological condition , the expansion of the neurological workforce , include advanced practitioner , and much well datum , as my hon . friend the Member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) mention . those recommendation be essential to reduce disparity and improve outcome . will the Minister commit to address those three priority in more detail beyond general reference to cut waiting list and update the workforce plan ? medical research in the UK be fund by both public and private sector as well as charity and non - governmental organisation . in 2022 , nearly £ 250 million be spend on neurological research include Parkinson ' s and other neurodegenerative condition across 1 , 873 individual project . Parkinson ' s UK and Cure Parkinson ' s alone contribute £ 2 . 6 million . under the previous Conservative Government , we invest more than £ 79 million in research into Parkinson ' s disease between 2019 and 2024 . in 2022 - 23 , the National Institute for Health and Care Research enable 114 study relate to Parkinson ' s through its infrastructure . we also roll out a new treatment for advanced Parkinson ' s disease through the NHS , start in February 2024 , offer an additional option for patient whose symptom be no long respond to oral medication . I would be grateful if the Minister would confirm the Government ' s plan to continue with that momentum . what research funding will be maintain or increase ? what new treatment option be be support or explore ? we also make progress in workforce planning , recruit record number of doctor and nurse , and publish the first ever NHS long - term workforce plan . that plan recognise the need for more specialist nurse and clinician in area such as neurology . the new Government have commit to update that plan . will they therefore retain that level of detail and maintain the focus on specialist role need for Parkinson ' s care ? I want to raise constituent ' concern regard recent shortage of medication , such as amantadine and apomorphine . that have real , distress consequence for people try to manage their condition . the Government have rightly acknowledge those supply constraint , but what action be be take to restore and secure access to those medication ? we have also hear concern about the potential impact of President Trump ' s propose pharmaceutical tariff . what assessment have be make of the risk that could pose to access and affordability of Parkinson ' s treatment ? turn to the Labour Government ' s record to date , I believe that Parkinson ' s have yet to be identify as a strategic priority . will the Minister confirm what level of funding be be allocate to Parkinson ' s research this year and how that compare with recent year ? there be also wide concern about the implication of tax and benefit change in the Budget , as the hon . member for Strangford raise , include the national insurance rise . many people with Parkinson ' s rely on social care service , which be not exempt from the national insurance rise . have any assessment be make of those extra cost for local authority , charity and self - funder ? charity such as Parkinson ' s UK do extraordinary work , but they too be affect by those rise cost . how be minister engage with the charity sector to understand how high taxis and squeeze funding may threaten support service or reduce research investment ? we know that neurology waiting time be already among the long in the NHS . will the Minister outline a target plan to specifically address that ? will the Government also publish a long - term strategy for neurological condition , include Parkinson ' s , with clear plan for service integration between the NHS and social care ? a multidisciplinary , multi - agency approach be vital for people with Parkinson ' s to live full , independent life . finally , what guarantee can the Minister offer that recent restructuring in NHS England and the Department of Health and Social Care will not worsen access to Parkinson ' s service , delay initiative or harm continuity of care ? with 50 % cut to integrate care board , will the Minister reassure people with Parkinson ' s and their family that they will not be disadvantage ? the House be unite in want to improve treatment , support and outcome for people with Parkinson ' s . we hope that the Government will listen carefully to today ' s contribution and respond with clear commitment that include action on workforce , waiting time , integration , support for carer and access to research and innovation . Parkinson ' s be a relentless condition that rob individual of independence and dignity , but with research , investment , compassionate care and community support , we can fight back . the conservative party stand ready to work constructively with the Government and with member from all party to ensure that progress be not only continue but accelerate . let we match awareness with action , for only with action come hope . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) for raise this important issue , and I congratulate he on lead the first substantive debate on Parkinson ' s in the House . I also thank all back Benchers for their insightful contribution , which raise various issue . although the hon . member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) , for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) , for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) and for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) and the Members for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) all raise various issue , it be fair to say that everybody who have speak today , include those who make contribution from the Opposition Front Benches , have raise the importance of the voluntary and community sector and share some powerful and important story from their constituent . April be Parkinson ' s Awareness Month and I pay tribute to the fantastic charity that make it a success : Parkinson ' s UK , Cure Parkinson ' s and the Brain Charity , to name but a few . in particular , I be move to see how many people have contribute to the " Knit it blue " campaign , send in more than 500 beautiful knit tulip . I also pay tribute to the Movers and Shakers , whose podcast be do a fantastic job of raise awareness and advocate for well care and treatment for those live with Parkinson ' s . Awareness campaign really deliver result . we just need to look at the " get it on Time " campaign , which have lead to more than 100 NHS organisation pledge to improve the delivery of time - critical medication — raise a number of time in this debate — and be back by resource and training material commission by NHS England . we also now have the Parky charter , which be galvanise public and professional awareness of the need of the Parkinson ' s community to ensure timely diagnosis , comprehensive care and dignity for all people with Parkinson ' s . we recognise the challenge of live with Parkinson ' s and hear the call from the Parkinson ' s community for more research , shorter waiting time for neurology appointment and more Parkinson ' s nurse and multi - disciplinary team to deliver Parkinson ' s care . the Parkinson ' s UK website have give a voice to many patient live across the country , and I want to echo the comment make by Andrew in the west midland that our Parkinson ' s nurse be " worth their weight in gold . " Neurology be particularly challenging , and we need more neurologist and specialist nurse . there be initiative nationally that support service improvement and well care for Parkinson ' s patient . NHS England ' s get it right First Time neurology programme support improvement to Parkinson ' s care by promote data - drive approach , share good practice and fair access to service . it focus on improve patient experience , shine a spotlight on disparity in care and call for well - integrate process , such as people get their med on time . the NHS constitution handbook set out that patient should start consultant - lead treatment within 18 week from referral . NHSE publish a new elective reform plan in January , set out the step towards meet this target by the end of this Parliament , and we achieve our pledge to deliver an additional 2 million elective appointment between July and November 2024 , compare with the same period in 2023 , seven month ahead of schedule . that be a first step to deliver our commitment that 92 % of patient will wait no long than 18 week from referral to consultant - lead treatment by March 2029 . the Department for Work and Pensions offer personal independence payment to individual with health condition or disability . however , there be currently no automatic entitlement to PIP in relation to any specific health condition except in case of people near end of life . the Government recently bring forward a Green Paper on the health and disability benefit system and the support we offer entitle " pathway to work " . in that , we consider how to improve the system for those with very severe health condition and disability , which include explore way to reduce the need for some people with severe health condition to undergo a full PIP functional assessment . I be due to meet the DWP Minister next week . I will raise the issue that have be raise today with she , particularly by my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar , the hon . member for Strangford and other . the primary focus of the Department for Transport ' s blue badge scheme be to help those with the great mobility need and it be not condition - specific . the blue badge eligibility criterion in England be extend in 2019 to include more people with non - visible disability , in order to ensure that people with the great need , whatever their disability or condition , have access to a badge . there be several automatic qualifying criterion for a blue badge , such as be in receipt of certain benefit . People who do not automatically qualify due to receive certain benefit may still be eligible , and local authority will assess application base on the information provide . there be currently no plan to add to the list of condition that give entitlement for free prescription . however , approximately 89 % of prescription item be currently dispense free of charge , and a wide range of exemption be already in place . People with Parkinson ' s who be over 60 year old be entitle to free prescription , and for those who do need to pay , the cost can be cap by purchase a prepayment certificate . in addition , the NHS low - income scheme can provide help with health cost on an income - relate basis . my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ask I to meet several stakeholder organisation , and I be more than happy to meet they to discuss the Parky charter . I understand that Parkinson ' s Connect be be pilot with six healthcare team in England and Scotland , with more plan in 2025 . I would be pleased to discuss how the pilot be provide comprehensive support to people with Parkinson ' s on how they be progress and on next step . NHS England ' s neuroscience transformation programme improve Parkinson ' s care by focus on fast diagnosis , well co - ordinate care and improve access to specialist service . for example , it contribute to shift our NHS from hospital to community and from analogue to digital through the home - base care pathway . that focus on provide comprehensive support and care for individual in their own home , integrate remote monitoring through wrist - wear sensor , and provide symptom management advice and access to healthcare professional . empower patient to manage their condition at home mean we can improve their quality of life and , crucially , maintain their dignity and independence . last November , we establish the Neuro Forum — a UK - wide , Government - lead forum focus on service and support for people affect by neurological condition . it be the first of its kind and bring together the Department of Health and Social Care , NHS England , devolve Governments and health service , and neurological alliance across the UK to address gap in treatment and care and to drive improvement in neurological health across the four nation . the forum will focus on practical thing , such as a well understanding of neurological workforce challenge and help to address they ; teach other staff to provide well care for people live with one or more of over 600 neurological condition include Parkinson ' s ; share innovative solution , such as new therapy ; and , crucially , ensure that patient ' voice be hear . research have be touch on by many speaker . it advance our understanding of Parkinson ' s as we develop new treatment , technology and management strategy . today these thing help people to live well with Parkinson ' s ; tomorrow they could deliver a cure . the Government be strongly commit to support research into Parkinson ' s disease . we continue to encourage research through target funding , infrastructure support , policy initiative , and collaboration and partnership . for example , the UK Dementia Research Institute , which be primarily fund by Government , be partner with Parkinson ' s UK to establish a new £ 10 million research centre dedicate to well understand the cause of Parkinson ' s and find new treatment . the centre , support by five of the National Institute for Health and Care Research ' s biomedical research centre , have discover that eye scan can detect Parkinson ' s disease up to seven year before symptom appear , enable people to receive treatment and make any appropriate lifestyle change early . I reassure the House that change to the structure of NHS England and the Department will seek to eliminate duplication and improve efficiency to ensure that work on Parkinson ' s continue to develop . research be , of course , crucial for discover new drug and underpin the entire drug discovery and development process . Produodopa be a groundbreake new treatment for Parkinson ' s disease , particularly for patient with advanced disease and severe motor fluctuation . it be revolutionary because it provide a continuous 24 - hour infusion of medication via a small pump , provide more consistent symptom control . the NHS roll it out in February last year . it have be show to improve motor function and have prove its worth by significantly improve the quality of life of those with advanced Parkinson ' s . I briefly remind colleague that the NHS in England be legally require to make funding available for treatment recommend by technology appraisal guidance publish by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence . we all want to see people with Parkinson ' s live as well as possible for as long as possible . that be why it be not good enough that we still see inequality in access to Parkinson ' s service . neurology service have be face real challenge , include in the workforce , delay to treatment and care , and a lack of information and support for patient . through the forthcoming NHS 10 - year health plan , we will improve care for people with long - term condition like Parkinson ' s . in response to the hon . member for Meriden and Solihull East , I can confirm that the plan will drive our ambition towards great use of technology and datum in the NHS . a core part of the 10 - year health plan will be our workforce and how we ensure that we train and provide the staff the NHS need to make it more accessible , proactive and tailor for patient . the refresh NHS workforce plan will set out the number of doctor , nurse and other professional that will be need in five , 10 and 15 year ' time . it will reflect the fact that our NHS be care for patient with increasingly complex need . however , we be already make progress on the workforce to support those with Parkinson ' s , include by have over 900 full - time equivalent consultant — over 30 more than in 2023 . there be 27 specialised neurology centre across England . as of January , over 7 , 700 full - time equivalent speech and language therapist be employ in NHS trust — an increase of over 300 compare to last year . there be over 17 , 900 full - time equivalent occupational therapist — an increase of over 600 . as of January , there be almost 25 , 300 full - time equivalent physiotherapist — over 900 more than last year . we have also have a record increase in the carer ' s allowance . I do not have an update on the social care talk , but I will ensure that the Minister for Care hear that the matter have be raise in the debate . I once again extend my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar for secure the debate and to all member who have speak . I look forward to work with they all to ensure that people live with Parkinson ' s have the dignity they deserve . I begin by talk about Parkinson ' s Awareness Month . one thing that strike I from hear so many people share their story , and from the story share in the debate , be the number who feel uncomfortable share their status , sometimes even with their close friend and family . this past month have be about smash the stigma , and I know that this debate will play its part in that too . I once again thank the Backbench Business Committee for allow the debate and hon . member from all part of the House for their contribution , which be often emotional — I thank they for share those story . a few theme come through , largely around the value of local volunteer and group , begin with the first intervention from the Father of the House , the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) . we then hear from the hon . member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) about Jane , from my hon . friend the Member for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) about John and Anne , and from my hon . friend the Member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) about Angie . we also hear the especially emotional story of Jagdeep from my hon . friend the Member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) . volunteer group be vital to ensure that those with Parkinson ' s can live with their condition , and they provide incredible value . we should always be grateful for the volunteer who give up their time . we also hear about the value of and impact on family , which I mention in my speech and which come through again in a range of hon . member ’ speech . I thank the Minister for her response . I look forward to continue to work with she and member across the House , look at the next step for well diagnosis and well care , so that we can well support those with Parkinson ' s and their family , and towards one day have a cure for Parkinson ' s . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider Parkinson ' s Awareness Month . prisoner of Conscience I beg to move , that this House have consider prisoner of conscience . many member would like to have be here today but unfortunately be unable to be because of other commitment . we know what those commitment be , give what be happen today across this great nation . today we gather in this esteemed House not simply to address issue of the moment , but to reflect on the principle that define our humanity and on our collective moral obligation . it be an honour to have be involve in many such debate over the past 12 year . this topic — prisoner of conscience — be close to my heart and the heart of many member , some of whom be here , while other have unfortunately be unable to attend . we speak not for ourselves but for the voiceless . I take seriously the tenet of my faith , as other do theirs . a verse that I often recall in time like this be Proverbs 31 : 8 - 9 : " open your mouth for the mute , for the right of all who be destitute . open your mouth , judge righteously , defend the right of the poor and needy . " I know that those ideal be hold by many member , regardless of their religious persuasion . this issue call on we to uphold our share value and to support and assist those who be less fortunate than ourselves . prisoner of conscience , who live in a state of despair due to their faith or belief , be not criminal . they be doctor , teacher , artist , writer , pastor and journalist , and they be all people of faith . their so - call crime be to think freely , to believe openly , to speak honestly . prisoner of conscience be individual who be in prison not for any crime but for their belief , their expression of thought or their unwavering commitment to their value . they be a testament to the human spirit ' s resilience against tyranny . it be important for we to remember that they be member of our global family — our brother and sister — and they be deserve of our advocacy and support . let we turn our attention to article 18 and 19 of the universal declaration of human right , which be adopt by the UN General Assembly in 1948 . that pivotal document lay the foundation for our understanding of human right worldwide . article 18 state : " everyone have the right to freedom of thought , conscience and religion ; this right include freedom to change his religion or belief , and freedom , either alone or in community with other and in public or private , to manifest his religion or belief in teaching , practice , worship and observance . " those word show clearly what article 18 mean : freedom for people to express themselves in any way they wish in relation to their religious belief . I welcome the Minister to her place . she always speak well on these matter , and we very much look forward to her response . I do not think that she will be find want in relation to what we ask of she today . it be also a pleasure to see the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) , and other who will contribute . the right of teaching , practice , worship and observance be not optional or cultural ; they be universal . yet in 2025 , we stand here amid a global crisis of conscience . thousand sit in cell , unjustly detain , torture and silence , merely for profess their faith or uphold their conviction . that be not hypothetical ; it be happen all day , every day , for many people . accord to the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom , as of 2024 at least 72 Christians be either imprison or miss in four of the world ' s five communist country : 52 be currently imprison in China , Cuba , North Korea and Vietnam , while the other 20 be miss . in North Korea alone , an estimate 80 , 000 to 120 , 000 individual , many of whom be christian , be detain in prison . article 18 enshrine the fundamental right of individual to hold their belief — whether spiritual , political or philosophical — and to express those belief freely and openly . the hon . Gentleman , who always speak with such compassion and conviction , be make a powerful case . one of the bad example be the detention of armenian prisoner of war by Azerbaijan . they have not break any criminal code , as he say ; they be public servant hold for political purpose , with no clear legal redress or access , or even clear ground as to why they be be hold . do he agree that international law should dictate here , not domestic politic , with government mark their own homework ? I praise my constituent Annette Moskofian , who represent Armenians in the UK . the Minister can be assure that I will write to she with some of Annette ' s demand after the debate . the hon . Lady be right to mention the Armenians . if we go back even far , we remember what happen in the armenian genocide . she outline the case of those prisoner of conscience and prisoner of conflict in Armenia . I know that the Minister have take note of that and will come back to the hon . Lady , who I thank for her intervention . as we all know , thousand find themselves in prison across the globe , not because they have violate law but because they have dare to articulate belief that challenge powerful interest or unpopular narrative . they be individual who stand firm in their conviction at great personal cost . I admire any person who take a stand on something that they fundamentally and strongly believe in . it be unacceptable that in the 21st century , we continue to witness the persecution of such individual . from China to Iran , and Russia to Nigeria , those who seek simply to express their belief and exercise their right have face unjust attention and oppressive action . these be not isolate incident . unfortunately , they reflect systematic state hostility towards religion and belief , particularly under communist regime . as Nobel laureate Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn warn in 1983 : " Hatred of God be the principal driving force " behind communist policy . militant atheism be not incidental ; it be essential to communist control . let I be clear : such persecution be not limit to Christians . Shi ' a and Sunni Muslims , Baha ' be , Falun Gong practitioner , Hindus , Jews and many other face repression across the globe . freedom of religion or belief be a human right , not a privilege of one faith or nation . it be every individual ' s right . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on international freedom of religion or belief , I be honour to discuss this topic . to help those individual , I believe that we must make a stand against that injustice , which be why I ask for this debate . we must remind those in power that voice of dissent , and freedom of thought , consciousness and religion , represent not merely an individual right but a foundation of democratic society , and that their offence be not go unnoticed . today , we bring that to the attention of all the place across the world where this be happen . let we affirm our commitment to liberty by remember the ongoing struggle face by prisoner of conscience around the world . may we encourage our constituent and community — mine encourage I every day — to keep those prisoner in their thought and prayer , while work together , through advocacy and informed action , to champion the value enshrine in article 18 , and to promote the many benefit these freedom bring to society that uphold they . alongside article 18 , we must consider article 19 , which state : " everyone have the right to freedom of opinion and expression ; this right include freedom to hold opinion without interference and to seek , receive and impart information and idea through any medium and regardless of frontier . " opinion and expression be the bedrock of any vibrant society that wish to do well and take people with it , in unison . they enable society to grow and thrive . when we suppress dissent , we undermine progress . there be thousand of prisoner . how can we respond to those innumerable violation of human right ? how can we begin to make a difference ? I often think of the analogy of the wee boy on the beach with the starfish . the adult say , " you can ' t save they all . " the wee boy say , " but I can save this one . " we have the power to advocate loudly and clearly not just for the release of prisoner of conscience , but for the root cause of this duress to be confront and dismantle through sustained diplomatic pressure , international co - operation , and the strengthening of legal and institutional protection for freedom of religion or belief . it be our responsibility to challenge the environment , be they legal , political or ideological , that allow such injustice to persist and to ensure that no individual be ever imprison for live accord to their conscience . I call on the Government to prioritise the issue of freedom of religion or belief violation in diplomatic dialogue — I know our Minister do that , and I believe our government do , but for the purpose of this debate , we seek that reassurance — particularly with state know for systematic abuse . I can think of many example , include China , Russia , Iran and North Korea . we must sanction the individual responsible for religious persecution , and we must fund and support civil society group work to secure prisoner release . let we stand united in our unwavering commitment to uphold the principle enshrine in the freedom to change religion or belief , if that be a choice . together , let we be that voice for the voiceless and that hope for the hopeless . they will probably never see this debate , but they need to be reassure that we be speak for they in the way that we should . I would like to mention some of the thousand of prisoner of conscience who be currently hold in this awful state . let the record show we have not forget they . I just want to name they ; I will not go into all the detail , but it be important that we have they on record . they include Jimmy Lai , a pro - democracy activist and medium tycoon in Hong Kong , imprison for his advocacy of freedom of the press , and a british citizen — we have not forget about he ; Sahar Mahdavi , an iranian woman detain for participate in peaceful protest advocate for woman ' s right — my Ulster Scots accent will destroy these name ; Yahaya Sharif - Aminu , a nigerian gospel musician sentence to death for allegedly blasphemous lyric in a song share on WhatsApp ; Renagul Gheni , a Uyghur woman detain in China for practise her faith ; Mojdeh Falahi , an iranian Christian convert imprison for her religious belief ; Cao Thi Cuc , a vietnamese christian leader arrest for her religious activity ; Y Pum Bya , a Montagnard Christian from Vietnam detain for his faith ; Mahvash Sabet , a member of the Baha ' I community in Iran , imprison for her religious belief ; Nguyen Bac Truyen , a vietnamese human right lawyer and religious freedom advocate imprison for his activism ; Maira Shahbaz , a pakistani christian teenager abduct and force into a marriage and conversion , now seek asylum ; Mubarak Bala , a nigerian humanist sentence to 24 year in prison for blasphemy — his faith and his right to hold his view be as important as all the rest ; Abdulbaqi Saeed Abdo , a yemeni Christian convert imprison for his faith ; Naser Navard Goltapeh , an iranian Christian convert sentence to 10 year in prison for " act against national security " ; and Leah Sharibu , a nigerian schoolgirl abduct by Boko Haram and hold captive for refuse to renounce her christian faith . most recently , I have look at the case of the continue imprisonment of chinese dissident Dr Wang Bingzhang , founder of China Spring magazine , a leader of the overseas China pro - democracy movement and a permanent resident of the United States . Dr Wang Bingzhang be kidnap while travel to Vietnam in 2002 , take to the People ' s Republic of China and sentence to life imprisonment for his activism after a trial that last half a day and be close to the public , where he be deny the right to due process and a fair trial . he have be hold in solitary confinement throughout his 23 year in prison , and his physical and mental health have seriously decline . the United Nations working group on arbitrary detention declare that " the detention of Wang Bingzhang be arbitrary , be in contravention of article 9 , 10 and 11 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights " . congressional resolution 326 in the 108th United States Congress of 2003 - 04 resolve that Dr Wang Bingzhang " be be arbitrarily detain in the People ' s Republic of China in violation of international law " . it be quite clear that he should be release , and he have be in prison for 23 year . the international case be clear , and we should co - ordinate with the Government of the United States in effort to seek the release of Dr Wang Bingzhang and his safe , immediate and unconditional return to the United States from the People ' s Republic of China . could he be one of the starfish save ? while acknowledge that we can not save they all , we can save some . we must keep hope alive , and I hope that this debate will keep that hope alive for all those people . as Luke 4 : 18 remind we : " the Spirit of the Lord be upon I … to proclaim liberty to the captive and … to set at liberty those who be oppress " . let we proclaim that liberty and not forget the daily plight of prisoner of conscience , alongside faith group , international ally , non - governmental organisation and parliamentarian worldwide , because this be not just the UK ' s fight — this be the world ' s fight ; it be humanity ' s fight for every one of those people . the House be aware that my private Member ' s Bill , the Special Envoy for Freedom of Religion or Belief Bill , be schedule for Second Reading . I have introduce this Bill because I believe we can do more . today , as I think of prisoner of conscience , I also think of the persecute Church of Christ and those who be persecute simply because of their faith across the world . we can not save they all , but we can do more to save some . I look to the Government to stand up , stand alongside they and send a message that the treatment of the human right of those who be a minority will impact on trade deal , our Government aid programme and all aspect of international involvement . this be about one thing alone : freedom — freedom to express ourselves , in the way that we have the right to in this country . it matter to a prisoner of conscience ; it matter to the family ; it matter to the politician ; and it matter to this House . I hope the Minister and the Government will take the opportunity today to show that it also matter to they . it be an enormous privilege to follow the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who be a tremendous advocate for the voiceless . may I begin by reiterate the importance of the question that he have raise and by ask the Minister to address in her wind up the question of what action have follow the telephone call between the Prime Minister and President al - Sisi on the question of pursue the release of Alaa Abd el - Fattah ? be there any plan for secure the release of Jimmy Lai ? we have have many prisoner of conscience of our own . at random , off the top of my head , I could name Thomas more , Dr Barnes , Latimer and Ridley , Cranmer , Archbishop Laud , and even John Bunyan in Bedford jail . a free Parliament that have the will to do so could have campaign for their release , and history might have be significantly different . the problem for we now be that the prisoner of conscience be well beyond our jurisdiction , so when we raise case with Ministers , often enough we have no leverage whatsoever with the jurisdiction that have imprison they . we can no long simply deploy the Royal Navy , as we might have do in the past , and as indeed we do when we deploy it to eradicate the scandal of the international slave trade . even in those jurisdiction where we do have alliance , share national interest and good diplomatic relation , often enough government have big fish to fry with respect to regional security and stability , and international trade , so when we raise case with Ministers , we be tell , " these be raise at the high level " — indeed , when I be a Minister , I raise they at the high level — but not much action follow . be we waste our breath ? be we waste the House ' s time ? this be not a counsel of despair . it be essential that we continue to do as the hon . member for Strangford have do : to persevere . we have to try — we have to try to lift the odd starfish , as he say . at the very least , we will have send a powerful message to those prisoner , their relative and their friend that they be not forget , that we do campaign for they and , indeed , that we pray for they . we be remind in chapter 12 of the act of the apostle that St Peter , guard by four squad and chain between two soldier , be spring by an angel . in chapter 16 , Paul and Silas be spring in an earthquake and end up evangelise the prison governor . until those miraculous day return , however , we be confine to continue to raise matter with Ministers . accordingly , I raise the case of Ali Minaei , a young man in Iran who have be in prison for the last year . he be sentence for have attend a church service in somebody ' s home . he also have a severe heart condition . he be deny medical treatment in prison , and have be subject to beating , include blow to his chest . it be not untypical for Christians in Iran to be sentence for crime against state security , to be give long sentence , to have prolong interrogation , sexual harassment , and beating , or to be deny privilege that other prisoner have access to . I see young Ali as an architype for all those prisoner of conscience that my hon . friend the Member for Strangford mention , be they imprison for advocate for human right , for their insistence on freedom of expression , or because of their adherence to a minority faith , and whether they be imprison in Xinjiang , Hong Kong , North Korea , Afghanistan , Turkey , Egypt , Venezuela or wheresoever . I share a belief with my hon . friend that there will be a day of liberation , when the prisoner will be free . but that day of rapture will also be a day of wrath and judgment for their oppressor . we ought all to shrink from that judgment , because we share in the guilt of their tormentor through our inaction and by our silence . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for secure this important debate . we all agree that the number of member able to attend in the Chamber today in no way reflect the importance we attribute to the issue ; it have much more to do with the democratic process happen in parish hall and on doorstep across the country right now . as Liberal Democrats , we stand firmly in solidarity with those imprison for their political view around the world . we believe that free speech and the freedom to organise be fundamental democratic right , and those imprison for such cause be true symbol in the fight for democracy , free expression and the right to challenge Government policy . the free practice of religion should be a universal right for all people , everywhere . it be vital that we shine a light on religious persecution wherever we find it , and commit to oppose it with unwavering resolve . many religious people globally face extreme form of oppression , include threat to their very life . we be deeply concerned by the lack of global action to safeguard religious freedom , protect minority group and uphold human right . that must change . liberal Democrats have a proud history as strong defender of freedom of religion and belief . those be not just political position ; they be our core belief . human right and the rule of law stand at the very heart of what it mean to be a liberal Democrat . in our 2024 general election manifesto , we commit once again to protect , defend and promote human right for all , include those persecute for their religion or belief . we call for the appointment of an ambassador - level champion for freedom of belief , and increase funding for humanitarian aid and asylum support for those flee religious persecution . we firmly believe that liberalism and co - operation have a vital role to play in secure peace , promote democracy , and defend human right across the world . the UK must work with ally as a champion of freedom of belief . today , certain country have notably high number of prisoner of conscience , often tie to political regime , religious repression or authoritarian governance . in China , the Government ' s policy in Xinjiang have lead to the mass detention of Uyghur Muslims in " re - education " camp , where they face torture and force indoctrination . House Church Christians face harassment , arrest and imprisonment simply for practise their faith outside state control . the deliberate , systematic persecution of the uyghur population meet the standard for impose sanction under the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 . we call on the government urgently to issue their UK - China audit , to set out a clear approach that include work to shine a spotlight on Beijing ' s human right abuse . Russia , under President Putin ' s increasingly authoritarian leadership , have see a crackdown on opposition figure , journalist , and minority religious group . jehovah ' s witness have be label an extremist organisation , lead to numerous arrest . in power there be balance of opportunity and risk , and one important point make by my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) be that minister often have big fish to fry when deal with international relation . from the hon . Gentleman ' s perspective , what be the right balance between stand up against human right abuse , and maintain and develop relation with emerge power such as China ? that be an important question — indeed , it be one of the question for british foreign policy as we go forward . this be not just about China ; we can also look at a country such as T ü rkiye at the moment , where we see clear oppression of political opposition , although T ü rkiye also play a key role in the defence in Europe and the future of european security in relation to Russia . the hon . Gentleman be completely correct . it be not for I to tell the Government how to get the balance right , but any Government need to have a set of principle that they abide to , and to say , " this be the standard we be set , and we apply it equally to everybody . " those of we in the room might come to different conclusion as to what those standard be , but the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . I do not underestimate the compromise that have to be make by Ministers . obviously I be not in that position , but some of we in the Chamber be , and I welcome the intervention . in Russia , political dissident and human right activist have be persecute — a clear example of that be the late Alexei Navalny , who die in prison on dubious and politically motivated charge . the hon . member for Strangford mention Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn , who publish the famous book " the Gulag Archipelago " in the 1970 . that be so dangerous to the soviet regime that it be suppress completely and ban in Russia — a great example of how freedom of expression can play an important role in bring down entire regime , however secure they may seem at the time . I declare my interest as an unpaid trustee of the Index on Censorship . think specifically about regime such as that in Russia , and the importance of allow journalist , activist and other to achieve a level of freedom of expression in those very repressive regime , what would the hon . Gentleman say about the support give via different Government agency for people in those sort of situation ? that be an area of great importance , particularly in Russia , where the regime have now become so stifle that there be little freedom of expression at all within the country , and we do not see much — Alexei Navalny be a great example of Vladimir Putin complete his suppression of political opposition . it be fundamental for our Government to support voice for democracy and freedom across the world , and that be particularly important now when we face this challenge from Russia , which be interfere in the internal process of other country . it also become particularly incumbent on lead democracy such as ours to find way to help promote freedom of expression , and the ability of journalist to do their job be particularly important to that . we have a moral duty to stand with those who risk everything for democratic and press freedom , from Jimmy Lai in Hong Kong to Mzia Amaglobeli , a journalist who be recently arrest in Georgia — a good example of russian overseas interference . the right hon . member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) be right to mention Alaa Abdel el - Fattah , who be imprison in Egypt . their courage be a stark reminder that defend democratic value must never be selective or silent . in Iran , the regime maintain a strict interpretation of Shi ' a Islam and enforce its religious law through harsh measure . member of the Baha ' I faith be persecute on charge of apostasy or heresy . christian , especially convert from Islam , face arrest as conversion be consider a criminal offence . the recent crackdown follow the death of Mahsa Amini demonstrate the regime ' s continued brutality . accord to the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom , there be currently 1 , 342 individual assess as imprison for their religion or belief , with the high number find in China , Russia and Iran . the Government must do more to work with our international partner to secure the protection of religious right and robustly challenge state to ensure all people be safe to worship and express their political belief . this must include state uphold Article 18 of the universal declaration of human right that guarantee the right to freedom of thought , conscience and religion . we call for specific action : first , use the UK ' s Magnitsky sanction , to stand up against human right abuse ; secondly , ban import from area with egregious abuse , such as Xinjiang ; thirdly , enshrine in law a right for british national who have be politically detain abroad to access UK consular service ; fourthly , develop a comprehensive strategy for promote the decriminalization of homosexuality and advance LGBT + right globally ; and finally , strong UK engagement with international body , such as the United Nations , the European Union and the Commonwealth to promote religious freedom worldwide . we call for a long - term , comprehensive global strategy to protect freedom of expression , political and religious right , and to create a world where no one be imprison for peacefully express their belief . the Liberal Democrats strongly oppose any form of authoritarian or totalitarian rule that seek to imprison or silence individual for their belief . we will continue to urge the Government to use the UK ' s influence and foreign policy to promote and protect these value . be there not a dichotomy there ? the Liberal Democrats profess that they be against authoritarian rule , and yet for we to project power internationally , even if that be soft power , we risk involve ourselves in the sovereign decision of independent country . do the hon . Gentleman accept that when we seek to impose our value on other culture and country we create a tension ? where do he think the right balance lie ? whole book on liberalism be write about this very topic , as the hon . Gentleman probably know . the situation in the United States at the moment have bring this into sharp focus . for many year , we have hear country around the world speak about how America , at time with our support , have intervene in the internal affair of their country , and have ask how that be consistent when America have complain about they do the same thing . now that America be take a different role , perhaps some people be reassess what level we should go to . I can not answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question right now , although I be happy to have a separate discussion with he , if he would like , but hon . member who be interested in foreign affair have to think about the subject that he touch on and where the line lie . famously , the Americans refer to the Mogadishu line as a line that they cross in Somalia , where they feel they get too involved in the internal affair of that country . clearly , that be a difficult issue , but I thank he for raise it . to conclude , our commitment be clear : to protect , defend and promote human right for all around the world . we will not rest until every person can freely express their belief without fear of persecution . I call the shadow Minister . I begin by extend my thank to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for secure this important debate . he be a tireless defender of human right and his dedication to the cause of those who be persecute for their belief , wherever they may be , be courageous , admirable and much need . I thank he for it . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for enable the discussion to take place . it be a vital debate and it be only a shame that there be not more hon . member present . this country , the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , have long be a sanctuary for the oppressed , and this Chamber have be a voice for the voiceless and a champion of liberty . from the day of William Wilberforce to the last Government ' s establishment of a special envoy for freedom of religion or belief , this House of Commons have stand up for the fundamental freedom of speech , conscience and belief — long may that continue . I wish to speak for those who can not speak freely themselves and who languish in prison cell , not for any crime but simply for have the courage to believe differently , to respectfully challenge authority or to follow their conscience in the face of tyranny . we have have a short but meaningful debate , with some excellent contribution from colleague on all side of the House . the hon . member for Strangford , who speak passionately , as he always do , tell we about the importance of defend those who profess their faith and uphold their conviction , and the importance of stand up for freedom . the love of freedom have always inspire I in politic . I grow up in the 1980 , when we have a Prime Minister who defend freedom around the world . Margaret Thatcher stand against totalitarianism and communism across the world , particularly in the Soviet Union . a belief in freedom and liberty drive the conservative party . love of country be part of that , and we have always be a nation that have stand up for the liberty and freedom of the people of these island . I have great admiration for the hon . member for Ealing Central and Acton ( Dr Huq ) , who be no long in her place , and I have work closely with she on the issue of Armenia . we recall the armenian genocide 110 year ago . she refer to her constituent , Annette Moskofian , who I also know very well and with whom I have work on uphold the freedom of the people of Armenia . as the hon . Lady say , armenian prisoner who be be keep in Azerbaijani jail also need to have their freedom . Armenia need to live as an independent , free democracy without fear , and the people must be allow to express their view freely . last week , I attend a wreath lay at the Cenotaph with the hon . Lady and other hon . member from across the House in support of our friend from Armenia , which be a christian country that simply want to be democratic and independent and not to be threaten by an aggressive neighbour . no one in this House could ever compete with the passion , belief and deeply hold view of my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) . I have admire he ever since I enter the House in 2001 . he speak with enormous passion and he understand that this be a christian country . our law , tradition and custom be found on those christian tradition . if we discard they , we discard everything we have in this country . that do not mean that we do not respect other religion , but our christian heritage be fundamental and lead Britain to be a champion of freedom , free speech and freedom of religion and democracy around the world , as we have be for far long than most other country . my right hon . friend rightly remind we of how our own Royal Navy erode the slave trade — it be often forget that it be Britain that lead the way against the slave trade . I thank he for everything that he do to stand up for the right of the oppressed , and particularly those religious minority who be deny the right to worship and practise freely . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) , speak extremely well and raise a lot of issue that be well know throughout the House . he speak about the Uyghurs in Xinjiang and the importance of the China audit , which we be still wait for ; it be important that we get on with that . we have a moral duty to stand up for those who have lose their freedom ; Britain have a proud record of that . that transcend party politic , and I be sure that it will do so in this House today . he also mention those of the Baha ' I faith who be persecute , which be another very important point . there be superb intervention from my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) , who have now leave his place . he speak rightly about the balance between deal with nation around the world : we want good relation and trade and co - operation , and we want to work with many country economically , but equally we need to think about human right . we need to balance those thing . equally , he speak about impose our value on other country , which be always a balance . we can not impose british value on every country of different tradition and religion , but nevertheless we should never be silent when we see an injustice . I know that certainly on the Opposition Benches — and , I be sure , on the Government Benches — as people who believe in freedom and democracy we all stand for stand up against injustice , wherever it may be in the world . I will rightly focus on the people Members have mention who be wrongly detain in prison for their religion or belief . what practical step be his Majesty ' s government take to monitor , identify and support such individual ? the Minister have lot of time to answer all these question . she will need to tell we very clearly what resource be be allocate by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to monitor prisoner of conscience globally . how be that information be use in the UK ' s broad human right strategy ? as a member of the Article 18 Alliance , will the Minister tell we whether the UK actively propose name for international advocacy ? as we have already hear , the statistic be deeply alarming . accord to the US Commission on International Religious Freedom , more than 1 , 300 individual be currently imprison for their belief in just 28 country . that include 532 people in communist China , 327 people in Putin ' s Russia and 87 people in Iran . other Members have mention other country where similar issue need to be address , such as Vietnam and North Korea . the hon . member for Ealing Central and Acton mention Azerbaijan and Armenia , which I refer to early . my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West quite rightly mention Venezuela . I meet a delegation from Venezuela only last week , and I be an observer at a venezuelan election some year ago . I have to say that it be not very democratic , and I do not think that much have change since — in fact , it have get a lot bad . we should absolutely highlight that country as one in need of radical democratic change . my right hon . Friend also mention Egypt and Turkey . there be many other country that we could think of , but the point be that Britain must lead the way . we be the nation that always stand up for the right and freedom of people , and we must do so with vigour and without compromise . will the Minister confirm whether the Government have raise specific case with the government of those country and other ? if so , will she tell we which one she have be speak to in recent day ? I be aware that this debate be centre on matter of faith . however , I , like the hon . member for Strangford , take the opportunity to raise the case of Apple Daily founder Jimmy Lai . we need to see he release , and an end to his politically motivated trial and the repeal of the draconian national security law in Hong Kong . it be one matter to speak in this place about individual far afield who have little to no connection with these island , but it be another matter when it involve a british national . what development have there be on that issue so far ? we talk a lot about it , but we see very little action . give that the Government look as though they be become more economically align with China , which I think be a huge error , will Jimmy Lai ' s case be front and centre in our engagement with Beijing ? have the Minister specifically call for Jimmy Lai ' s release in dealing with her chinese counterpart ? I commend the hon . member for Strangford and all the member of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief for their laudable initiative and tireless effort in launch a scheme that enable member of this House to advocate for individual prisoner of conscience . that initiative represent a meaningful and compassionate step towards amplify the voice of those who have be unjustly detain for exercise their fundamental right . in the light of that important work , I must ask the Minister whether the fcdo be actively support that endeavour by assist member in establish contact with relevant embassy in the United Kingdom as well as engage with international legal and diplomatic mechanism to strengthen advocacy on behalf of those individual . I be pleased that the Government heed the call from the Opposition Benches on renew the last Government ' s position in have a special envoy for freedom of religion or belief . however , can the Minister outline exactly what the special envoy be do to advance the cause of individual prisoner of conscience ? have the envoy engage directly with foreign government or institution to press for their release ? do the Government intend to enshrine the post in law , for which my good friend the former Member for Congleton , Fiona Bruce , passionately campaign when she serve in this House until last year ? Britain have long use both aid and diplomacy to promote our value abroad . in that context , I ask the Minister whether the allocation of UK aid to recipient country be ever make conditional on demonstrable progress in safeguard freedom of religion or belief . be consideration give specifically to the treatment of individual imprison solely on account of their religious conviction ? be our financial assistance ever leveraged to encourage reform and accountability in such case ? those in prison today for their belief , be they Christian , Ahmadiyya Muslim , jewish , Hindu , Buddhist , any other religion or member of minority or non - religious community , deserve more than just our concern : they deserve our advocacy , our voice and our unwavering defence . our foreign policy must reflect not only our national interest , but a projection of how we treat our own people . we must never shy away from call out wickedness and unjust imprisonment or from defend the right to freedom of conscience . as the great John Stuart Mill , once a Member of this House , so wisely say : " bad man need nothing more to compass their end , than that good man should look on and do nothing . " we look forward to this Government do something . it be a real pleasure to serve under your chairship , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to respond to member in what have be a fascinating debate . I be very grateful to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for secure it , and I be very grateful for the contribution of other hon . member . I will try to respond to all the point raise . the Government stand in solidarity with those who be in prison solely because of their religious or other belief , and we call on government to ensure that the right to freedom of religion or belief be protect and promote for all people everywhere . society that respect and uphold human right , include freedom of religion or belief , be generally strong , more stable and prosperous . as many in the Chamber have articulate so eloquently , the scale of freedom of religion or belief abuse and violation globally be of grave concern . article 18 of the universal declaration of human right state that " everyone have the right to freedom of thought , conscience and religion " . however , the reality face by many — include the Baha ' I community in Yemen and Iran , the Ahmadis in Pakistan , the church member in Nicaragua who have be harass and arbitrarily detain , and non - Muslims catch up in Sudan ' s civil war — be far remove from that principle . Persecution , harassment , discrimination and arbitrary detention be sadly part of daily life for many . my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Central and Acton ( Dr Huq ) and the spokesperson for his Majesty ' s Opposition , the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) , both mention the current issue of Armenians in detention follow the recent conflict with Azerbaijan . Annette Moskofian have have a few mention , because she be such an ardent believer in freedom of religion or belief , and be the constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Central and Acton . for those reason , we be work hard to highlight and address the scale and severity of freedom of religion or belief abuse and violation , include by lobby for the release of prisoner of conscience . I shall set out some example . Lorenzo Rosales Fajardo , a pastor and leader of an independent church in Cuba , be imprison for participate in peaceful protest in that country . the Foreign Secretary write to he in December last year to express solidarity and call on the cuban authority to release he . we be delighted to hear that he be release in January . as the right hon . member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) say , this must not be a counsel of despair ; occasionally , we get good news in these case . Mubarak Bala have also be mention in this debate . a nigerian atheist and president of the Humanist Association of Nigeria , he be sentence to 24 year for his belief . we regularly lobby the Nigerian Government , include through letter to the Kano state governor and call by Ministers for his release , and we be pleased to hear that he be also free in January . of course , there be many other example , and I will try to set out what we be do to support they . the UK be determined to use its extensive diplomatic network to champion freedom of religion or belief on the international stage . as member have mention , our human right approach be be refresh by the Minister for human right in the other place , Lord Collins . he will come to Parliament in the usual way to set out that work when it be complete . I be very pleased to meet my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) early this week to discuss his role as the UK special envoy for freedom of religion or belief . to address the Bill propose that we make that role statutory , while we recognise the benefit of the position , we do not believe that its value would be enhance by make it statutory . as such , we will continue with the approach take by the last government under the excellent Fiona Bruce , maintain the role as an office within the Foreign Office , but with a strong sense of challenge . I welcome the tone in which this debate be be conduct . give that the Minister will not make the special envoy ' s role statutory , will she state very clearly that she will not make something else statutory — that she will not reintroduce a blasphemy law in the United Kingdom ? she will recognise that the abolition of the blasphemy law in the 1980 and 1990 mean that people could express whatever belief they happen to hold in a completely free way . that end a level of oppression that have be possible , although not exercise for many year . will the Minister make absolutely clear that in no way will this Government support a blasphemy law , and that they will not allow police to introduce one through the back door by criminalise act that would otherwise be cover by freedom of expression ? will she make absolutely clear that his Majesty ' s Government stand for freedom of religion and non - belief , not just belief , and that that mean the freedom to change one ' s religion , to reject a previous religion , and to criticise any religion ? do she agree with that ? of course I agree that freedom of religion or belief , or the right to have no belief at all , be critical and paramount . I know that organisation such as Index on Censorship , which the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) be part of , be very robust in that regard . it be crucial that we have the right to freedom of expression . on the fine point of the right hon . Gentleman ' s question , if he would like to write to I , I will be very happy to write back use the particular language that he would prefer . I be pleased by the Minister ' s answer to my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) . if we be talk about freedom of expression internationally , we have to be incredibly careful about freedom of expression in our own country . while Ministers often say that they oppose blasphemy law , we have see section 4 of the Public Order Act 1986 use to prosecute people for act of protest , include damage the Koran . be this not , in reality , the development of a back - door blasphemy law ? I reiterate my position that we uphold freedom . on the specific point that the hon . Gentleman would like I to fall into a trap on , if he would write to I so that I can get exactly the right language , I would be pleased to write back . I want to pursue my point about the importance of this not be a counsel of despair , as the right hon . member for New Forest West say . a couple of member have mention the country of Vietnam this afternoon , and while there be a number of concern — include some that I raise with Vietnam ' s deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs on her recent visit to the UK , in the context of discussion on matter of bilateral interest — I be very pleased to read that there have be an 83 % acceptance rate for the universal periodic review recommendation . I hope that Vietnam will be able to develop a national masterplan that specify concrete , measurable and time - bind action to follow up on those recommendation . we offer the expertise that we have within the Foreign Office , and stand ready to share our experience as we go on that journey together . as I mention , the UK be determined to use its extensive diplomatic network , and the priority of my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland will become clear as he meet with each of the Ministers to lay out his concern . with his background at the Bible Society , I know that he will have a lot in common with the hon . member for Strangford , and I be sure that they will bring more debate to this House in future , continue to challenge Ministers on these important matter . to give another example , last week my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland and the Minister for the middle east and north Africa , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , meet the former prisoner of conscience Dr Nader al - Sakkaf , who be arbitrarily detain by the Houthis in 2016 for his association with the Office of the Public Affairs of the Baha ' be of Yemen . they hear about his experience in Yemen , and discuss way in which the Government could support he and other case of this sort . I also want to highlight the vital work of human right defender in address freedom of religion or belief abuse and violation , include arrest and arbitrary detention . as the Foreign Secretary say in his Human Rights Day speech in December last year , " human right defender around the world risk their liberty — and often their life — for their belief in uphold fundamental human right for all , through protest , document human right abuse , support political prisoner and stand up for democracy and justice . " without human right defender , we would not know the full scale of abuse and violation . I think of the tragic story this week of Viktoriia Roshchyna , a journalist whose body be return without organ to her family follow detention in Russia . I know that that will be of interest to the hon . member for West Suffolk , give his association with the Index on censorship — it be an absolutely tragic case . the UK be pleased to support important flexible fund such as Lifeline , which have provide almost 100 grant to civil society organisation under threat in over 30 country since July 2024 . turn to our bilateral engagement , the Government do not shy away from challenge country that be not meet their obligation . we continue to highlight our concern , both publicly and in private . to give just one example , it be a central part of our work in Pakistan . my hon . friend the Minister for the middle east and north Africa visit Pakistan in November last year , and be able to advocate for freedom of religion or belief with Government Ministers and business and religious leader . high commission official , include our political counsellor , regularly meet representative from the Ahmadi , Christian , Hindu and Sikh community . we have follow the same approach with the Nigerian Government , include during Nigeria ' s universal periodic review last year . we be invest £ 38 million through our strengthen peace and resilience programme in Nigeria to help address the root cause of conflict in the middle belt and beyond . that , in turn , build the capacity of the country ' s security force to tackle violence against all civilian community , include those of different religious background and belief . on Syria , which be very much in the news this week , we have make it clear that the Government must ensure the protection of all civilian , set out a clear path to transitional justice and make progress towards an inclusive political transition . we will judge they by their action . the shadow Minister ask how conditional our support be in try to push for well human right . I can guarantee that in the discussion about lift sanction in recent month follow the ceasefire , we have discuss our vision for more freedom for all the different group in Syria . move on to our multilateral work , at the UN we regularly participate in interactive dialogue with the special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief . in March , our special envoy be in Geneva to engage in a session on the intersection between freedom of religion or belief and torture . last October , we participate in the interactive dialogue in New York on the link between freedom of religion and peace . we frequently raise forb during the UN ' s universal periodic review process , such as in our statement on Bhutan , Nicaragua and Qatar last November . in the case of Nicaragua , we note our increase alarm at the deteriorate human right situation . that include the harassment and arbitrary detention of member of the Church and the closure of organisation affiliate with it . we continue to work closely with the Organisation for Security and Co - operation in Europe as well . it provide a valuable platform for we to discuss and consider freedom of religion or belief and related issue . many member have mention article 18 , from which the Article 18 Alliance take its name . it be a coalition of 43 country form to defend and advance religious freedom globally . the hon . member for Strangford be involve in that alliance . the UK be an active member and work closely to combat discrimination and persecution base on religion or belief . that include highlight specific case of prisoner of conscience and co - sponsor statement and campaign for their release , such as the chair ' s statement on tibetan religious prisoner of conscience and Gedhun Choekyi Nyima . link to those important campaign , we have work closely with the Article 18 Alliance on statement that condemn forb violation and promote mutual respect between different religion and belief group . for example , in November last year , we join an important statement that condemn anti - muslim hatred and urge country to uphold the right to freedom of religion or belief . before I conclude , there be a couple of point that I have not cover . the hon . member for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) talk about China , and I reassure he that we raise our concern at the high level . a number of people have mention one of our most high - profile prisoner of conscience , Jimmy Lai . just this week , I meet Sebastien Lai , and I discuss Jimmy ' s progress and how he be get on regularly with Sebastien ' s constituency MP , who sit on our Benches . our staff in Hong Kong attend the court regularly to watch every single element of that procedure . we be work hard to continue to keep that at the high level , whether that be Prime Minister to President , Foreign Secretary to Foreign Minister , or I at ministerial level when I can . the hon . Member also ask about the China audit , which I can confirm we will be bring forward soon . within that process , I have meet Rahima Mahmut on the uyghur situation . the hon . Gentleman will be well aware that there be ongoing concern about that , and I reassure he and other watch this debate that we have definitely look at that subject and how it impact on our day - to - day life and business practice here in the UK . Briefly on Iran , we know that Christians in Iran be persecute . that include the ethnic armenian and assyrian Christians who face political , economic and social barrier . they be entitle to freedom as a formally protect minority , but they be often unable to practise their religion and be ban from preach to other Iranians . persian Christians and convert from Islam be consider apostate and face severe harassment , detention and lengthy prison sentence . christian often face propaganda charge as a result of their religious activity . the UK be on the core group for the recur Iran resolution lead by Canada , which always include language relate to freedom of religious belief and Christians . we be look forward to the next UN 3c resolution , which will be table in November 2025 . we have have a very good debate , and I thank the House for its patience . to conclude , this Government remain committed to address the issue of prisoner of conscience and freedom of religion or belief . no one should suffer for their belief , and we will continue to promote and protect freedom of religion or belief at every opportunity . I call Jim Shannon to wind up . I thank all right hon . and hon . member for their participation in this debate on prisoner of conscience and the importance of faith and freedom of religion or belief . the persecution of religious minority and human right be married ; if people be be hurt by persecution over religion , their human right be be hurt , and vice versa . all member be right to say that . today this House have be a voice for the voiceless and offer hope for those with no hope . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) , refer to never be silent when we see injustice , and he be right . we will not be silent in this House . my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) say that today will not be a counsel of despair . he and I , and many other in this Chamber , share a religious belief . he refer to prayer — pray every day ; pray earnestly ; pray fervently ; pray often . he be right to say that , because that be what we should be do . I remind the House of the story of William Wilberforce , who often speak in this House against slavery . there may be but a few of we here today , but remember : it only take a few to make a change . William Wilberforce never see the complete abolition of slavery in his time , but his action make a difference . I thank all those who make a difference today . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider prisoner of conscience . Hadlow College Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) I be sorry to see the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) run off . I be very much look forward to his intervention a little later , but maybe he will be back . who know ? lucky I . Hadlow College be Kent ' s only land - base rural college . it be unique in our county for the offer that it provide . its huge range of course be design to provide the skill need to maintain Kent ' s place as the garden of England . have be campaign for fantastic conservative councillor early today in the beautiful sunshine , I can assure the House that it remain that wonderful garden . the college be a regional powerhouse and an important part of the local Tonbridge community . speak to any of our key rural business , and they will say how the skill offer at Hadlow College help maintain our agricultural capacity in Kent . for those reason , we should have always be celebrate what Hadlow College do for the local area , but I must be honest : there be a period when we could not . in 2019 , Hadlow College become the first further education institution in the country to enter educational administration . during this debate , I will explore how the process affect Hadlow and the community today and ask the Minister to consider how it could be improve . before I do that , I pay tribute to all staff and student who be at the college and all the link institution during this challenging time . they make sure course keep run and that most be unaffected . I will name just a few of those people : Graham Morley , the first interim principal after educational administration in 2019 ; Lindsay Pamphilon ; Jim Mawby at the Tonbridge site ; and now David Gleed and Chris Lydon from North Kent College . that be not to forget Paul Boxall and his team at Hadlow rural community school , to whom I will refer later . the reality be that they have a much hard job because of the process the college go through in 2019 . in May 2019 , Hadlow College become the first further education facility in the country to enter educational administration after an Education and Skills Funding Agency investigation . this follow update to the statutory college insolvency regime in January 2019 that affect further education and sixth - form college . it mean that Hadlow College keep its door open . but it be not just Hadlow College that need to be rescue ; also include be Hadlow rural community school , West Kent College in Tonbridge , Betteshanger colliery in Dover , Ashford College , Princess Christian ' s Farm in Hildenborough , animal management site in Canterbury and Mottingham , and a further site in Greenwich . the question be simple : how do so many further education institution end up insolvent ? the expansion happen quickly in the year precede 2019 . it be about not just the acquisition of further site , but the subsequent investment . let we take the example of Betteshanger colliery ; after Hadlow College ' s interest start , it spend £ 1 . 2 million on change plan for a visitor centre , and then lose £ 4 million on the collapse sale of a business park . it very quickly become clear that the college have be reckless with its finance . its expansion be get far away from its core purpose : to provide land - base education in west Kent . follow the ESFA investigation , I write to the then Minister of State for Apprenticeships and Skills at the Department for Education , Anne Milton , on 10 May 2019 . on Betteshanger colliery , the letter say : " I would be concerned if further investment be make here in light of the financial situation should course be cut , with student leave unable to gain their qualification . " put simply , money be either be use for peripheral project that do not exist , or be transfer out of student ' education . at this point , I wish to touch on the concept of the Hadlow Group . I have a copy of a letter I receive on 1 October 2018 from the so - call Hadlow Group , which inform I of a proposal to merge West Kent and Ashford College with Hadlow College . in the interest of time , I shall not go into the background of the merger , which start with the collapse of K College nearly 15 year ago ; I merely want to point out that the Hadlow Group be seek to merge college at the time . as the ESFA , the Further Education Commissioner , the administrator and the Department have rightly recognise , the Hadlow Group have no legal structure — it be essentially a marketing term to provide credibility to the ever - expand portfolio of site — which give we an indication as to where thing start to go wrong . in the year lead up to 2019 , I meet representative of the college many time , and often I be ask to help secure significant amount of money for they . in December 2016 , I be inform of two immediate funding issue : the repayment of £ 888 , 000 from the 2014 - 15 financial year , which arise from the K College acquisition , and the £ 929 , 935 that be need at West Kent and Ashford Colleges for 2016 - 17 . I ask the Department for this funding on the basis that it be use to support further education provision in west Kent , but be it ? we now know that Hadlow College apply for £ 20 million from the ESFA ' s transaction unit , but the application fail . the ESFA demand that its funding be return , and Hadlow College consequently ask for what be essentially a government bail - out . I include all that history so that the Minister and the House can understand the complexity of the situation and to make it clear what be happen . money be be request on a huge scale , supposedly for further education provision , but that be not where it be go . as subsequent investigation have find , there be financial mismanagement on a scale never see before , which lead to Hadlow College enter educational administration . there must be some accountability for the people who make those decision , and it be therefore disappointing to many that those responsible for the expenditure — primarily the principal and the finance director at the time — have not have their investigation conduct in the public domain . we learn in November 2023 that Paul Hannan , the then principal , will be fine £ 250 , 000 if he ever work in education again . we also know from the administrator ' report that a deal be make with the deputy principal , Mark Lumsdon - Taylor , whereby he agree to pay a four - figure sum as part of a confidentiality agreement . I find this part of the process extremely unsatisfactory . ten of million of pound of public money have be pour into the educational administration process because of the reckless action of the two senior leader of Hadlow College at the time . give the scale and profile of this issue , I do not think that a confidentiality agreement be appropriate , and I urge the Department to bring forward amendment to future legislation that increase the level of transparency and accountability in such matter . this view be widely hold in the community because , sadly , the offer at Hadlow College have deteriorate since the educational administration process . the Hadlow College farm shop be no more and the Broadview tearoom have close . its landholding have decrease . all of this have enable Hadlow College to be a sustainable provider prior to the reckless expansion plan pursue in the last decade . that be all now go because of the need to pay back for fail business venture . put simply , what have happen here be a gamble with student ' education to expand beyond the core purpose of Hadlow College . I want to build on this point far , and I would appreciate answer from the Minister about how we can strengthen the educational administration process to future - proof education land . why do I focus on land ? because that be what Hadlow College be fundamentally about . it be a land - base college . it need land to train the next generation of rural entrepreneur . the more land it have , the more it can contribute to the rural economy . the same apply to Hadlow rural community school . in 2022 , a number of parcel of land around Hadlow be market for sale by Knight Frank on behalf of the administrator , and the proceed be use to pay back creditor . I understand that rationale from a financial perspective , but this be not an administration process . it be call an " educational administration " , and education provision have successfully continue throughout this turmoil . there be broad agreement from all those now responsible for deliver further education at Hadlow , include North Kent College and Hadlow rural community school , that the sale of parcel of land have impact the student offer . this be deeply regrettable . I would therefore like to ask the Minister how we may be able to adapt the educational administration process to ensure that land sale be not the default , especially for land - base educational establishment with this specialism . from the perspective of North Kent College , have just take over Hadlow College , the speed of this process mean it could not accurately make argument to safeguard some land earmark for sale . this have mean repurpose its provision on a small footprint . this have a big impact on the village . indeed , have to repurpose mean a much - desire footpath and cycle way between Tonbridge and Hadlow be extremely unlikely to be deliver . the impact on Hadlow rural community school be even more severe . I be afraid I be deeply concerned about the approach the Department be currently take towards its governance . the school have do extremely well to survive the process . it be design for a land - base specialism , which the educational administration process rightly safeguard . the separation of the college and the school be inevitable , but not necessarily detrimental to either . however , the loss of land in Hadlow affect they both . I refer the Minister to my letter of 10 April 2025 to the Secretary of State . the Department be now articulate — base on a letter to the school from the Department , date 3 April — that the plot of land at Court Lane , which could be use for educational provision , be sell . frankly , it be this letter that motivate I to apply for this debate . the reason give for that suggestion be interesting . it be claim in this letter that minister have determine that " capital investment option do not offer good value for money " . this be the same Department that have rightly invest ten of million of pound in secure the future of education in Hadlow , both for the school and the college . the education provision need to be appropriate in a competitive market . Tonbridge have some of the highest - perform secondary school and further education facility in the country , and many people move to our community for our school . hadlow rural community school be an important part of this network , and one that have a clear specialism . the Department need to support this first and foremost . in addition , I be extremely disappointed to see a pass reference , at the end of the same letter , to the school " engage with North Kent College " in a " long - term solution " . may I please remind the Minister that the long - term solution be find when separation occur ? I encourage the Minister to speak to official who can remind she of the considerable correspondence we have back in 2023 to secure the appropriate lease for the school to access the college ' s land . return to the nub of the issue , hadlow rural community school must thrive and succeed . to do so , it must have land available to retain its land - base specialism . it can do this under the current governance model , not as part of North Kent College ' s delivery of service at Hadlow College . this work well for both party , otherwise we run the risk of repeat all the governance failure that contribute to educational administration in the first place . the history I refer to early — of murky governance process , expansion without clear justification and , frankly , some pretty outrageous scrutiny of public finance by the two individual I name — must be avoid . this be where I want to end . education administration be an extremely difficult process . it be expensive and , since the incorporation legislation in 1992 , I doubt whether there have be many other transaction where two interconnect college be break up , with one split into two part and then transfer to three receive college . today , many part of the complex further education web at Hadlow , and in Kent more broadly , be thrive . I pay huge tribute to those in further education college who give so many opportunity to so many . as I say at the start , staff , management and student must take huge credit and huge pride for what they achieve during those difficult day . it be now the responsibility of the Department to safeguard that under the current governance model . I will continue to be happy to work very closely with the Minister and her official to achieve that , so we do not allow any historical action of the kind I have list to happen again . I congratulate the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) on secure this important debate . I , too , wish to pay tribute to all the staff and student at the college and the school mention in the debate , North Kent College and Hadlow rural community school . in fact , I wish to extend that to all college and school across Kent . I hear very clearly the point he make and I will attempt to address they during the course of my response . further education college be a vital part of the education system . it be important that we continue to support they and provide all the necessary tool to assist with ensure that they have good financial sustainability . that include the ability to respond to financial distress and , in its bad case , insolvency . land - base provision be an important part of the further education system , with strong link to the Government ' s mission to kick - start economic growth , support Britain ' s ecology and make it a clean energy superpower . Hadlow College , part of the North Kent College group , be the only land - base college in Kent . it have its own beef herd , sheep farm , horticultural production , a large animal management centre , fishery lake , a machinery and land - base technology facility , and equine centre . its curriculum include course in agriculture , agricultural engineering , animal management , equine management , fishery , floristry and horticulture , as well as some non - land - base course . it have an important place within the Kent skill system . Hadlow College have one main campus , in Hadlow . prior to be place into education administration , it be federate with another college , West Kent and Ashford College , a general further education college with campus in Ashford and Tonbridge . historically , in 2019 , the college face a series of financial challenge , result in a request to the Department for Education for exceptional financial support . at this time , the college continue to face significant creditor pressure , which be a key factor in the decision to place Hadlow College into education administration . combine , the college owe creditor approximately £ 100 million prior to education administrator be appoint . Hadlow College be place into education administration in May 2019 , follow by West Kent and Ashford College in August 2019 . follow the appointment of education administrator , they , in conjunction with the Department , stabilise the financial position of the college while a solution be seek to ensure that learner be protect without the college need to remain in education administration . the education administrator also hire an interim principal to run the college , with advice from a stakeholder education advisory board during this period . what follow be an intense period of option review , lead by the Further Education Commissioner , to determine the good future outcome for the college ' provision . this include invite interested party to make proposal to take on the provision . it should be note that Ofsted visit both college during the process and find that they be make reasonable progress with regard to educational performance . this result in the recommendation that North Kent College should acquire the Hadlow College ' s provision and its respective facility . the transaction be support with funding from the Department and be complete in August 2020 . at this point , I would also like to say that the protection of learner be achieve , which I will go on to explain far . alongside the Hadlow College education administration , the education administrator for West Kent and Ashford College also run an option review in conjunction with the Further Education Commissioner and invite interested party to take on the college ' s provision . this result in the recommendation that East Kent College should acquire the college ' s provision and its respective facility at the Ashford site . the transaction be support with funding from the Department and be complete in March 2020 . combine with the transaction at Hadlow College , together with other small , similar site between both college , more than 5 , 000 learner be protect through the education administration process . an investigation into any mismanagement at the college be undertake by the education administrator and then joint liquidator . this be a statutory lead investigation that apply not only to education administration , but to other insolvency process . the outcome of those investigation be detail in the joint liquidator ' progress report — publicly available at Companies House — but , in summary , they reach settlement agreement with the individual involve . the Department welcome the conclusion of the joint liquidator ' investigation into the conduct of certain relevant individual at Hadlow College and West Kent and Ashford College . the Department take the protection of public fund extremely seriously , and we will continue to support robust action where there be concern about the safeguarding of taxpayer ' money . as the right hon . Gentleman point out , there have be implication of the education administration of the college for the co - location of Hadlow rural community school . the school be originally establish by Hadlow College with a land - base specialism . the two organisation have governance link , and the school access the college ' s extensive land - base facility to deliver its offer . during the process of the college ' s education administration , separate governance arrangement for the school be establish and the Department work with the school to ensure that these arrangement be robust . the price for Hadlow rural community school to access the college ' s facility rise to the extent that it be no long sustainable within the school ' s budget , and the school have request departmental support to help it develop its own land - base facility . I appreciate that the school have undertake extensive work on proposal to the Department over a number of year to inform the official ' assessment , and I pay tribute to headteacher Paul Boxall , his team and the Hadlow rural community school trust board for all the work they have do and for the passion they have show in seek to ensure the very good for their pupil . however , this be a complex case and it be critical that any support the Department may provide offer value for taxpayer ' money . it be , of course , important that the school have clarity so that it can move forward with certainty and thrive . to be clear , Ministers value the school ' s land - base specialism and appreciate the challenge this situation have cause for the school , and we remain open to consider way to support the school to ensure it can continue to offer a high - quality and broad land - base curriculum . the recent decision the right hon . Gentleman refer relate not only to the Court Lane land , but to potentially significant capital investment to develop facility on that land , particularly with high - quality specialist facility at the neighbouring college . in the context of constrain public finance , Ministers decide that it do not offer good value for money . give those facility at Hadlow College , our view be that , rather than replicate such specialist and expensive facility next door , it be worth explore whether an agreement can be reach between the college and the school on share use of the college ' s facility . we understand that there will be complexity to that , and that it will be important to the school for any solution to offer security for the long term . should the two organisation agree to negotiate , we have offer support from official to try to help broker that , and , at the moment , this seem very likely . to be clear , we understand the school ' s desire for independence , and the Department have no intention of force the school to change its governance arrangement . we remain open to consider alternative proposal from the school . indeed , the school have recently suggest a new option , which official have agree to consider . the liquidation of both Hadlow College and West Kent and Ashford College remain open while the liquidator realise the remain surplus non - educational asset . again , the detail of those asset be in the joint liquidator ' progress report , available at Companies House , but , in summary , they relate to surplus plot of land in Hadlow . the liquidator ' strategy to realise the surplus land involve planning application for its inclusion in Tonbridge and Malling borough council ' s local plan , which would , if successful , enhance its value . the Department have priority security on all these remain land asset , and any realisation directly offset the cost of the education administration process and be effectively a return to the Department and the taxpayer . those asset , which be not surplus and be require by either North Kent College or East Kent College , be transfer to those respective college as part of the transaction to take on the learner and provision of Hadlow College and West Kent and Ashford College and achieve the objective of the education administration to protect those learner . I know that the right hon . Member have request a meeting , and I understand that that be in progress . I can assure he that we will continue to work with the joint liquidator to ensure the good possible outcome for taxpayer . we will also continue to work with North Kent College to ensure that the land - base and general further education provision in Hadlow continue to succeed for the benefit of its learner and for the right hon . member ' s constituency . question put and agree to . House adjourn .