Speaker ' s Statement before I start question , may I wish all member and their family the good for Christmas and a peaceful new year ? I thank all staff within the House of Commons — those in security , catering , Clerks , you name it — for all they do . it be appreciate . it have be another hard year , and I just hope we can have a peaceful world , peace in the middle east , and certainly peace in Europe . Oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — Landfill Tax Relief : Local Authorities if he will make an assessment of the potential merit of introduce landfill tax relief for local authority who be responsible for hazardous waste after company go into liquidation . a very merry Christmas to you and your staff , Mr Speaker . landfill tax provide an economic incentive to manage waste more sustainably , which have contribute to a 90 % reduction in local authority waste send to landfill in England since 2000 . however , it be not intend to act as a barrier to the remediation and redevelopment of contaminate land . in the autumn statement the Government announce the land remediation pathfinder fund , which will provide £ 78 million of target support to local and mayoral authority . happy Christmas , Mr Speaker . for two week now the old Supa Skips site in Lancaster have be burn , and it look as if Lancaster City Council will be leave to pick up the tab for the clean - up . some of that money have to be spend on landfill tax . will the Minister meet I and Lancaster City Council to discuss what option be open to my local council to ensure that local ratepayer be not leave foot the bill for rogue company that walk away from site , such as Supa Skips ? as I mention in my previous answer , the landfill tax have be hugely successful but it be never intend to act as a barrier to remediation . the fund that be announce in the autumn statement will be open for bid in early 2024 , and I encourage the hon . Lady ' s local authority to apply through the normal way . secondly , there be an ongoing review into the landfill tax , and reform of current exemption be within scope of that review . our belief be that the fund may offer more target support in the way that she desire . Anglesey freeport : North Wales Economy what recent assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of Anglesey freeport on the economy in North Wales . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . today be the funeral of former Chancellor Lord Darling , and if I may , I will make some comment about that in my topical statement . anglesey freeport will be a national and international hub for trade , innovation and commerce , regenerate community by attract new business , and spread job , investment and opportunity . Nadolig llawen pawb . I be delighted that the Chancellor extend freeport tax relief in England in his autumn statement . do he agree that if those extension be realise in Wales , it will give company the confidence to invest and help deliver the £ 1 billion investment , and thousand of job forecast for our Anglesey freeport ? will he join I in thank all those at the Isle of Anglesey County Council and Stena Line who work so hard recently to submit the outline business case ? I be happy to join my hon . friend in thank all those involve in promote the Anglesey freeport , which we think may create 5 , 500 job . we be work closely with the Welsh Government to agree on how the 10 - year window to claim relief can be extend across freeport in Wales . I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who have do more than anyone to put Ynys M ô n on the map . I call Jim Shannon — oh , sorry , Andrew Bridgen . thank you very much for do the funny , Mr Speaker . freeport can certainly be a catalyst of economic growth and prosperity in north Wales and the east midland , but they must be in the right place . put a freeport in North West Leicestershire , which already enjoy some of the high economic growth in the country , have low unemployment , and be capable of fill its industrial site without incentive , make little sense . will the Chancellor agree to meet I to discuss well alternative for the east midland than the Diseworth freeport site ? I would be happy to ask one of my colleague to meet the hon . Gentleman to discuss why freeport be not appropriate in his part of Leicestershire . Farm Budgets 2024 - 25 : Scotland what recent discussion he have have with his scottish counterpart on farm budget for the financial year 2024 - 25 . a very merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . the Government guarantee to maintain the £ 2 . 4 billion annual budget for farmer across the UK for every year of this Parliament . as agriculture be devolve , it be ultimately for the Scottish Government to decide how to allocate that money to farm in Scotland . the Minister will be aware of the frustration that be feel by many farmer and crofter in Scotland that the £ 33 million that be give to the Scottish Government for a specific purpose as part of the Bew review have be defer hitherto . what will she do in future to ensure that where money be give for the express purpose of support scottish agriculture , it be in fact use for that purpose ? the right hon . member raise an excellent question . the SNP Government be yet to clarify when this ringfenced money will be return . I hope they will do so this afternoon at the Budget . I call the SNP spokesperson . may I echo your comment , Mr Speaker , with Christmas wish for all the House staff , your staff and member ? the UK Government ' s attempt to overhaul the EU subsidy scheme have leave english farmer 50 % bad off in cash term than in 2020 . while the Scottish Government have seek to protect our farmer ’ payment , can the Minister guarantee that the UK Government will not try to undermine their payment and devolution by back - door use of the United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 ? I note that the hon . Member do not answer my question , nor that of the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) about when the ringfenced money will be return . order . question be normally to the Minister , not the other way around . very good point , but I still maintain that the hon . Member need to clarify that matter . it be up to the Scottish Government if they would like at any point to top up the amount that go to scottish farming . I encourage they to do so this afternoon at the Budget . I do not think any scottish farmer will be reassure by what the Minister have just say . I just say that the Scottish Government be protect those farmer ’ payment , while english farmer be lose out , as we know . what we do not have from the UK Government be detail on what they will be do after 2025 . if we have remain in the European Union , we would know that figure for farming subsidy so that the Scottish Government could make plan to help farmer plan ahead . can the Minister apologise for that situation and guarantee that in the early month of next year we will have clarity on farming payment ? the UK Government have lay out plan for the agriculture transition in England that go beyond the current spending review , give farmer increase certainty over policy and spending intent for year to come . the Scottish Government could decide to provide farmer in Scotland with similar certainty if they choose to do so . small business : Fiscal support what fiscal step his Department be take to support small business . a very jolly Christmas to you and all , Mr Speaker . small and medium - sized enterprise be the backbone of the economy , and we support they to thrive use lever across government . our small business rate relief mean that one third of business property in England already pay no business rate . we provide tax relief benefit sme , such as annual investment allowance and employment allowance , we support investment in sme through the British Business Bank programme and we fund the scheme offer sme training and advice . Merry Christmas to you and yours , Mr Speaker . the autumn statement be a huge success for small business across the country , with the Federation of Small Businesses describe it as " a game changer " . will my hon . friend outline to the House how the autumn statement package will benefit those small business in my constituency on which my town and village rely ? I thank my hon . friend for his continue support for small business in his constituency . measure in the autumn statement to help they include extend the retail , hospitality and leisure relief for another year , which will support around 230 , 000 property in England . that tax cut be worth nearly £ 2 . 4 billion . meanwhile , by freeze the small business multipli for a fourth consecutive year , we will be protect more than a million property from a multipli increase . other announcement that could benefit his constituent include the help to grow , management and make Smarter programme and move to tackle late payment . the new 55 - day payment rule will apply to only a few hundred company contract by the Government , yet microbusinesse , which do not typically have Government contract , wait on average 68 day for payment . those business make up the majority of small business across our country . why will the Government not back the Micro Business Alliance ' s " pay in 30 day " campaign ? as I mention , we be well aware of the issue of late payment , and we be in constant dialogue with the key stakeholder in this area , as well as colleague at the Department for Business and Trade . we will always keep an eye on the measure , but the move we have already make to tackle late payment , as announce recently , will make a big difference . reduce Taxes what step his Department be take to reduce taxis . what step his Department be take to reduce taxis . what step his Department be take to reduce taxis . thank to the difficult decision the Government have take on inflation and debt , the autumn statement this year be able to deliver the big package of tax cut to be score since 1988 . I very much welcome the tax cut recently announce by the Chancellor and hope to see more announce soon , especially a rise in the high rate threshold . as the Conservatives look to reduce the tax burden on work people , do the Chancellor share my concern that £ 28 billion - a - year unfunded spending commitment would likely see taxis rise and lead to high interest rate if Labour be ever in government ? it be not just I but Paul Johnson of the Institute for Fiscal Studies who , when talk about Labour ' s plan , have say that " additional borrowing … drive up interest rate " , which be , of course , a back - door tax rise on family with mortgage . but as it be Christmas , perhaps I could explain it this way : if Santa borrow £ 28 billion , he might have more toy to give out this year , but he would also have debt interest to pay and few toy to give out next year . record funding be go in to support the cost of childcare , to allow more parent to stay in the workforce . this be very welcome , but the tax burden on single - earner household put the choice to be a stay - at - home parent beyond the reach of too many . raise the young generation must count as a top investment , so may I ask my right hon . friend the Chancellor what recent analysis have be undertake on the transferable allowance ? at up to £ 252 per annum , it be currently not design to facilitate that choice . I thank my hon . friend for her question . as she know , the marriage allowance be currently £ 1 , 260 per year , and it have be fix at 10 % of the personal allowance since it be introduce in 2015 . on this side of the House , we believe it should be a woman ' s choice , and we want to make that choice as real as possible for every family . for that reason , we think the good thing we can do be to bring down the taxis pay by work people to put more money into the family budget , and we be happy to make a start on that in the autumn statement . like many of we in this place , I be a big supporter of Small Business Saturday , and it be important to remember that small business be the backbone of local community all year round . many be unlikely to be able to take advantage of the Chancellor ' s very generous and welcome expensing package , so what additional measure will he continue to consider to support all business great and small , include perhaps even corporation tax reduction ? I thank my right hon . friend for her question . she will know that 70 % of trading business only pay the low corporation tax rate of 19 % . that cover the vast majority of small business . I use to run my own business ; I run it for 14 year before I come into Parliament . I could not agree with her more : small business be the backbone of the british economy , which be why we be tackle the scourge of low payment and we roll over the 75 % discount on retail , hospitality and leisure business rate in the autumn statement . will the Chancellor confirm how much high the tax burden be forecast to be at the end , compare with at the start , of this Parliament ? what I can confirm be that , as a result of the measure I take in the autumn statement , it will be low at the end of the scorecard period than it would otherwise have be , and a lot low than it would be under any Labour Government . may I ask the Chancellor how many middle - income taxpayer have be pay the high rate of tax since 2019 ? I be happy to write to the hon . gentleman with the exact number , but for people on low income — people be pay the low legally payable wage — their post - tax real income have go up by 30 % since 2010 , because the conservative party believe in make work pay . why be the fiscal situation strong enough to cut national insurance , but not strong enough to return the overseas aid budget to 0 . 7 % of GNI ? because the way we return the overseas aid budget to 0 . 7 % be to grow the economy . by cut national insurance , we put nearly 100 , 000 more people into the national workforce , fill nearly one in 10 vacancy in company up and down the country . Banking Services : access what recent step he have take to help ensure people have access to banking service . the Government believe that all customer should have appropriate access to banking service , which be why we have legislate to protect access to cash . we also support the FCA ' s bank branch closure guidance as well as industry initiative to provide in - person access , include share banking hub at post office , and access via digital mean . More than 5 , 000 bank branch have close since 2015 . sadly , the Lloyds bank in Withington village will join the many more branch close in the come month and leave Withington without a bank branch , but by the end of the year the industry will have deliver only 30 share banking hub . do the Minister think that the pace and scale of that roll - out be good enough ? first , it be worth state that , as the hon . Gentleman know , the decision on whether to open or close branch be commercial one , and the Government do not interfere with that . however , we have legislate to protect access for cash . the bank need to abide by the Financial Conduct Authority ' s guidance , with the late guidance publish only last week . in relation to share banking hub , we should indeed increase the pace at which they be roll out , and I be talk with the industry about how to do that . it be pretty clear that most legacy bank do not give a stuff about their customer and just want to screw as much money out of people as possible . after the scandal of Coutts ' s debanking of Nigel Farage , the Government act swiftly to try to make that much more difficult for other customer , but many business face the same problem . what will the Government do to stop business be debanke in the same way as individual ? I be not sure that I quite accept my hon . friend ' s characterisation of the banking industry , but I be happy to meet he and discuss the problem he outline in relation to specific business and access to bank account . I call the shadow Minister . before I ask my question , I want to convey the apology of the shadow Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) . she be deliver the eulogy at Alistair Darling ' s funeral today . I want to say a few word about Alistair Darling — I be sure you will agree , Mr Speaker — a dedicated public servant , who be respect across both Houses . he lead the country ' s economic response to the global financial crisis with integrity , honesty and sound judgment , and we will all miss he . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] as my hon . friend the Member for Manchester , Withington ( Jeff Smith ) just say , nearly 6 , 000 bank branch have close since 2015 , and only 30 banking hub be up and fully run . that have leave countless people financially exclude and affect lot of small business . I ask the Minister once again : will he accelerate the roll - out of banking hub properly ? why be his Government not do anything to reverse the decline of the great british high street ? I agree with the hon . Lady ' s word about Lord Darling and echo the word of my right hon . friend the Chancellor . on bank branch , I will repeat my position : it be important that the Government do not decide when a branch open and when it close , but it be a concern when community be leave without appropriate access to cash . that be why we be the first Government to legislate for access to cash , as we do early this year , and that be why I believe we should speed up the roll - out of banking hub . I be work with the industry on way in which we can do that . if the Minister be serious about protect the future of the great british high street , will he back Labour ' s pledge , which have be welcome by Cash Access UK and the wide sector , to guarantee face - to - face banking in every community and give the FCA the power it need to roll out hundred of banking hub across the country ? as the hon . Lady know , the industry lead the roll - out of banking hub . we be support it — I say this again — to speed that up as much as possible . I have not see the labour pledge — I suspect that I will not support it — but it be important that the industry hear the view of constituent and member from across the House and that we speed up the roll - out of banking hub in community that need they . Pension scheme : Incentivising UK Investment what step his Department be take to incentivise pension scheme to invest in the UK . at the autumn statement , we set out a series of measure to improve pension saver return , increase opportunity for investment and boost the UK ' s capital market and high - growth company . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker , and to all those in the House . the UK ' s pension fund lag behind their counterpart in the USA , Scandinavia and Australia for invest in technology firm . can my hon . friend continue his work on reform and ensure that more pension fund investment stay in the UK , to boost our tech sector ? under the industry - lead Mansion House compact , 11 of the UK ' s large define contribution pension scheme have sign up to the objective of allocate at least 5 % of their fund to unlisted equity by 2030 . we believe that could unlock £ 50 billion of investment in high - growth company and should help increase return to saver . the Minister will appreciate that the great investment that anyone can make be in themselves and their own country — Northern Ireland and all the United Kingdom . what step can be take to ensure UK - wide investment by pension scheme in cut edge business such as Wrightbus and Thales ? there be a couple of thing that we need to do . we need to ensure that the industry abide by its commitment to the 5 % target . work with the Exchequer Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Grantham and Stamford ( Gareth Davies ) , we must present the right investment opportunity so that the capital go into the UK in the right way . taxation of Long and short - term Lets whether his Department be take fiscal step to reduce difference in the level of taxation between long and short - term let . the Government provide a different income tax regime for short - term let compare with long - term let if they qualify as furnish holiday let , for which there be stringent condition . as with all aspect of the tax system , the Government keep the tax treatment of property landlord under review . any decision on future change will be take by the Chancellor in the context of wide public finance . the change to landlord tax relief , which fully come in during the pandemic , exclude holiday let . that have contribute to a significant decline in residential landlord in tourist area like North Devon . the lack of affordable rental property have price out worker , particularly in the hospitality sector , result in business reduce their opening hour and therefore their tax contribution to the Treasury . can my hon . friend provide any hope of level the tax playing field to encourage long - term landlord back to the market ? I thank my hon . friend for her continued interest in this area on behalf of her constituent . the Government want to ensure a diverse and sustainable visitor accommodation offer while protect local community , include ensure the availability of affordable housing to rent or to buy . that be why we be introduce a registration scheme for short - term let in England , which will be a vital step towards achieve that aim . the Government keep the tax treatment of property landlord under review , but I would be happy to meet she to discuss these issue far . throughout Westmorland and Lonsdale we see people , particularly in social care , hospitality and tourism , eject from their community because of the collapse in the long - term rental market into a short - term rental market , principally through Airbnb . will the Minister go far on fiscal control to make sure that we keep home available for local people to live in ? will he put pressure on ministerial colleague to change planning law to make short - term let a separate category of planning use , so that community in the lake and the dale can prevent the collapse of their community into place only for those who can afford to visit ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment . we have talk about this topic in my previous role over many year . he be aware that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have publish a consultation on the introduction of a planning use class for short - term let . he will also be aware that , through the Levelling up and Regeneration Act 2023 , the Government have introduce a new power to allow council to apply a council tax premium on second home . there be progress in this area , but we be always open to new idea . creditor contact customer in debt : FCA what recent discussion he have have with the Financial Conduct Authority on how creditor contact customer in debt . I be pleased to speak at the launch of the Money and Mental Health Policy Institute ' s report on this subject last week , alongside the FCA . it be worth say that I use to be on the advisory board of that institute . the Government and the FCA will continue to work closely to ensure that consumer protection be fit for purpose , include through our upcoming reform of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 . a constituent who be a victim of domestic abuse and whose ex - husband fraudulently take out a loan in her name be constantly harass by creditor as she try to clear the debt , and , accord to a recent report by the organisation that the Minister mention , that be an experience share by other . will Ministers discuss with the FCA impose legal limit on arrear communication in case such as this , as other country have do ? let I say two thing . first , I pay tribute to the former Financial Secretary , now the Health Secretary — my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) — who do a great deal of work in relation to economic abuse . I be committed to continue that work with the Treasury to ensure that we limit the circumstance in which the incident describe by the hon . Lady can occur . as for the broad question of what the regulator do in such case , we have put a record level of funding , to the tune of some £ 93 million , into work with regulator on debt advice . I shall be happy to discuss with the hon . Lady the detail of how we can help her constituent in the way that she suggest . Household income : mortgage Interest Rates what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of change in mortgage interest rate over the course of this Parliament on household income . as the hon . Lady know , the path to lower interest rate be through low inflation , and the independent Bank of England have the Government ' s full support as it take action to return inflation to target . the Government ' s mortgage charter , broker by my right hon . friend the Chancellor early in the year , be available to 90 % of borrower . real disposable income per person be about £ 800 high than the Office for Budget Responsibility predict in its March forecast . the expiry of 1 . 5 million fix - rate mortgage deal next year will mean even more people pay sky high - cost . it come at a time when many be suffer increase financial hardship and personal debt , which be have an impact on their mental and physical health . do the Minister think it fair that family be pay hundred of pound more each month to cover the cost of the Government ' s mini - Budget disaster ? mortgage cost and interest rate have go up throughout the world , and we be in more or less the middle of the pack — they be high in the United States , for example — but what will definitely make thing hard for the hon . Lady ' s constituent , and indeed all our constituent , be borrow an extra £ 28 billion that will only serve to increase inflation and keep rate high for long . Living Standards : OBR Growth Forecasts what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of the OBR ' s growth forecast on living standard . what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of the OBR ' s growth forecast on living standard . what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of the OBR ' s growth forecast on living standard . the OBR revise up its growth figure after datum revision by the Office for National Statistics indicate the economy have recover more fully from the pandemic than have be expect , which mean that the current level of real gdp be nearly 3 % high than be predict in March forecast . the Government put a positive spin on the provisional local government finance settlement yesterday , but the Local Government Association say that it do not provide enough funding to meet the severe cost and demand pressure on council , and assume that all council would increase their tax bill by the maximum allow next year . what will that do for my constituent ' living standard ? as the hon . Lady will know , we put billion of pound into council this year , and the provisional settlement be above what be expect to be the inflation rate next year . if she have specific issue with her local council , I shall be happy to take that up with she . we have see one of the great fall in living standard in a generation , and the Chancellor have callously remove the household support fund from council . in Brighton the fund pay for free school meal voucher in the holiday , the warmth and wellbeing scheme , career centre , family hub , and food bank such as the one in Whitehawk where my constituency office have its surgery . will the Minister think again about scrap the household support fund , so that council can support the very bad off ? I want to reassure the hon . gentleman : no decision have be make about the household support fund . more broadly , however , we have pull in an average of £ 3 , 700 per household this year to help people with exactly what we be talk about . this Government be on the side of people during what be a very difficult time . accord to the Low Pay Commission , one in five people who should be receive the national minimum wage do not even get that . this be a huge failure of enforcement . how can we have increase living standard if people do not even receive the legal minimum to which they be entitle ? if the hon . Gentleman can give individual example , I ask he please to let we know . it be , obviously , extremely important that we enforce this , but I should point out that we will increase the level by 9 . 8 % next year , which will make a significant difference to household up and down the country . be not the more fundamental problem with the question pose by Opposition Members the fact that the OBR ' s forecast be never right ? all I can say be that they have definitely go in the right direction , because the economy next year will be billion of pound big than we think it be go to be in March . public Spending : value for Money what step he be take to ensure value for money in public spending . value for money be at the heart of Government spending and it be one of the key consideration for any decision involve the use of public fund across Government . as Chief Secretary , I be committed to tackle waste and promote productivity across the public sector . last year , Government official admit that they be pay company to burn and destroy 15 , 000 pallet of unusable personal protective equipment each month . do the Treasury have any idea how much waste PPE have go up in smoke this year ? during the pandemic our priority be absolutely clear : to get PPE to the frontline as quickly as possible . there be an unprecedented global increase in demand for PPE during the emergency response to the pandemic and item be procure at pace . the Department of Health and Social Care continue to seek to recover fraud loss to ensure that public fund be protect . I call the shadow Minister . throughout the pandemic , people across the country make extraordinary and heart - wrench sacrifice , yet as they do so , a small minority be instead make million of pound by rip off the taxpayer . with conflict of interest , defective good and exorbitant profit margin , it have be greedy and grubby and this Conservative Government have enable it all . as taxpayer , we want our money back , so Labour will create a covid corruption commissioner to chase down every pound we can . do the Minister have any idea just how angry people be that our country have be take for a ride ? the hypocrisy be absolutely astonishing . during the pandemic the shadow Chancellor write that the strategy of turn to big - name UK manufacturer be not deliver the supply that be need . yes , we procure thing very fast — we need to do that to get thing to the frontline — and we be try to get back every single penny that be lose to fraud , but we make no apology for do whatever we could to get PPE to the frontline as quickly as possible . the Minister ' s response really do not reflect the seriousness of the situation . this be not just one bad apple ; this be a rotten culture that go to the very top , with £ 8 . 7 billion lose on waste PPE and £ 7 . 2 billion lose to covid fraud . that be £ 15 . 9 billion of public money go at a time when people and public service be struggle . can the Minister remind the House who be Chancellor at the time that all of this be sign off ? I do not know what more I can add to my last answer . this be do very quickly , at pace , because we be desperate to get PPE to the frontline as quickly as possible . we have set up initiative to recoup money from fraudulent activity include the Public Sector Fraud Authority , which have already save taxpayer £ 311 million in the first year of operation . taskforce on nature - relate Financial Disclosures : recommendation if he will make mandatory the recommendation on reporting of the taskforce on nature - relate financial disclosure . this Government have be one of the large donor to the global market - lead taskforce on nature - relate financial disclosure — TNFD — initiative . we will consider how good the TNFD ' s recommendation should be incorporate into policy and legislative architecture in a manner that be coherent with global sustainability reporting . Merry Christmas to you , Mr Speaker , and to the officer , Clerks and staff of the House . I be encourage by my hon . friend ' s answer . it be a year ago today that the global biodiversity framework be agree in Montreal , and it be absolutely necessary to restore biodiversity loss . the TNFD initiative be launch by the UK G7 presidency in 2021 and it feature in the green finance strategy that my right hon . friend the Chancellor and I do the ministerial foreword to early this year . he will be aware of the recommendation that be launch in September . I be conscious that there be a lot of support from the Treasury previously and that we should try to accelerate the International Sustainability Standards Board standard so that we can bring in this initiative just as successfully as we have do for the tcfd — the taskforce on climate - relate financial disclosure . I thank my right hon . friend for her question . she mention the Treasury ' s green finance strategy , which contain plan to bring forward the sustainability disclosure requirement , build on the global commitment . we have already implement the climate - relate financial disclosure , and we be look very carefully at the nature - relate financial disclosure . we hope to update the House in due course . business Investment what step his Department be take to help increase the level of business investment . in the autumn statement , the Chancellor announce an ambitious growth package that will boost business investment by make full expensing permanent , by remove barrier to business investment , by reform our inefficient planning system , by speed up electricity grid connection time and by make £ 4 . 5 billion available for strategic manufacturing sector over the next five year , among other measure . I thank the Minister for that response . it be very welcome to see full expensing , which will help business to invest in the plant and machinery and the technology that be need . it would also help the ceramics sector , in particular , if it be exempt from the emission trading scheme . will my hon . friend speak to the Chancellor about the possibility of exempt the ceramics sector from the ETS , which would help to give the sector the breathing space to invest in productivity and energy efficiency gain ? I can think of few great champion for Stoke ' s ceramics sector than my hon . friend . we recognise that carbon leakage be a significant risk for the ceramics sector , so I can offer he two piece of information . first , we provide free allowance to the ceramics sector under the ETS . secondly , just yesterday we announce that ceramic will be include in the UK ' s carbon border adjustment mechanism . Fuel Duty : Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism if he will make an estimate of the potential impact of a carbon border adjustment mechanism in the form recommend by the Commission for Carbon Competitiveness on fuel duty . the Government have announce that they will implement a cbam from January 2027 . the UK CBAM will place a carbon price on some of the most emission - intensive industrial good import to the UK and will ensure that the UK ' s decarbonisation effort lead to a true reduction in global emission , rather than simply displace carbon emission overseas . the delivery of a cbam will be the subject of further consultation in 2024 . I congratulate the Minister . a cbam be the cheap and most future - proof way to save the planet and UK manufacturing job at the same time , but some of the detail look troubling . why have some manufacturing industry be leave out entirely ? why be other arrive late , so they will be vulnerable to dumping ? and how will he ensure that this be not just a tax and price rise for already hard - press family and business ? I recognise and thank my hon . friend for his work as chair of the Commission for Carbon Competitiveness . I will directly address his two main question . on speed , implementation by 2027 , at the late , will allow the Government to engage with business to ensure that they be well prepared , but next year ' s consultation will provide more information on timing . we have identify eight sector that have the great exposure to carbon leakage , from both a trade and an emission perspective . investment zone what progress he have make on the introduction of investment zone . since the spring Budget , the Government have announce seven of the eight english investment zone and confirm the location of four place eligible to host investment zone in Scotland and Wales . the Government be commit to ensure that funding and tax site go live in the 2024 - 25 financial year . I welcome the investment zone in Nottinghamshire and derbyshire . will the Minister confirm that some of the benefit of these zone be not only available in the small number of large site but be available to any business across the whole zone to apply for ? my hon . friend be right to recognise the east midland investment zone , which will bring significant benefit across the region in the advanced manufacturing and green industry sector . I be pleased to tell he that it start with a £ 9 . 3 million anchor investment and , over time , will leverage some £ 323 million in private investment , support 4 , 000 job overall . inflation what step he be take to reduce inflation . inflation have now halve from 11 . 1 % in October 2022 to 4 . 7 % in October 2023 , deliver on the Prime Minister ' s pledge . this have happen not by accident but as a result of difficult decision make by the Government and the Bank of England — Government decision that be oppose every step of the way by the Labour party . thank you for call I to ask a question while I catch my breath , Mr Speaker ! a major component of inflation over this past year have , of course , be the energy price shock . what be the Government do to ensure the continue expansion of renewable energy so that we have great energy security , and so that we be more resilient in the face of energy price shock from overseas ? my right hon . friend be right , and she nail the delivery of her question while out of breath . at the autumn statement , the Chancellor announce measure that demonstrate the Government ' s ongoing commitment to renewable energy as a priority growth sector essential to our energy security and net zero ambition . the announcement make include a new investment exemption from the electricity generator levy and a £ 960 million green industry growth accelerator . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . today be the funeral of Lord Darling , who will be greatly miss by many in this House , as well as by Maggie and his family . civil servant be know for be good at conceal their private feeling about more challenging Ministers , but that be never necessary with Alistair Darling . he be Chief Secretary to the Treasury and then Chancellor during the global financial crisis , and despite the many stress and strain of that period , he be uniformly admire and much love for his kindness , decency and dry sense of humour . he take decision in that period that have stand the test of time and put he on the small list of Chancellors whom history will remember for wise decision making in an unprecedented crisis . we will always remember he . finally , Mr Speaker , may I wish you and all the staff in the House a merry and peaceful Christmas ? I , too , send my full sympathy . I also wish everyone across the House a merry Christmas . industry have fully support the Prime Minister ' s vision of the UK become a cryptocurrency hub , but many licensed company be still find it difficult to open bank account here . so will the Chancellor meet the all - party group on crypto and digital asset to discuss what progress can be make on digital Britain ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for ask that question , because the UK , and London in particular , have become the global crypto hub . to make sure that the market can really take off in the way that be intend — in a responsible way — we need to regulate it , which be why we have introduce regulation on stablecoin and on the promotion of crypto service . my hon . friend the Economic Secretary to the Treasury would be more than happy to meet she . I call the shadow Minister . Merry Christmas to you and to the House , Mr Speaker . let I start by thank the Chancellor for his kind word about the late Lord Darling , which I think show the gratitude of member from across the House for his lifetime of public service . the public have a right to know why so many billion of pound of their taxis have be waste by this Government . Baroness Mone have claim today that Conservative Ministers know about her personal connection to the company PPE Medpro from the very beginning . so why do the Government not correct the record when a misleading picture be be paint in the medium about Baroness Mone ' s personal connection to PPE Medpro in the first place ? I be not go to comment on allegation by Baroness Mone or , indeed , on the individual case , but let I say this : we put together a taskforce of more than 1 , 000 people that open 46 , 000 investigation and so far have make more 80 arrest , so we will stop at nothing to tackle fraud and bring to justice anyone who be responsible for wrongdoing . but what we do in a moment of extreme crisis be to make sure that we get personal protective equipment to the frontline as quickly as we could , and have we not do so many more life would have be lose . we all know that Baroness Mone ' s enrichment via PPE Medpro be subject to an investigation , but that do not allow Ministers to refuse to answer question here in the House today . so let I ask another : Baroness Mone ' s husband , Doug Barrowman , allege that in November 2022 he be approach by a Government official ask if they would " pay more for the other matter to go away . " be that specific and incredibly serious claim now be investigate and , if so , by whom ? if the hon . Gentleman have any evidence of people behave improperly or illegally , he should tell the police , and he will get the full support of this Government and the whole House in bring the matter to justice . but let I just say to he that any responsible opposition should understand that in a crisis there be a trade - off between speed and take long to prevent fraud , and we take the right decision to save as many life as possible . I be hear from a concern number of small business in my constituency that they be slow down as they approach the vat threshold , rather than do what the whole economy need they to do and go for growth . ahead of the spring Budget , will my right hon . friend look at substantially shift the vat threshold upwards ? my hon . friend be a great advocate for small business . the Government recognise that account for vat can be a burden on business , but that be why , at £ 85 , 000 , the UK have a high vat registration threshold than any EU member state and the second high in the OECD , keep the majority of UK business out of vat altogether . in the 2022 autumn statement , it be announce that the vat threshold would be maintain at its current level until 31 March 2026 . as always , the Government keep taxis under review . I echo the Chancellor ' s generous and well - judge tribute to Alistair Darling . at the autumn statement , the Chancellor say — mistakenly , as it turn out — that the household support fund be be extend into the next financial year ; the Chief Secretary to the Treasury clarify the position a few moment ago . do the Chancellor recognise that there be a compelling case for he to announce exactly that extension in the Budget , so that council can continue to provide the last - resort safety net that have be such a valuable feature of the household support fund over the last three year ? I recognise the important role the household support fund have play . as my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say early , no decision have be make about what will happen go forward . there be a lot of anti - poverty measure in the autumn statement , include increase benefit next year by double the rate of inflation , increase the full - time national living wage by £ 1 , 800 a year and increase the local housing allowance , provide an average of an extra £ 800 to 1 . 6 million household . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker , to you , your team and the Treasury team . between now and the next Treasury question , million of our constituent will be require to file a self - assessment tax return , yet this week we learn that his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have suddenly shut down its hotline for the majority of people and their adviser . our most law - abide citizen be try to get their taxis right , so what advice can my hon . friend the Financial Secretary to the Treasury give to they as to how they can contact HMRC ? I thank my hon . friend the Chair of the Treasury Committee for raise this issue with I . we want to ensure that people can be serve accurately and effectively through the most efficient channel . two third of call to the self - assessment line could be resolve online , through other channel — I highly recommend the app , for example . last year , HMRC receive over 3 million call on three issue — reset a password , get a tax code and get a national insurance number — that could easily be resolve digitally . People will still be able to call in , but we need to redeploy resource away from very simple question towards those most in need , which will help those who be digitally unaware . Mr Speaker , I wish you , your staff and everyone across the House a very happy Christmas . it have be report that the Prime Minister instruct a £ 40 million vip helicopter service that have be earmark for closure to continue to provide he with flight . will the Treasury publish a cost - benefit analysis of that decision for taxpayer to see ? I do not know the detail of the issue raise by the hon . Lady , but I assure she that the Treasury be ferocious in its determination to ensure that every penny of the public ' s money be spend wisely . the electrification of the north Wales main line have be a vital issue to Delyn and the rest of north Wales for many year . back in 2015 , when it be judge as cost about £ 850 million , it be kibosh by the Treasury as not be value for money . now that it be expect to cost over £ 1 billion , will the Chancellor guarantee that the project will definitely go ahead and that the Treasury will not put a stop on it again ? I will write to the hon . Gentleman . Mr Speaker , I wish you , those across the House and my constituent a very merry Christmas . People in rural area suffer more than their urban counterpart because of the rural premium they encounter in their daily life . with food inflation at around 10 % , people in Somerton and Frome be once again face a choice between heating and eat . what recent assessment have the Department make of the effect of inflation on food price ? I know that the hon . Lady will have welcome the most important change to cost of living pressure , which be inflation come down . in addition , we have have the cost of living payment this year , and also benefit go up by 10 . 1 % this year and by more than the expect level of inflation next year . we as a Government have do all we can to support people and will continue to do so . Mr Speaker , as mine be the last name on the Order Paper , may I wish you and Mrs Speaker , and the two Front - Bench team , a very happy Christmas ? notwithstanding his predilection for myrrh and frankincense , may I ask the Chancellor to comment on the state of our gold reserve and whether , in a world where peace to all man seem to be in rather short supply at the moment , he anticipate add to they in 2024 ? as I go to carol service over the festive period , I will make sure that I be suitably inspire by what the three wise man bring to the crib . I can tell my hon . friend that I be actually visit our gold reserve this week , so I will see at first hand just how important they be . right now , council leader up and down the country be have to make very difficult decision on cut vital service — not because of profligacy , but because of Government cut to their funding . what step be the Chancellor take to ensure that local authority — such as that in York , which be the lowest - fund area — be adequately fund ? the hon . Lady will have hear my answer to a previous question where I state that we have put billion of pound of extra money into local government this year to cover pressure . we recognise that those pressure be real , which be why the provisional settlement propose an above - inflation rise for next year . a fortnight ago , Kaye Adams , a tv presenter , win her case against his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs on IR35 status . despite the fact that she win her first tax tribunal on the issue , HMRC take she to either a tribunal or court four time over a nine - year period , force she to spend £ 200 , 000 in legal fee . HMRC spend many time that , use two King ' s counsel at the last hearing alone . this be over a net tax bill of £ 70 , 000 . there be no conceivable economic case for that . what HMRC be try to do be move the guideline by coerce Ms Adams and use she as an example to intimidate other self - employ worker to give in to HMRC ' s bully . this be a disgrace . it have go on for too long . the 2021 revision be inadequate and ministerial oversight be too weak . when will the Government review IR35 and , ideally , abolish it ? it be our duty to ensure that everyone pay the right tax under the law regardless of wealth or status . we note the decision of the tribunal and will carefully analyse the outcome before consider the next step , but the off - payroll rule ensure that people who work like employee , but through their own limited company , be tax like employee , create a level playing field for other worker . UK capital requirement regulation mandate a 50 % level of capitalisation to be hold by lender for long term as oppose to 20 % for short term . car manufacturer bank , such as Renault ' s RCI Financial Services , underpin every franchise car dealer across these island and operate on a seven - day notice period to terminate in order to minimise their capital requirement at 20 % . the problem arise when a bank such as RCI maladminister a serious activity report , panic over its obligation under the regulation and terminate an award - win Renault , Nissan and Dacia dealer such as Mackie Motors in my constituency with seven day ' notice . will the Chancellor or one of his Ministers meet I to discuss this crisis ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . indeed , I will meet he to discuss the matter to make sure that this regulation do not have the adverse effect that he have outline . since the Prime Minister ' s speech on net zero in September , Nissan have announce a £ 2 billion investment in Sunderland , which come hot on the heel of Tata ' s £ 4 billion investment in battery . EDF Masdar have announce an £ 11 billion investment in offshore wind in Dogger Bank . in his autumn statement , the Chancellor announce a tripling of tidal energy contract for difference . we have 11 hydrogen project announce last week . there be six company bid for small modular reactor . [ interruption . ] be it not the case that , hot on the heel of yesterday ' s announcement of a £ 6 billion allocation of energy efficiency funding and the carbon border adjustment mechanism — order . we have this last time with you . I ' m sorry , but I be try to be generous because it be Christmas . do not take advantage of other member ; I still have other to get in . it be just not fair , and it be very selfish to carry on when I have ask you not to . I do not find it acceptable . I look forward to the apology shortly . would someone like to answer that question , briefly ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question and for his campaigning on these issue . I just note that on electric vehicle manufacturing alone , the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders say that in the past year we have have more investment pledge for UK electric vehicle than in the previous seven year combine . the life science sector be worth £ 2 . 4 billion to the Northern Ireland economy . what step have be take , with counterpart in the Northern Ireland Assembly , to increase funding for employment within this worthy sector ? the hon . Gentleman be quite right that life science be one of the key growth industry for this country . I would be happy to meet he to discuss all the thing we be do for the sector , particularly in Northern Ireland . our economy continue to be impact by the war in Ukraine and denial across the Black sea , and we now must brace ourselves for further economic shock as global shipping avoid the Red sea . do the Minister agree that we should be protect these shipping lane ? our Navy be now too small by half to protect our maritime interest , so will he now look at invest in our surface fleet to protect our economy ? as my right hon . friend know , I have long believe in the importance of invest in our armed force , but that ultimately depend on a strong economy that will pay for sustained investment , and that be what be happen under this government . will the Chancellor update the House on how he plan to move forward with some of the key recommendation from Lord Harrington ' s review into foreign direct investment in the UK ? I be happy to do that . in fact , I host a reception for Lord Harrington and the people responsible for that review last week . we will start by increase the budget of the Office for investment so that it can give a more bespoke service to potential overseas investor . we be all mindful of the need to control public finance and slim the civil service , but can my right hon . friend reassure my constituent that the Darlington Economic Campus will receive the job that be promise , and will he give consideration to my proposal to name their permanent home of DEC William McMullen House , in recognition of the sacrifice William make for people of Darlington ? my hon . friend be a brilliant advocate for his constituency . I hear what he have to say and I be happy to meet he to talk about it . my right hon . friend be well aware of the threat to thousand of job at Scunthorpe steelwork and many more in the supply chain that support it , all of which would have a devastating effect on the economy of northern Lincolnshire . can he and his colleague in the Department for Business and Trade bring a speedy conclusion to the negotiation and lift the cloud over Scunthorpe ? I thank my hon . friend for his campaigning on that issue and reassure he that we in the Treasury completely understand how vital steel be to the future of his area and to his constituent . we will continue to do everything we can to resolve the situation as quickly as possible . Israel and Gaza ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Minister if he will make a statement on the situation in Israel and Gaza . the whole House will be gravely concern about the desperate situation in Gaza . it can not continue , and we be deploy all our diplomatic resource , include in the United Nations , to help find a viable solution . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her urgent question and for the private message from Gaza that she have make available to I , and I look forward to meet she in the Foreign Office tomorrow . the scale of civilian death and displacement in Gaza be shocking . I be particularly disturb to hear about the situation of civilian trap in the Holy Family church complex in Gaza City , the lack of water and food , and report of sniper fire cause civilian death inside the complex . although Israel have the right to defend itself against terror , restore its security and bring the hostage home , it must abide by international law and take all possible measure to protect civilian . no one want to see this conflict go on for a moment long than necessary . we recognise the sheer scale of the suffering , and be appal at the impact on civilian . we urgently need more humanitarian pause to get all the hostage out and lifesave aid in . we welcome the recent opening of the Kerem Shalom cross to help achieve that , but it be not enough . our immediate priority be to secure the release of british hostage , to show solidarity with Israel in defend itself against Hamas while comply with international humanitarian law , and to call for such pause , both at the UN and directly with Israel , to ensure that emergency aid can be distribute in Gaza , include fuel , water and medicine . the Foreign Secretary will discuss the situation in Gaza with regional leader this week in his visit to Egypt and Jordan . the Government have recently announce an additional £ 30 million of british aid , triple the UK aid budget for the Occupied Palestinian Territories this financial year . to date , we have deliver 74 tonne of aid , but there be still more to do . casualty number be far too high , and we be call on Hamas to release each and every kidnap hostage . we be also actively explore other route for aid into Gaza , include maritime option . of course , as both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have say , ultimately this must end . we of course want to see an end to the fighting , but it must be a sustainable ceasefire , mean that Hamas must stop launch rocket into Israel and must release the hostage . More than 130 hostage be still unaccounted for . they must be release immediately and return to their family . to achieve long - term peace in the middle east , a viable two - state solution be need . leave Hamas in power in Gaza would be a permanent roadblock on the path to that ; no one can be expect to live alongside a terrorist organisation commit to their destruction and dedicate to repeat those attack . I be extremely grateful to you , Mr Speaker , for grant the urgent question , and I thank the Minister for his response . let I begin by point member towards my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — I be an unpaid adviser to International Centre of Justice for Palestinians . I have speak before in the House about my extended family who be in the Holy Family parish church in Zeitoun , Gaza . the situation have be desperate for week but be now descend far . there be tank outside the gate , and soldier and sniper point into the complex and shoot at anyone who venture out , and the convent be bomb . on Saturday , two woman be shoot . they be simply try to get to the toilet . there be no electricity or clean water , and the update that I have last night be that they be down to their last can of corn . I be tell that , after pressure , food have be deliver , but they have not see it . when this begin a week ago , the Israel Defence Forces soldier order those civilian to evacuate against their will . can the Government confirm that they see the forcible displacement of civilian as unacceptable ? the people in the church be civilian . they have nothing to do with Hamas . they be nun , orphan and disabled people ; they be a small christian community and they know everyone . as the Pope have say , and as my family can confirm , it be categorically untrue to say that Hamas be operate from there . the situation have be condemn by many . will the Government condemn it ? it be important to stress that the suffering be not confine to just that church . just last week , we see the utterly tragic death of three israeli hostage . other be report to have be murder by Hamas , and 100 be still in captivity . that be also unacceptable . seventy - three day on in this conflict , the death toll be only rise . it be time for the international community to say that this violence be now make peace hard , not easy . the UK Government talk now of a sustainable ceasefire , and although I and the liberal Democrats welcome the change in tone , it be unclear whether that be in fact a change in position . will the Government demand an immediate bilateral ceasefire ? will they change how they vote at the UN Security Council as a result ? when will the Prime Minister accept that the only route to peace be political , not military — that there be one way to get rid of Hamas and end the humanitarian catastrophe , and it be not this ? when will the United Kingdom fulfil its historical obligation to the region and recognise Palestine as a first step towards deliver the two state , which be the only way to guarantee security and dignity for Israelis and Palestinians ? I thank the hon . Lady for her comment . I understand how deeply distress this be for she , with her family catch up in the Holy Family church complex . as I say in my response , I be grateful to she for the harrowing update she be able to give I direct from the Holy Family church . I be very pleased to hear that she think food have be deliver — we will follow up on that point directly after this urgent question . the hon . Lady talk about the protection of civilian ; the british Government make absolutely clear that international humanitarian law must be abide by . she also mention humanitarian aid ; we understand that yesterday 191 truck enter the Gaza strip , 127 through Rafah and 64 through Kerem Shalom , which be a new avenue that we very much welcome . finally , on the point she make about the United Nations , we be work with partner on a resolution , and I expect there will be a vote at 3 pm today , UK time . that be what we be work towards , and while the position be not yet clear , we be hope to support that resolution . while walk to Parliament yesterday , I politely challenge a driver who have selfishly park his car in the bus lane lead on to Chelsea bridge so that he could buy a coffee at the nearby kiosk . when I suggest he move it give the traffic chaos it be cause , he blankly refuse , begin swear at I , threaten to throw my phone in the river if I take a photo of he , and then call I a racist and a Zionist . sadly , that illustrate how hate and intolerance here in the UK be be fuel by event in the middle east . this conflict be now in its third month , with no end in sight , no clarity from Israel as to how long the occupation will last , and the death toll be mount . do the Minister agree that without concerted international intervention , the conflict will escalate ? I be appalled to hear about the way in which my right hon . friend be treat on his way into the House of Commons . we be stress the importance of a more surgical approach by the Israeli Defence Forces and be work towards a more sustainable cessation of hostility . we recognise that there be too many casualty , and we be press forward on what be the policy of both the Government and the opposition : more extensive humanitarian pause , so that aid can get into Gaza . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I be grateful to the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) for secure this very important urgent question . may I say how deeply sorry I be to hear of the terrifying experience face her family in Gaza ? I be sure the whole House be with she and her relative at what must be an incredibly difficult time . the report from the Holy Family Catholic church be shocking : an innocent mother and daughter kill in the ground of a church , with other too scare to leave and now run out of food . once again in this conflict , a place of sanctuary and peace have become a scene of fear and death . it be one example of the ongoing humanitarian catastrophe confront civilian across Gaza , and a reminder of the urgent imperative to address this crisis and help bring about the condition for a sustainable ceasefire . it come at a moment of grow concern that this conflict could escalate , with Hezbollah in the north , more violence in the west bank , and Houthi threat in the Red sea . we support effort to maintain regional security , and Labour welcome the UK ' s participation in the new maritime security effort . we thank our armed force personnel for their service and professionalism . today , the United Nations Security Council be vote once again on a resolution . this be a crucial chance to address the urgent and catastrophic situation in Gaza . let I be clear : Labour want a resolution to pass , one that can protect civilian life , that demand that hostage be release , and that can act as a stepping stone towards a sustainable ceasefire and provide renew impetus towards a two - state solution . the time have come for the United Kingdom to support our international ally at this critical moment . I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary for his comment . we be , as he know , very committed to try to make sure that there be no escalation . I thank he for his welcome for the US - lead work to secure maritime security , and I also thank he for his comment , particularly at this time of year , about our armed force . I have already comment on the UN Security Council resolution , which I hope will be vote on this afternoon ; like he , I hope that agreement can be reach . on the issue of the humanitarian catastrophe to which the shadow Foreign Secretary refer , I can tell he that there be some movement this week . there be 50 World Food Programme truck ready at Allenby bridge to travel through Israel to Kerem Shalom , and if sign off , that will provide a new route through to Gaza . we have make available some money to the World Food Programme — it be available today — to enhance that route if it open . all of we abhor the loss of innocent civilian life in Israel and Gaza , but talk of a " sustainable ceasefire " be unhelpful . all it do be give succour to Israel ' s enemy at the time of its great need . this be a country that fall to its knee just a few week ago and suffer the bad tragedy since the holocaust . now it be try to eliminate Hamas and to free the hostage , some of whom be british citizen . let it finish the job , let it protect israeli security , and in do so , let Israel protect our security as well . while it be true that weapon have be discover in incubator in a hospital in Gaza , nevertheless I do not agree with my right hon . friend . we be work towards a sustainable ceasefire . we be not there yet , but we should all of we be work towards that . in the meanwhile , on the pathway to a sustainable ceasefire , we need urgently to get these humanitarian pause so that humanitarian relief can enter Gaza . I call the SNP spokesperson . I , too , send my very good wish to the family of the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) . as we know , later today the Government ' s call for a sustainable ceasefire will be test at the UN Security Council . if the Government again decide to abdicate their responsibility to humanity and abstain , they will be give Netanyahu the political cover he need to prosecute a war in which ten of thousand have already be kill and in which , at the weekend , accord to the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem , " a sniper of the IDF murder two woman inside the Holy Family Parish in Gaza . " if the UK be unable to support a ceasefire now , when will it ? what have to happen before this Government say enough be enough , and that the indiscriminate killing of innocent , the blanket bombing of civilian infrastructure and the killing of journalist have to stop now ? how many more breach of international humanitarian law will it take for this Government to find the moral courage to say , " this have to stop , and it have to stop now " ? I do not think this be an issue of moral courage . the Government , with the support of those on the Opposition Front Bench , be do what we believe to be right . we have be very clear that Israel have a right to defend itself , but it must do more to diminish and minimise the number of civilian casualty . on the point the hon . Member make about the United Nations resolution , which we hope will be pass this afternoon , as I have say , skilled british diplomat in New York be engage in talk throughout the United Nations to try to make sure that that resolution land in the way both he and I want . I welcome the call from the Foreign Secretary for a sustainable ceasefire , and I welcome my right hon . friend ' s word from the Dispatch Box today . over the weekend , the Foreign Secretary receive two letter , one from 10 Back Benchers on this side of the House and another from a group of foreign policy expert , call for a permanent ceasefire . the last truce result in over 80 hostage be release and hundred of life be save . do my right hon . friend accept that a permanent ceasefire would reap similar result ? it be true that the Foreign Secretary receive a letter over the weekend , sign by 10 colleague , which state : " it be widely accept across the world that last security for Israel , peace for the Palestinians , an end to the killing , and the defeat of Hamas , can only be achieve through politic and diplomacy and the establishment of two state . " that be very much the view of the Government as well . the Minster have clearly see the communiqu é from the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem , point out the atrocity commit in the ground of the Holy Family church , with two people murder and at least seven wounded . that show a shocking lack of fire control discipline by the israeli force . will the Minister raise with the israeli force my grave concern , and those of many colleague across the House , that that be not acceptable ? there be no need for I to raise it with the israeli force , because they be themselves conduct an inquiry into the matter . at Gaza ' s Kamal Adwan Hospital last weekend , approximately 80 Hamas fighter be arrest , some of whom take part in the 7 October massacre . Weaponry , Hamas intelligence , and military and technological equipment be recover , and report suggest that hospital staff direct the Israel Defence Forces to weapon that Hamas have store inside incubator for premature baby . will my right hon . friend join I in condemn Hamas for those appalling war crime , and do he agree that that incident underline Hamas ' s disregard for civilian human life in Gaza ? my hon . friend be right to point to those report . as I mention early , there have be report of weapon find in incubator , in particular in Kamal Adwan Hospital . I be sure that every Member of this House condemn without qualification the appalling event perpetrate by Hamas , start on 7 October . do the Minister agree with Cardinal Vincent Nichols ' s version of event that take place in the compound of the Holy Family church ? the right hon . Lady will understand that I be not in a position to make that judgment , but I have hear with great respect what the Cardinal Archbishop of Westminster have say . all of we be deeply sympathetic to the plight of our jewish brother after the October pogrom , and most of we accept the argument that an immediate ceasefire would have play into the hand of Hamas , but I think on these bench the mood be change . frankly , what Israel be do be totally unacceptable . this be indiscriminate bombing of vast civilian population . leave aside the outrage at the Holy Family church , it be simply not in the long - term interest of Israel that it radicalise whole generation of arab youth . it be not in our interest , either , to be involve in any way on the side of Israel do that . we must up the rhetoric and condemn that unequivocally . my right hon . friend will have see the article co - author by the Foreign Secretary and his german counterpart . he be right to refer to the pogrom that be instigate in October , and also to the importance of a sustainable ceasefire and respect for international humanitarian law . in my view , the answer to his final point be that the moment there be an opportunity to advance a political track , it must be seize by the region , and Britain will do everything it can to support that . we should all thank the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) for her steadfastness and for secure this urgent question . eighteen thousand people have now die across the Gaza strip , and Israel be use food , water and medicine as weapon of war against a civilian population . there be 8 , 000 miss people under the rubble . as she say , a political solution be require , not a military one . can the Minister assure the House that the vote today will bring about a ceasefire , and that it will stop the escalation of the war into the Red sea and the Mediterranean , and start to address the underlying issue , which be of course Israel ' s occupation of the west bank , the refugee all around the world , and the continued siege of Gaza , which have go on for decade ? we must have the start of a long - term process that bring about real justice for the palestinian people , or we will be back here again with more war crime , more death , more destruction , and the horror for decade to come . the right hon . Gentleman be entirely right to focus on the United Nations Security Council resolution , which we hope will be pass this afternoon . that be the way we move the situation forward towards the political track that both he and I want to see as rapidly as possible . we all welcome the humanitarian pause that see the release of a number of hostage , and aid deliver into Gaza . on 1 December , the seven - day pause collapse follow the firing of rocket into Israel from Gaza . Hamas also fail to provide a daily list of hostage to be release by 7 am , in a further violation of the truce . will the Minister join I in criticise Hamas for violate the truce agreement , once again prove that they be no partner for a last peace between Israelis and Palestinians ? the House will note what the hon . Gentleman have say . I assure he that we be do everything we can to get humanitarian support into Gaza , include focus specifically on any maritime opportunity . the Royal Fleet Auxiliary Lyme Bay be load with supply in Cyprus , and be ready to sail once we can be assure that the support can be receive and deliver . with almost 20 , 000 death in Gaza , my constituent in Bolton be ask , " when be ' enough ' enough ? " with 153 country vote for a ceasefire , when be a " sustainable ceasefire " a ceasefire that happen now ? member of Noorul Islam mosque in Bolton recently visit Egypt to try to get aid across the border into Gaza . will the Minister meet I to discuss way that we can work with the egyptian Government and other partner to ensure that aid can get from Bolton into Gaza ? I thank my hon . friend for what he have say today , and for the information and work from his community in Bolton that he be make available to the Foreign Office . of course I shall be pleased to see he at a mutually convenient time . last week I attend a briefing with Professor Ghassan Abu Sitta , a heroic british palestinian doctor who have just return from Gaza . because the israeli siege prevent medical supply from enter Gaza , he tell we he have to use vinegar and wash up liquid to sterilise wound , even on the night when he perform amputation on six child . he recount their scream , and the desperation of their parent . I pay tribute to Professor Ghassan , but it will forever shame this House that the dying and the wound who he treat be bomb and maim by Israel with the approval of this place . will the Government finally listen to the grow global call and demand an immediate ceasefire ? the hon . Lady ' s eloquent intervention underline the importance of achieve a sustainable ceasefire in the way set out by the Foreign Secretary in his article at the weekend . over the weekend the Israelis uncover the large ever Hamas tunnel , at 2 . 5 mile long . the brother of Hamas ' s leader have be see drive through the tunnel as he hide beneath Gaza ' s civilian population . the Minister have already speak about 70 Hamas fighter surrender at a hospital where there be firearm in incubator for premature baby . do he agree that those be important reminder of Hamas ' s appalling use of human shield , of why Hamas must no long brutalise Gaza ' s population and terrorise Israelis , and of why the UK would be completely wrong to call for a ceasefire before the threat of Hamas be remove ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his comment . I suspect that on both side of the House there be no need for a reminder of the horrific event that Hamas have perpetrate , on 7 October and since . as he will understand , we be try to ensure that the hostage be release as swiftly as possible , that the rocket stop , and that we be able to move to a political process as soon as feasible . hundred of british Palestinians have see multiple generation of their relative kill , their family home destroy and their future in Gaza decimate . I put on record my thank to the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) and my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) for organise the move event with Professor Ghassan Abu Sitta . it be a packed room , and not a single eye be dry as we listen to he speak about the horrific situation in the hospital . have either the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary or the Minister meet any british palestinian family , include those who have recently return from Gaza , to witness how they have be affect by Israel ' s indiscriminate strike ? my understanding be that both the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister have have access to that information . the hon . Gentleman make a plea for those difficulty to end , and I hope he will accept that the Government be do everything we can to fulfil what he want to see and what we want to see . there be nothing morally courageous about argue for the people who commit the atrocity on 7 October — the rapist and murderer who cross into Israel on that day — to remain in power , which be what those who be demand a ceasefire with Hamas be ask for . that be the reality . I fear sometimes , listen to what be say here , that some people hope Israel do not succeed in achieve its aim of wipe out this horrendous terrorist cult . while there may be a letter from some colleague that barely reach double figure , very many of we on the Government Benches have be proud of the strong stand and moral clarity that the Government have have in support Israel after what happen on 7 October , and I hope that continue . my hon . friend make a good point . we be determined that we will end up with a situation where the Palestinians can run their own territory , where the arab state be heavily involved , and where a political initiative be regionally lead . lot of international work , support and help be require , but we have to get to a point where we can see that political track take shape . ahead of today ' s UN Security Council vote , a group of foreign policy and military expert , include the former chief of the UK armed force , General Richards , have call for the Foreign Secretary to support an immediate ceasefire at the UN Security Council . many have long argue for that , but it can be achieve at the UN Security Council only if the US stop vetoing resolution . I welcome what the Minister have say about hope that the UK will support such a resolution , but can he say more about what our Government be do in the next two hour to convince the US at the minimum to abstain on the resolution to allow it through , or to support it ? the hon . Lady will know that Britain always take a lead role in the drafting and execution of these resolution . I can tell she that skilled british diplomat be use this time to try to secure an agreement on the Security Council resolution , which I hope may be pass tonight . I can give she no guarantee of that , but I can give she a guarantee that british diplomat be work flat out to achieve it . I thank the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) for her important urgent question . I hope that food will be take to the Holy Family church shortly . I thank the Minister for his comment . the United Nations Relief and Works Agency be look after 1 . 4 million people in its camp , which be more than half the population of Gaza . on my visit to Palestine in May , we hear that UNRWA be struggle to find funding . can we ensure that UNRWA be receive the money and aid it need to provide humanitarian assistance to the Palestinians now and in the future ? we be clear that UNRWA be play a critical role in Gaza . we be very careful to ensure that the british taxpayer ' money we spend to support UNRWA be spend in the right way . we have significantly increase our support to UNRWA and the Americans have re - engage in support UNRWA . give the release of the late Hamas video of three elderly male civilian hostage , do the Minister agree that in all the distress be experience about event in Gaza , it be important that these innocent hostage do not become the forget element of the conflict ? will the Government continue to do all they can to ensure that their safe release be part of any negotiation design to bring an end to the violence ? I can give the hon . Gentleman those assurance . he will understand why it be unhelpful across the Floor of the House to discuss the detail of the negotiation in respect of the hostage , but he may rest assure that we be act in precisely the way he have set out . there be horrific account of sexual violence be perpetrate against hostage in this conflict , include the gang rape of woman and genital mutilation . will the Government stand firmly with the survivor of sexual violence , which should never be use as a tool of conflict , and do all possible to strengthen their access to justice ? my hon . friend will know that this Government have make a particular and important intervention to try to stop gender - base violence , and in particular the use of sexual crime in warfare . I can tell she that her view be well hear and well respected , and we will continue to do just that . can the Minister assure the House that should a vote on a ceasefire be bring forward today at the UN Security Council , the Government will not abdicate their responsibility to innocent child , woman and man , and will vote for that ceasefire and not abstain ? I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that the Government certainly will not abdicate our responsibility , but how the Government exercise our vote on the Security Council will depend on the text that be agree . the entire Bibas family , include 11 - month - old Kfir Bibas , be kidnap on 7 October . do the Minister agree that precondition for a ceasefire must include both the military defeat of Hamas and the return of all the hostage ? yes . the challenge in secure a sustainable ceasefire — many of we have be call for a ceasefire for some time — be not just the immediate military concern , but the allegation of war crime . just in the past week alone , the Minister will have see Houthi force attack shipping in the Red sea . he will have see the situation outline so powerfully by our colleague , the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , in the Holy Family church . on 11 December , when I ask the Minister about this issue , he tell the House that the Government be continue " to identify and look for mechanism for ensure that there can be no impunity " — [ Official Report , 11 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 618 - 19 . ] for anybody who commit a war crime . can he update we on whether he have identify such a mechanism and what that might be ? the word I use be absolutely precise . the Government have no tolerance of impunity for those who commit war crime . there be legal mechanism and other mechanism that be available and that we see every day in our paper , and the Government of course support those process to ensure that there be not impunity for war crime . one hundred and twenty - nine hostage be still in captivity at the hand of the terrorist group Hamas . despite diplomatic effort , the international Red Cross have still not be give access to they . all we see be video come out . at the same time , the Hamas leadership be meet in Turkey with other terrorist group plan what they will do next . irrespective of what the United Nations say , call for a ceasefire just enable Hamas to regroup and set about their evil doing once again . my hon . friend make a very good point . that be why it be the policy of the Government and , as I understand it , the opposition not to call for an immediate ceasefire . Hamas have make it clear that they will not respect or accept a ceasefire . indeed , they want to repeat what happen on 7 October . Israel have an absolute right of self - defence to go after the people who perpetrate those terrible event on 7 October . Human Rights Watch have warn that the israeli Government be use the starvation of civilian as a method of warfare in Gaza . let we be clear , that be a war crime . Amnesty have similarly warn of war crime , as have the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights . surely the Government should not be stand by while Israel commit war crime , but should be call for an immediate ceasefire that could swiftly help prevent further such crime . do the failure to do so not risk complicity in those war crime ? the Government have hear the word of President Herzog that Israel will respect international humanitarian law , and the Government expect Israel to abide by the word of the President . my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) refer to a meeting of Hamas official , include its deputy chairman and former leader , in Turkey recently , where Hamas set out their intent to carry on their brutal act far to the 7 October massacre . what assessment have my right hon . friend the Minister make of Turkey ' s role in facilitate Hamas ' s continue war crime , and how will he pursue accountability for suppose NATO ally and strategic partner ? the Government make it clear to all country where we stand on this . we do not think that a ceasefire at this time be possible or practical . we be seek humanitarian pause that be as long as possible to get aid in . we be in favour , when it be conceivably possible , of a sustainable ceasefire , and we hope that time will come as soon as possible . be the real reason why there be so many civilian casualty in Gaza not that Hamas have cruelly , deliberately and wilfully use the civilian population as cover , whether by operate from hospital , fire from school , store weapon in people ' s house or hide among the civilian population ? be that not the reason why we must not allow this terrorist group to continue to have a base from which to try to eliminate Israel , and why a ceasefire at present would stop the israeli military fulfil its obligation to protect its people in the long run by eliminate Hamas ? the right hon . Gentleman make a very good point . while Israel use its military force to defend its civilian population , Hamas use their civilian population to defend Hamas . last week ' s comment from the israeli ambassador , which effectively rule out a two - state solution , serve as further evidence of the difference that exist between our aspiration for the region and those of both the israeli Government and , of course , Hamas . give the chasm that exist between those conflict objective , be it not time to urgently press for a permanent ceasefire to enable the diplomatic measure necessary to bring about consensus on a last peace ? in respect of the comment make by the israeli ambassador to the UK , the hon . Gentleman will have see the response of the British Government and , in particular , the response of the Foreign Secretary . on the second part of the hon . Gentleman ' s question in respect of a permanent ceasefire , he will have hear not only what the Government have say , but what those on the Opposition Front Bench have say . will the United Kingdom Government urge the Government of Israel to ratify the Rome statute and thus become a state party to the International Criminal Court ? the right hon . Gentleman will know that Britain be a signatory to the International Criminal Court because we think that it be a vital piece of the international architecture , but it be for all country to make their own decision in that respect . he will know that a number of country , include America , have so far decline to join . Shot and kill for go to the toilet — the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) have describe just one example of what Palestinians in Gaza be go through . our heart go out to she and her family , but also to all the civilian in Gaza who be affect by such appalling treatment at the moment . many israeli leader have openly push for the expulsion of Palestinians from the Gaza strip and call for the second Nakba in Gaza . will the Minister reassure the House that the British Government oppose any such attempt to forcibly expel and displace Palestinians from Gaza ? yes . with such death , devastation and destruction , which we have all see unfold in real time , constituent be ask whether there be any british fingerprint or funding to be find behind the bullet and bomb use in the horror show of Gaza and the west bank . the Minister talk of a two - state solution but , as have be point out , the Netanyahu regime and its ambassador to the UK have reject this . how can we allow the present tactic to go on unabated , when there be no clear picture on how and when this will end ? the hon . Lady ' s point underline the vital importance of move to a political track as soon as it be possible to do so . Britain must maintain that international law be follow on the international stage , specifically the protection of civilian , include innocent child . do the Minister agree that although the humanitarian pause be an important step — test the negotiation and mediation of intermediary , and , of course , the release of hostage — only a last ceasefire will bring about the condition for peace ? do he also agree — we have hear it here in the Chamber today — that the israeli Government have to accept that for they to have statehood and live in peace , they must want the same for their neighbour too ? that be why the Government be work towards a sustainable ceasefire . in the meantime , we be anxious to secure the necessary pause so that aid can get into Gaza as speedily as possible . I thank the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) for secure this urgent question and you , Mr Speaker , for grant it . my heart go out to her family and everybody else catch up in this dreadful conflict . I welcome the word of the Foreign Secretary call for a sustainable ceasefire , which must see all the hostage release and fight on both side end . we need to get the aid in . will the Minister say more about how we will permanently end this cycle of violence ? how do we get a two - state solution ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment . he be right that we be not call for a ceasefire and hope that somehow it become more permanent . what we be do be call for a sustainable ceasefire that allow we to move towards the political track , which will then deliver what he be call for . I thank the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) . as we all get ready to celebrate Christmas with our family , she will be think desperately about her family , and I think about all the family who will not be together this Christmas . pause be not enough to allow the rehabilitation of vital infrastructure . due to repeat shutdown of communication and internet service , Gaza be now in danger of become an information vacuum . transparency be absolutely essential for hold military force to account and prevent further humanitarian atrocity . will the Minister please update the House on how the UK be work to ensure that the power and communication infrastructure be restore , so that we can get help and clarity for those in desperate need ? we be work to get to that point , but we be not there at the moment . we need to do everything we can to reconnect vital infrastructure that have be destroy . it be not just about people suffer the effect of kinetic activity ; it be also about the effect of the lack of food and grow disease . the hon . Lady may rest assure that , in respect of the infrastructure to which she refer , we will do everything we can when we get the opportunity . I would like to be able to welcome the incremental move in the Foreign Secretary ' s joint statement at the weekend , but give the desperate event in Gaza and the position of the vast majority of the rest of the world , these be just weasel word . the Government and those on the Labour Front Bench be rightly quick to condemn the heinous war crime commit against civilian in Ukraine and by Hamas on 7 October . the Minister have repeatedly say that Israel need to abide by international law , but he know that Israel be not do so . be the cold - blooded killing of two civilian woman seek sanctuary in a church a war crime — yes or no ? in order to give an answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s question , I need to know the full fact , and I very much hope that the full fact will become available before too long . the agenda of the Netanyahu Government be to save he from jail , wreak revenge on all Gazans for the crime of Hamas , and recreate the Nakba in the occupy territory . the UK Government ' s refusal to call for a ceasefire give cover to this . how many ten of thousand of palestinian civilian must be kill , and how many million make refugee , starve or terrorise , before this Government call for it to stop , and to stop now ? I do not agree with the hon . Gentleman that that be the Government ' s position ; we be not provide cover for anything . we be insistent that international humanitarian law should be accept and respect , and we will do everything we can to get to the position of a sustainable ceasefire , but , as he will accept , we be not there yet . in the meanwhile , it be important to press for opportunity to get humanitarian aid and support into Gaza , to help people who be in a terrible position . the humanitarian crisis in Gaza be grave , with woman and child sadly comprise the majority of civilian casualty . Israel ' s Prime Minister Netanyahu must understand that he can not attain last peace and security by raze Gaza to the ground , which must be condemn . we do not just need an immediate cessation of fighting or a temporary week - long ceasefire like the one we have recently ; we need negotiation to enable an enduring and permanent ceasefire . what be the UK Government do to work with our international ally to enable just that ? the negotiation and discussion with Prime Minister Netanyahu be widespread . the hon . Member will know that there have be regular discussion between our Prime Minister and Prime Minister Netanyahu , and the Foreign Secretary have be a part of they as well . indeed , I think Sir Tony Blair will also see Prime Minister Netanyahu shortly . so the hon . Member can rest assure that the urgency of the situation be be well ventilate by senior british politician . last week , I too have the honour of meet the heroic Professor Abu Sitta , along with the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) West and other colleague from across the House . he give the most harrowing account of his experience work as a surgeon , have to perform amputation on child without proper painkiller and use only vinegar and washing - up liquid to sterilise wound due to Israel ' s blockade on medical supply . the doctor also speak of the war crime be commit , with the israeli army drop white phosphoru , which burn deep into the muscle and tissue of child , and sniper kill palestinian doctor as they care for the injured and die . will the Minister meet the professor to hear for himself about the unspeakable pain and suffering be mete out to innocent people and explain to he why this Government still refuse to condemn these heinous contravention of international humanitarian law ? either I or another Foreign Office Minister will certainly be pleased to meet the professor . the harrowing evidence to which the hon . Member refer merely underline the critical importance of move towards a sustainable ceasefire and , in the immediate future , secure the humanitarian pause that we be all seek . while the Government should be lead the call for an immediate , complete and permanent ceasefire , what assurance have the Minister , the Foreign Secretary or indeed the Prime Minister have that actor in the conflict will abide by today ' s UN Security Council resolution , should it pass ? the hon . Member be ask I to prophesy about the future . let we see if we can secure a UN Security Council resolution , and then we can move to try to ensure that everyone honour it . the shooting of Yotam Haim , Alon Shamriz and Samer Talalka — the three israeli hostage who be carry a white flag — as well as the attack on the catholic church , belie the IDF ' s claim that its action be precise and intelligence - lead . there be now strong evidence , I believe , of war crime . I accept what the Minister have say about call for a ceasefire , and I hope that we get an immediate ceasefire ahead of Christmas . will he help I with how two family I have can get out of Gaza : Alaa Safi , who have lose 50 member of her family , and Enas Alaloul , who have nothing to do with Hamas ? the hon . Member make an important intervention about the humanitarian effect of what be go on in Gaza . but , as I have repeatedly say , that underline the importance of the Government work day and night to try to deliver these pause and then a sustainable ceasefire . may I impress on the Minister my constituent ' strength of support on the need for an immediate ceasefire , not only because of the starvation we be begin to see and the child be treat with washing - up liquid and vinegar , but because 93 health worker have reportedly be detain , with no information on their whereabouts or wellbee ? will the Minister give the Government ' s assessment of the ability of the International Committee of the Red Cross to access health worker detain by israeli force ? the position be unclear , but the Government ' s focus be very clear : it be to deliver the humanitarian pause that we require in order to secure the necessary humanitarian support inside Gaza . Jabalia refugee camp , Shifa hospital , Omari mosque and the Holy Family church be all civilian target that have be obliterate by israeli bombing or attack by IDF sniper . there be nearly 18 , 000 dead and nearly 1 . 5 million displace . UN expert have warn that we be at risk of witness a genocide in the making in Gaza . will the Minister now use all diplomatic measure , include sanction , to compel Israel and Hamas to end allege breach of international law while also at last demand a permanent , immediate ceasefire alongside the release of those hostage ? the hon . Member will have hear what I have say about the plausibility of an immediate and permanent ceasefire . on his point about the civilian who be in such extreme jeopardy , he will be aware that Hamas quite deliberately use civilian to defend themselves and for military purpose . that make the situation all the more difficult to reach the progress that we all want to see . I hope that the Government can support a UN resolution today , but we desperately need an immediate ceasefire , to protect the civilian population in Gaza and to create the space for dialogue for a permanent ceasefire . once we get to that point , how do the Minister see the UK ' s role in get to the political solution on the ground and , in particular , ensure that the palestinian population be not permanently displace ? I share with the hon . member a view that a United Nations Security Council resolution be urgently need , and I very much hope that it will be in a form that we can support shortly . with regard to a ceasefire , he will have hear what have be say from both the Government and the Opposition Front Benches about the plausibility of achieve that . with regard to the role that Britain will play once the sky clear and there be an opportunity for a political track , the Foreign Secretary be in the region today try to advance precisely that . it have be seven day since the american President warn that Israel be in danger of lose global support because of its indiscriminate bombing in Gaza . that warning clearly have not be heed . I note what the Minister have say about no impunity for war crime , but that come after the event . what signal will the UN send today to Israel to say that the line have clearly be cross , we can not support it , and we do not condone what it have be do in Gaza ? the hon . Lady be right to say that there have be far too many civilian casualty in this fighting and that a more surgical approach be require . that be very much what the Prime Minister and the British Government have call for . we will continue to work towards a more sustainable cessation of hostility and a sustainable ceasefire in the way that I have describe . the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office website advise people who might be travel to Ukraine : " if you travel to Ukraine to fight , or to assist other engage in the war , your activity may amount to offence under UK legislation and you could be prosecute on your return to the UK . " why be there not a similar statement on the advice for travel to Israel ? because the two situation be not analogous . I quote from a newspaper opinion column : " even if Israel manage to destroy Hamas , a similar movement will undoubtedly emerge from the destitution and despair of the Gaza Strip . " that be write by the then Deputy Prime Minister , Nick Clegg , during Israel ' s Operation Protective Edge in August 2014 . what be the british Government do to prevent the recurrence of the terrible violence we be see in another decade ? the hon . member be right to point to the fact that this dispute have continue down the year . he will also have notice that it be after the crisis of the Yom Kippur war that progress be make politically , and then again after the first intifada . we must all hope that after this dreadful situation move into a sustainable ceasefire , the political track be once again able to grip these issue and ensure that a bright future await . it be an issue that have poison the well of international opinion in the middle east and deserve resolution so that the child of those involve today can enjoy a well life than their parent . I thank the Minister for his response , and for and his and the Government ' s stance on Hamas , which be clearly a terrorist group . they be the baby killer , rapist and killer of innocent people — not just Israelis but innocent Palestinians . that be who Hamas be , and they must be destroy . can the Minister confirm , on day 74 of Israel ' s response to the Hamas terrorist murder , whether he believe that we have be able to exert any meaningful influence to bring positive step forward for the release of the hostage ? we be do everything we possibly can to get the hostage out . the hon . Gentleman will understand that I can not give the House a run commentary on that . in respect of his early comment , I thank he for his humanity and his wisdom . I wish a happy Christmas to he , you , Mr Speaker , and the whole House . Ukraine ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence to make a statement on the war in Ukraine . since the Minister for the Armed Forces last update the House on 28 November , the situation on the ground have remain largely unchanged . Ukraine have be fortify its border with Belarus with dragon ' s tooth , razor wire and anti - tank ditch , and be pivot to a more defensive posture follow ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky ' s call on 1 December for rapid fortification across the front . on 12 December , Kyivstar , Ukraine ' s large mobile network operator , suffer a cyber - attack . the incident be likely one of the high impact disruptive cyber - attack on ukrainian network since the start of Russia ' s full - scale invasion . the russian air force be highly likely to have carry out the first use of the AS - 24 Killjoy air - launch ballistic missile since August 2023 . Killjoy have almost certainly have a mixed combat debut . many of its launch have likely miss their intended target , while Ukraine have also succeed in shoot down example of the supposedly undefeatable system . we will continue to support priority area for Ukraine in the come month , include air defence and harden critical national infrastructure site . our foundational supply of critical artillery ammunition continue . most recently , on 11 December , the Defence Secretary announce that the UK will lead a new maritime capability coalition alongside Norway , deliver ship and vehicle to strengthen Ukraine ' s ability to operate at sea . this represent a step change in the UK ' s support for Ukraine in both defend against Russia ' s illegal and unprovoked invasion and develop Ukraine ' s future maritime capability . the new coalition will deliver long - term support to Ukraine , include training , equipment , and infrastructure to bolster security in the Black sea . we could not be more clear : as the Prime Minster have say , we be in this for as much and as long as it take . the maritime capability coalition initiative reinforce our collective long - term commitment to Ukraine and provide a permanent mechanism through which we can support the development of Ukraine ' s maritime capability . agree during recent meeting of the 50 - nation - strong Ukraine defence contact group , it form part of a series of capability coalition to strengthen Ukraine ' s operation in other domain include on land and in the air . on 13 and 14 December , the Ministry of Defence , along with the Department of Business and Trade , successfully conduct the first UK trade mission to Kyiv since the invasion in 2022 . the mission enable discussion with and between UK and Ukraine official and industry on opportunity for long - term co - operation , and result in tangible agreement for industry . the UK have commit £ 4 . 6 billion of military support to date , as we continue to donate significant amount of ammunition and mat é riel from our own stock , as well as those purchase from across the globe . in addition , we have train more than 52 , 000 soldier since 2015 . the UK and our ally have be clear that we will not stand by as the Kremlin persist in its disregard for the sovereignty of Ukraine and international law . that include the recognition of Ukraine ' s sovereignty over its territorial water , which be establish in accordance with international maritime law . I thank the Minister for his word but , with due respect , the House should hear from the Defence Secretary himself . he may have urgent business today — we understand that — but he have be in post for four month and he have not make an oral statement in Parliament on Ukraine , from the top , to reassure Ukrainians that Britain will stand with they for as long as it take to win , to warn President Putin that Britain remain resolute in confront russian aggression , and to explain to people why the defence of the UK start in Ukraine . this be a war in Europe . last week , nearly two year on , Putin declare that his goal have not change . if he prevail , he will not stop at Ukraine . that be why the Government have have , and will continue to have , Labour ' s full support for military aid to Ukraine and for reinforce NATO ally . ukrainian face another winter with war , and another tough year beyond . yesterday , a top general say that they face ammunition shortage across the entire frontline . at the very time Ukraine need unfailing support , the UK be fall behind other nation : no new UK weaponry since July ; no UK military funding for next year ; and no 2024 plan for Ukraine . the UK be unite behind Ukraine . I be proud of the UK leadership on Ukraine , but I want to be proud in six month ' time . when will the military aid funding for next year be agree ? will it be multi - year ? when will the international fund for Ukraine commit the half a billion pound so far unspent ? how many next - generation light anti - tank weapon have be produce under the new contract sign 12 month ago , and deliver to Ukraine ? another two minehunter ship be announce last week for Ukraine — the same ship pledge by Ministers in June 2021 . Madam Deputy Speaker , 2024 will be a critical year for Ukraine . we must have the Defence Secretary himself in the House to set out the UK ' s plan — military , economic and diplomatic — to support Ukraine through 2024 and beyond . I be extremely proud to stand here and defend the Government ' s very strong record in support Ukraine . the Secretary of State give a very important statement yesterday on the future of UK fast jet capability , and the trade mission that we send to Ukraine last week make it timely that I stand here now . the public understand the huge amount of support that we have give , and it be important to emphasise that we now need to move to the next phase — the long term — of help Ukraine ' s industry to support itself , work closely with ukrainian partner . as procurement Minister , I have that as an absolute priority , as demonstrate in the last week by the trade mission . on the right hon . Gentleman ' s other point , I totally agree about the risk of Putin prevail , and I be grateful for the cross - party support . on ammunition shortage , he specifically ask about nlaw . of course , that be not the only anti - tank weapon we have send . in total , we have send around 10 , 000 anti - tank weapon to Ukraine , plus about 4 million small - round ammo , 300 , 000 artillery shell , 20 AS90 self - propel gun , a squadron of tank and a huge amount of air defence system and uncrewed system . the list go on : 82 , 000 helmet , and train for over 50 , 000 Ukrainians in the UK to enable they to go back and fight for the freedom of their country . I be very proud of that record , but the Prime Minister have be clear : we know there be much more to do . I agree with my hon . friend that we have send a great deal of ammunition to Ukraine . the question be , have we be able to replace that ammunition , especially in the context of a war that seem to be attritional and likely to go on for a considerable amount of time ? my right hon . friend be an expert in these matter , and always ask pertinent question . my constituent strongly support the effort we have undertake to give all the weapon we have to Ukraine — not all gift from this country , it should be stress . equally , they want we to replenish those stock . that be why we have already sign contract for nlaw and lightweight multi - role missile , and we have already take delivery of the Archer 6x6 , which be the interim replacement for the AS90 gun . it happen in parallel . we have to keep support Ukraine but , absolutely , we put the additional money from the budget to support the replenishment of our own armed force . we be approach dangerous territory with regard to the west ' s ongoing support for those who fight for our democracy and the rule of law in the trench and farm building of eastern Ukraine . we see Putin ' s plan to sit and wait while democracy lose interest in Ukraine come to fruition , in politically motivated budget wrangle in Washington , in the clientelism of hungarian President Viktor Orb á n , in the exhausted replenishment effort of the west ' s defence industry and in the vagary of the west ' s medium cycle . the west must act decisively and with endurance to thwart Putin ' s plan , and the SNP stand fully behind the Government ' s action to deliver on that priority . the Foreign Secretary have confirm that the UK will continue to support Ukraine in the defence against Putin . what further detail can this Defence Minister provide about that , and about what discussion the Secretary of State for Defence — it be a pity that he be not here — have have with the Foreign Secretary about the continued support for Ukraine ? what will it look like , and what will be the scale of it ? finally , can the UK Government encourage , through some mean , the Government and the Prime Minister of Hungary to lift their block on EU funding for Ukraine ? I believe that until recently the hon . Gentleman be a member of the Defence Committee , and I be grateful for that support from he and from his party . he ask a number of question , but I think the most important be the one about what we could say about the support we be provide for Ukraine right now . in my opening remark I emphasise the importance of the maritime capability coalition , and member will be more than aware of the importance of the Black sea and get grain out of Ukraine . since that corridor reopen , some 5 million tonne of grain have be export , and it be extremely important for we to retain that . we should also recognise that Ukraine have have significant success in push the russian fleet eastward to enable that to happen . however , we must not be complacent , which be why we be provide this naval support . we and Norway be joint leader of the MCC , and when I visit Norway last week , it be clear that we be very strong naval partner because of the share threat to our home water that we face from russian submarine , but we will keep on look at what more we can do , and I be grateful to member in all part of the House for their support . in response to the question from the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) , my hon . Friend refer to UK company help Ukraine to build out its own defence capability . that be obviously to be welcome , but can he also reassure we that the work we be do to resupply Ukraine be an opportunity we be seize to broaden and deepen UK defence capability , so that in the bad - case scenario we can enhance our own ability to restock ourselves and our ally ? it be a pleasure to take a question from my right hon . friend . he be an excellent Minister for Defence Procurement and an excellent Minister generally , and I always enjoy the many Cobra meeting that be oversee by he , but he speak with equal strength from the Back Benches , and his question be very important . when it come to opportunity for future industrial production in Ukraine , I would like to see an opportunity for we to work together for our mutual benefit to create ordnance not just for Ukraine but for ourselves , because maximise that demand signal be the good way in which to secure the strong possible military industrial base . I readily acknowledge the support that we have give to Ukraine to try and ensure that Putin can not win . that be an objective share in all part of the House , but the scale of the conflict require more , especially in the form of artillery and munition . why do it take the government more than a year to sign the contract for new capacity for shell production , not only for Ukraine but to restock our own supply ? the right hon . Gentleman be entirely right , and he speak with experience as a former Defence Minister , but we have sign the contract on the 155 shell , as the Prime Minister announce last July . that contract sit alongside many other , include the lightweight multi - role missile and STARStreak contract . this be , of course , for our own defence , but , as I have say , we recently deliver the 300 , 000th artillery shell to Ukraine , and we should be proud of that effort . it be clearly very important that we support our friend in Ukraine , but it be equally important that we support our NATO ally in the region , such as Romania . my hon . friend have mention the support be give in the Black sea . the port of Constanta be vital to the export of ukrainian grain and other produce , so may I ask what extra support the Government be give to Romania to ensure that this vital sea lane be keep free ? my hon . friend have make an excellent point . I recently have the pleasure of meet my romanian counterpart in the main building at the Ministry of Defence , and we speak about a number of issue . like we , the Romanians be absolutely committed to support Ukraine . I think that Romania be one of the country that be join the mcc , but I will check that and write to my hon . friend . we need to work closely with ally on these wide strategic issue . last month I be concerned to note that the Chancellor barely mention Ukraine in his autumn statement , and since then he have make hardly any new commitment to support its people . the Government and the opposition have stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine , and the UK must not waver in its leadership on this issue . can the Minister reassure I — and , more important , can he reassure the family who have come from Ukraine and settle in my constituency — that the UK will be commit to support Ukraine in the come month ? absolutely : I can send that message to the family — and , by the way , the hon . Lady have also make an important point in remind we of the huge generosity that we have show by take in so many of those family , a number of whom be in my constituency . I can certainly reassure she , on the basis of what have happen literally in the last week . we should be judge not by word but by action , have create a maritime coalition that will support the crucial strategic interest of the Black sea . I be talk about access to the Black sea , security , and the ability to get grain in and out . we have also continue to provide those crucial weapon , include air defence system . I congratulate the Government on their global leadership , which we all recognise , but a couple of matter concern I . first , the importance of supply basic kit have be stress by member on both side of the House . the supply of 155 and 155 - 2 shell be critical , and it need a long - term plan . it be great that we have supply 300 , 000 shell , but the Russians be use up to 15 , 000 shell a day , and the Ukrainians be respond with between 3 , 000 and 7 , 000 , so this be a massive artillery war . secondly , Putin ' s regime be gain ground politically because the Russians be hold ground while they target western support . so the long - term supply be critical physically , but it be also critical in term of the message we send that we be not cut and run but be in for the long haul . my hon . friend , who of course serve in intelligence , make some excellent point . on the particular importance of artillery , I have already speak about the volume of shell and the gun that have be gift , but I should add the spare part to support they , which be easy to forget about . I speak early about the Ukraine defence contact group . I recently attend a Teams call with all my fellow Ministers involve in that , under US leadership . country after country list its late gifting , include artillery and many other munition . however , my hon . friend be right to say that we need a long - term plan . I think there be huge determination across the west and all our ally to continue this effort . of course it be challenge , but that be why we need to bring in that additional element of ensure that ukrainian industry can start to rise to the occasion . the language from the Government remain robust , but the detail of practical help , military and otherwise , be lack . there be 12 day leave of this year , and we still do not have a full schedule for what aid the Government will provide for 2024 . when can we expect to have it ? I respect the hon . Gentleman , with whom I spend time at the Ministry of Justice , but he have suggest that this be " talk " . we be one of the key reason why Ukraine be still a free country . it have regain about 50 % of the land take by Russia , and we play a decisive role in that . I know that there be strong consensus on keep it go , but I hope that that can be recognise . I have already list the enormous amount of ordnance that we have provide : 300 , 000 artillery shell and 4 million round of ammunition . of course we want to keep on do that , and we be . I have also explain how we will be support Ukraine in the naval domain , which I believe will be crucial . my constituency have warmly welcome many Ukrainians to our community , and we be supportive of the UK Government ' s ongoing effort to back Ukraine and our NATO ally . can my hon . friend update the House on the support for Ukraine ' s own military industrial capacity ? that too be an excellent question . I speak early about the visit last week . why be that so important ? it be important because , as I say , we know there be huge support across the country , and indeed across Parliament , for the effort that we have undertake to support Ukraine . however , we now need to help its industry to support it . I think that our defence industry , which be world - lead , can play a key role in that , and I be very pleased that major UK prime be out there last week , already start to sign agreement with their ukrainian counterpart . in July this year , I have the opportunity to visit Ukraine with Siobhan ' s Trust and the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) . it be clear that many of the soldier be be injure and be not receive enough support , and also that training be a huge issue . I realise that there be sensitivity surround what western country can do when it come to provide training , but can the Minister explain what kind of help be be provide for soldier , in term of recovery but also to ensure that they have proper support so that they be not go into conflict — into war — unprepared ? the hon . Lady ask an excellent question on training . it be one of my most insightful visit as a Defence Minister early on to go to Salisbury plain and see the Irish Guards , together with our New Zealand and australian colleague , train Ukrainians who , let we be frank , would have some week of training then go out to experience pretty severe trench warfare . I be proud of the role we play in that , but she be right to say that a crucial part of it be the medical element . I believe that we have train around 65 medical personnel , but I will check that detail and write to she , because this be important . recently the United States have be wobble over funding . what assessment do our Government make of that and of how we engage in Ukraine ? this be the second Christmas that many Ukrainians will be experience in a time not in peace . could the Minister send the Government ' s gratitude to organisation such as the Ukrainian Social and Cultural Centre in Bolton , head by Yaroslaw Tymchyshyn , during what should be a joyous time for family around the world but be a difficult time for the ukrainian community ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to champion the community group support Ukraine . on his other point about the US , I can only speak from my own experience . I refer to the contact group meeting we have on Teams recently . Secretary Austin lead that from the beginning to the end , emphasise all the way through that as far as he be concern , the US be in it for the long haul . I believe that that be the case . this be about freedom . freedom be at stake here . we have fight this far to protect it , and we have to keep do that job if we be to defend freedom across our continent . in August this year , the then Defence Secretary say that he would publish the action plan for Ukraine in 2023 . will it be publish before the end of the year ? I simply say to the right hon . Lady , as I have be say throughout , that we be deliver action every week in Ukraine . the amount of ordnance we have supply and continue to supply — particularly in term of air defence , which be now increasingly crucial — be huge . I have list the many number . some of it , of course , we can not talk about . there be technology that we be test out there , ensure that our munition be successful . what I can say be that if we look at the work of the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory , for example — as I say , I can not talk about the detail — we can see that it have have a huge bearing on the impact of what we have donate into theatre . I welcome the support that the Government have give , and indeed the lead that they have take , in ensure that while other be drag their foot we give support to Ukraine in its vital defence of freedom . as it be clear that the Russians be now settle in for a long war , consolidate the ground that they have take and hope to sit out the west ' s opposition to their invasion , can the Minister give we some indication whether he be ensure that we have the physical capacity to continue our support and that we be make the necessary financial commitment ? what plan do he have to launch a diplomatic offensive to ensure that people stay in line on give support to Ukraine ? we be try to do all those thing . I should like to put on record that it be an absolute pleasure to visit the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituency to launch Armed Forces Week back in the summer . I know that he be a passionate supporter of our armed force and of our effort in Ukraine , and that he share my pride in the provision of NLAW , which be make in Belfast . he be absolutely right on all those count , and on the diplomatic one in particular . there ' s huge unity in the west . we all know that the stake be incredibly high , but we now have to persist . we be all in it for the long haul . it be clearly Putin ' s strategy to sit this out as long as be necessary in the hope that Ukraine ' s ally lose the political will to provide the support that have be there so far . in that regard , the Foreign Secretary indicate to the other place early this month that he be prepared to increase the amount of funding available to Ukraine next year . be the Minister able to confirm that that be indeed the case and tell we how much additional funding will be in place ? the hon . Gentleman know perfectly well that these matter be still under discussion . the Prime Minister have be clear about the strength of our commitment , and I go back to the previous point make by the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , which back this up . a huge way in which we have ensure support and funding for Ukraine be not just from what we have provide but by be a convenor of an international effort . we have play a decisive role in that , but of course there be more to do . those of we on the SNP Benches remain steadfast in our support for Ukraine in its defence against its unprovoked russian aggressor . Ukraine have be give substantial support by a great many country , particularly the UK and the USA , but as we have hear , that support be under threat . how concerned be the Minister about the rhetoric on Ukraine aid that be come from the US Republicans drive by Donald Trump , who be too busy praise Vladimir Putin , and about what that mean for the US ' s aid to Ukraine in the long term ? I respect the point that the hon . Gentleman make , but I hear nothing but total support for Ukraine from the US Administration . they recognise the strategic issue . let we be clear about this . to all voice in the US and elsewhere , this be not just about Ukraine . as the shadow Secretary of State say early , we should not underestimate what the impact would have be , have Russia succeed early on in term of other strategic issue , not least China and so on . we have to see the big picture , and that mean stand together as ally . the Minister be clear about the support for Ukraine from the UK , but do he agree that it be important that we keep full support from our NATO ally ? two week ago at the transatlantic NATO forum , I and other delegate be concern about the lukewarm response from certain member of Congress on continue support . what more can we do to get the message across to member of Congress that the commitment be not only solid here but also back by cash , with around $ 133 billion come from the UK and the european institution ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman ; this follow on from the previous point . as I say , when I look at the US I see steadfast support in the Administration in term of the enormous amount of munition they have provide and in many other way , include financially , and I hope that that can continue . my observation from the contact group be that , day to day , they be lead that and ensure that we , with they , continue to convene other nation . but the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : we all need to be in it for the long haul . the Minister obfuscate and do not properly answer the question from my right hon . friend the Member for Walsall South ( Valerie Vaz ) , so let I try again . in a bid to provide long - term certainty of UK support for our friend in Ukraine to help repel Russia ' s invasion , the Defence Secretary ' s predecessor last August promise a 2023 action plan for Ukraine , but it be still nowhere to be see and there be less than two week of 2023 leave . so , Minister , why have this action plan not be publish and when will it be ? I be not obfuscate ; I be simply refer to the actual action we have be deliver on the ground , day in , day out , in Ukraine right from the beginning and before — after all , we have be train Ukrainians since 2014 . so yes , we be deliver action on the ground and it have help to keep Ukraine a free country , largely . the signal that we send from this place be obviously important , as I be sure the Minister will agree , and in the message that we be hear from the EU and the US there be perhaps some wavering go on . I come back to the previous question and that of my right hon . friend the Member for Walsall South . will the Minister commit today to publish the action plan for Ukraine before the end of this year ? well of course , this be the last sit day . I would simply say — [ interruption . ] I might sound like a stuck record , but this be so important . in this game , what matter be what we actually do on the ground . we have just announce a maritime coalition . we continue to send air defence system , which be incredibly important . we have send 300 , 000 artillery shell , thousand and thousand of helmet , 4 million piece of small arm ammo . this be what matter . this be the action that deliver . we know there be more to do , and we be go to keep play that role . the russian energy giant Gazprom earn £ 39 million last year from the North sea Sillimanite gas field , which be partly underneath UK water . Gazprom be majority own by the russian state and be Russia ' s large taxpayer . will the Minister talk to his counterpart in the Department for Business and Trade to avoid a situation where UK defence be give generous military aid while the new Office of Trade Sanctions implementation overlook the russian state funding of its aggression from the proceed of the sale of North sea gas ? I be happy to look into that far . two year in and the hardship and devastation continue for the people of Ukraine , especially as we enter the harsh winter month . western official have repeatedly assess that russian force be currently fire artillery at a rate five to seven time great than their ukrainian counterpart . what more be the Government do to ensure an adequate supply of ammunition for Ukraine to win this war ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to talk about the issue arise as we move into winter , which obviously bring its own challenge . I have speak about the significant amount of ordnance supply to date . as she know , we do not talk about the specific of how it arrive in country . needless to say , we work strongly with our ally and , of course , with the ukrainian armed force . the key point be that we continue to work strongly on supply munition into Ukraine , but our trade mission be one of the most important development because we now have to focus on help ukrainian industry to manufacture its own arm . we want to do that jointly with Ukraine . we have a strong track record of world - lead defence business , which be part of the key to this . I thank the Minister for his positive response . no one , inside or outside this House , can doubt the commitment of the United Kingdom Government and Ministers to help Ukraine . as the hustle and bustle of Christmas be upon we , it be easy for we to forget that Ukraine be still at war and hold its own against russian aggression . can the Minister update the House on how family with child be receive aid and education to ensure that we do not have a lost generation of young adult with no learning and no vocational training ? as ever , we save the good for last . it be always a pleasure to take question from the hon . Gentleman , who always speak with such passion and compassion . he be absolutely right about this important issue . we have be talk about financial support and , as he will be aware , the totality of our support to Ukraine — not just military aid but humanitarian aid — be £ 9 . 3 billion . of course we need to focus on the humanitarian side but , ultimately , I feel most proud of our contribution when I imagine what would have happen if Ukraine have be totally conquer . that do not bear think about . Deputy Speaker ' s statement we be about to proceed to the statement on housing . before I call the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety to make the statement , I must say to the House that Mr Speaker be seriously concerned that the ministerial code may have be break . it will be obvious to the House that the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be not here to make the statement , which be not unusual . the Minister be here , and we welcome he , but I remind the House of the follow provision of the ministerial code . in paragraph 9 . 1 : " when Parliament be in session , the most important announcement of Government policy should be make in the first instance , in Parliament . " in paragraph 9 . 3 : " every effort should be make to avoid leave significant announcement to the last day before a recess . " the House may not be aware , but Mr Speaker be aware , that the Secretary of State hold a televise press conference just after 12 o ' clock today — while this House be sit but while it be still deal with question , as we always do between 11 . 30 am and 12 . 30 pm — and that just after 12 . 30 pm , while the House be deal with question and some two hour before the Minister come to the House , the Secretary of State make this statement to journalist . several member have , not surprisingly , make very reasonable complaint to Mr Speaker about this very serious discourtesy to the House , and it really must be note that it be not a trivial matter . a senior Secretary of State make an important policy announcement on television , and now the Minister — I place no blame upon the Minister , whom we welcome to the House — be here two hour later . this be a gross discourtesy to this House . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I can not take a point of order until after the statement . I think it would be good to leave point of order , unless they relate absolutely directly to what I have just say . it do , Madam Deputy Speaker . then I will take the right hon . Gentleman ' s point of order . do it not show contempt , not only for member of Parliament and this House but for our constituent , on whose behalf we speak , that the Secretary of State make this statement to journalist rather than to this House ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order . I hope that be the point I have just make to the House . I take it that he agree with what I , on behalf of Mr Speaker , have just say . it be a gross contempt . rise — we will take point of order after the statement , but it be only fair that we hear the Minister . long - term plan for Housing I apologise on behalf of the Department for the point you have just highlight , Madam Deputy Speaker . with permission , I would like to make a statement on the Government ' s commitment to house building and the planning policy reform we be make today . this Government want to build more home in the right place , more quickly , more beautifully and more sustainably . we know that the right way to deliver this be through a reform planning system . today , the Secretary of State and I be lay out our plan for that reform , and we be clear that it be only through up - to - date local plan that local authority can deliver for community , protect the land and the asset that matter most , and create the condition for more home to be deliver . have plan in place unlock land for home , for hospital and general practitioner centre , for school , for power grid connection and more . it lay the foundation for our economic growth and the levelling up of our community . the first change we be make today be to update the national planning policy framework . we consult on a series of proposal last December and receive more than 26 , 000 response , which we have work through in detail . the result update build on the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 and deliver on the intent set out by the Secretary of State last year , and it do so in a way that will promote build the right home in the right place with the right infrastructure , which will ensure that the environment be protect and give local people a great say on where and where not to place new , beautiful development . I will now summarise the key change be make to the framework today , and hon . member should refer to the consultation response and the framework itself for the publish policy . first , the standard method for assess local housing need figure have sometimes be difficult to apply in some area , and have be blind to the exceptional characteristic of local community . the new NPPF make it clear that the outcome of the standard method be an advisory starting point in plan make for establish an area ' s housing requirement . the revise NPPF also now provide more clarity on what may constitute exceptional circumstance for use an alternative method to assess housing need . the framework be also clear that the urban uplift should be accommodate in the urban area in which it be apply , and should not be export unless there be a voluntary cross - boundary agreement in place . new home be most desperately need in urban area , so it be essential that city council plan properly for local people . secondly , give the importance of the green belt to so many , the new NPPF be clear that there be generally no requirement on local authority to review or alter green belt boundary . unlike Labour ' s plan to concrete over the countryside , we will not impose top - down release of green - belt land against the wish of local community . where a relevant local planning authority choose to conduct a review , exist national policy will continue to expect that green - belt boundary be alter only where exceptional circumstance be fully evidence and justify , and this should only be through the preparation or updating of plan . the Government be make no change to the rule that govern what can and can not be build on green - belt land , but we be clarify in guidance where brownfield development can occur on the green belt , provide that the openness of the green belt be not harm . thirdly , the Government be clear that the character of an exist area should be respect , particularly in the historic suburb of our great town and city . the new NPPF therefore recognise that there may be situation in plan make where significant uplift in urban residential density would be inappropriate , as they would be wholly out of character with that exist area . in these case , authority need not plan for such development . that will apply where there be a design code that be adopt , or will be adopt , as part of the local plan . I know the shadow Minister will sympathise with this change , give that he recently oppose 1 , 500 new home in his constituency due to the impact on Greenwich ' s local character . fourthly , where an up - to - date plan be in place — a plan less than five year old — and contain a deliverable five - year supply of land when examine by the inspector , authority will no long be require to update that supply annually . this change provide those authority with additional protection from the presumption in favour of sustainable development . we be also fully remove what be know as the 5 % and 10 % buffer , which could be apply to an authority ' s housing land supply . a transitional arrangement will ensure that decision make on live application be not affect , thus avoid disruption to application in the system . for authority that have not yet pass examination but be either at examination , regulation 18 or regulation 19 stage , and have both a policy map and propose allocation , there will be a two - year grace period in which they need to demonstrate only a four - year housing land supply for decision making . that be a strong incentive for council to now do the right thing and agree a local plan . fifthly , local community that have work hard to put neighbourhood plan in place should not be penalise for the failure of their council to ensure an up - to - date local plan . the new NPPF therefore extend protection for neighbourhood plan from speculative development from two to five year , where those plan allocate at least one housing site . the update framework also give great support to self - build , custom - build and community - lead housing , and to encourage the delivery of old people ' s housing , include retirement housing , housing with care and care home . next , the NPPF cement the role of beauty and placemake in the planning system ; it now expressly use the word " beautiful " in relation to " well - design place " . it also now require great " visual clarity " on design requirement set out in planning condition and support gentle density through the promotion of mansard roof development . finally , the new NPPF also strengthen protection for agricultural land , by be clear that consideration should be give to the availability of agricultural land for food production in development decision . the NPPF also support the Government ' s energy security strategy , by give significant weight to the importance of energy efficiency in the adaptation of exist building , while protect heritage . with the update NPPF now in place , the other reform we be make today be focus on set high expectation for performance . those who operationalise the system — local authority , the Planning Inspectorate and statutory consultees — must live up to their responsibility . to support that , we be take action on four front . first , we will ensure great transparency , because expose what be really go on in a system spark action . so we will publish a new local authority performance dashboard in 2024 , and pull back the veil on the use of extension of time agreement , which in too many instance be conceal poor performance . secondly , we have be provide , and will continue to provide , additional financial support . that include the increase planning fee that go live a fortnight ago , as well as a range of fund to tackle backlog and improve capability . thirdly , we will tackle slow process , with Sam Richards lead a review into the statutory consultee system and a great focus from the Planning Inspectorate where planning committee be see their decision overturn on appeal . finally , we will intervene where we need to . the Secretary of State have issue a direction to seven of the bad authority in term of plan make , require they to publish a plan timetable within 12 week of the publication of the new NPPF . should they fail , we will consider further intervention . we be also designate two additional authority for their decision - make performance and we will review the threshold for designation to make sure to make sure we be not let off the hook authority that should be do well . we be also take action in London , because the home need by the capital be simply not be build and opportunity for urban brownfield regeneration go beg as a result of the Mayor ' s anti - housing policy and approach . a review launch today will identify where change to policy could speed up the delivery of much - need home . if direct change in London become necessary , this Government will do that . in design these reform we have aim to facilitate desirable development , constrain only by appropriate protection . that be a balance I be confident we have strike . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . nothing scream long - term housing plan quite like a statement from the 16th Housing Minister since 2010 outline the fourth set of change to the national planning policy framework in as many year . as ever with this Government , the reality in no way match the rhetoric , as we see with the headline announcement make to the press — not this House — over the past 24 hour . not only be they seemingly at odd with the Government ' s state wish to give local community more of a say about the placement of new development ; the truth be that the ink will barely be dry on outline plan for the propose expansion of Cambridge by the time the general election be call . the punitive and nakedly political intervention that minister be work up for London ahead of the mayoral election will , likewise , do nothing in practice to resolve the constraint that they themselves have impose on house building in the capital , not least by leave industry completely in the dark when it come to second staircase regulation for tall building , at a cost of thousand of new home . when it come to meaningful support for small and medium - sized house builder , the Government have be talk , literally for year , about the various way in which they need great support while preside over their continue decline . far from unlock a new generation of home building , as the Secretary of State have claim , the detailed change be make to the NPPF today will almost certainly far suppress collapse house building rate . let we be clear : although there have be minor tweak , the change be make be those that the Government , in their weakness , promise the so - call " Planning Concern Group " of Tory back bencher they would enact back in December last year in order to stave off a rebellion on the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill . that be precisely why the member of that group be so pleased with the " compromise " they have secure today . I have a number of detailed question for the Minister , start with the impact of these change on overall housing supply . whether it be the softening of land supply requirement or the listing of various local characteristic that would justify a deviation from the now only advisory standard method , can he confirm that the change make to the NPPF , take together , will give those local authority that wish to take advantage of it the freedom to plan for less housing than their nominal local target imply ? if he dispute that that will be their effect , what technical evidence can he provide to demonstrate that these change can be reconcile with a boost to housing delivery ? I turn to the Government ' s 300 , 000 annual housing target , which the Secretary of State recommit himself to today . how on earth do the Minister imagine that the change that have be make to the rule around plan make will help the Government finally meet that target , particularly give that the arbitrary 35 % urban uplift have be retain but the requirement for local planning authority to try to meet it out of area in co - operation with their neighbour if they can not do so alone have be remove ? can the Minister finally provide a convincing explanation of how and when the Government ' s 300 , 000 home a year target will be meet ? or be it the case that it remain alive in name only , abandon in practice even if not formally abolish ? let I turn to local plan coverage . in many way , the revise NPPF speak to a planning framework that do not actually exist , because under this government we have a local plan - lead system in which only a minority of local authority have up - to - date plan . accord to the most recent figure , just 33 % have local plan that have be adopt or review within the past five year and only 10 new plan have be submit for examination this year — in part , this be because of the chilling effect of the Government ' s December 2022 concession . yet only now , in the die day of this government , be Ministers seemingly get a bit more serious about intervene to drive up coverage . in the Times today , the Secretary of State announce a new three - month deadline for up - to - date local plan to be submit . will the Minister outline the thinking behind that timeframe and tell we what happen if multiple local authority fail to meet the new March deadline ? in his Times interview , the Secretary of State suggest that local authority that miss that deadline will have development force on they and their power to delay application remove . can the Minister tell we precisely how that would be achieve ? the Secretary of State also suggest that recalcitrant council will be strip of their planning responsibility . can the Minister tell we who will take they on , give that the Planning Inspectorate clearly do not have the capacity to do so ? finally , although it be the Government ' s contention that the change make today will boost local plan coverage , surely the Minister recognise that even if that be ultimately their effect , it will be at the cost of overall housing supply because it will entail the enactment of numerous plan that will not meet the need of local community in full . in short , isn ' t the truth of the matter that today ' s change entail a deliberate shift from a plan - lead system focus on make at least some attempt to meet housing need , to one gear toward provide only what the politic of any give area allow , with all the implication that entail for the housing crisis and economic growth ? I thank the Opposition spokesperson for his comment , which I will address in turn . he start by say that this be the fourth time we have update the guidance in the last few year . if his criticism be that we be willing to listen , be flexible and adaptable , and recognise the difference between his constituency of Greenwich and Woolwich and the constituency of Government Back Benchers , then he be correct . we be willing to be flexible and adaptable , but we also recognise that we need to build more home ; we just want to ensure that they be build in the right place , which be exactly what today ' s update seek to do . the difference between my party and that of the Opposition spokesperson be that we recognise the nuance in the discussion . within the nppf , we be try to accommodate the fact that different area and part of the country have to be approach in different way . while the policy of the hon . Gentleman ' s party move backwards and forwards on different day of the week , we will continue to ensure that we build more home — in the right place , with the right infrastructure and with the support of the community . in the long run , that will ensure that we make progress on housing in general . the hon . Gentleman ask a question about freedom to plan . the housing need assessment will be make by all council , but council can make a case if there be an exceptional circumstance that apply in their local area . if that be not possible , there would be no exception for any council , local authority or community anywhere , which would be completely unnuanced . however , on a macro level it remain the case that we will seek to build more house . when council have plan in place , they tend to deliver more house than when such plan be not in place , so if we can get more plan in place , we will have the opportunity to build more home that have the consent and support of the community in which they will be build . the hon . Gentleman ask about urban uplift and the removal of co - operation with neighbour . we uplift the target and expectation on the basis that those house would go into city and would not be export into the countryside near city , because the whole point be to acknowledge the infrastructure in those city . there be school in London that be close because insufficient number of child be use they . we do not want to export housing elsewhere ; we want to use that infrastructure — include transport link and educational establishment — as be intend when it be build . this be not about whether we believe in a plan - lead system or not — we clearly do . it be about the fact that this Government be get on with the hard job of strike a balance , recognise the nuance and ensure that more progress be be make , versus the opposition state that they want to build house , but then vote against that happen in relation to nutrient neutrality . if they put their money where their mouth be and do what they say they will do , they would have the ability to stand up and make such argument consistently . they do not and , as a result , I will not listen to they . I call the Father of the House . before talk about the general policy , may I mention one small point ? in paragraph 22 of his statement , the Minister talk about energy efficiency in heritage building . in Ambrose Place in Worthing — include at the house of one of my neighbour , where Harold Pinter live — people be be tell that they can have only secondary glazing , not double glazing , because it be in a conservation area . I hope that the Minister will talk with expert and say that double glazing be acceptable in reasonable circumstance , when people want to improve the energy efficiency of their home . on the general point , the Minister mention the green belt . accord to one calculation , there be 16 green belt in England , none of which be in East Sussex or West Sussex . I interpret his word as mean " green gap " : an expression use by the Secretary of State when he comment on the problem of Worthing , where every single bit of grass — the vineyard , the golf course and the green field — between Worthing and its neighbour to the west be subject to a planning application . it be important that the inspector in his Department do not come along , as they do over the land north of Goring station , to Chatsmore Farm and the Goring gap and say that even if worthe build on every bit of lawn in town , it would not meet the full target , and yet give permission to build on that farm , which distinguish worthe from its neighbour . it be also important to follow up the Minister ' s word about intense development in the centre of village , town and city , so that there be home in high - density accommodation that elderly people can choose to live in , so that their family home can be free for family . the idea that most of the development on our green field be for family be for the bird — it be for people on their second or third home . I think people who be my sort of age ought to have the choice to live securely in high - thermal efficiency apartment , with service that do not require car , and where they can live more easily and happily . my hon . friend make an important point about energy efficiency , which I be happy to talk to he about in more detail . he be a champion for worthe West . I have family who live close to worthe , and know the Goring Gap well . he make a strong point about the importance of preserve character and ensure community build the right home in the right place , while recognise that there be place where that should not be the case . I be always happy to talk to he about that . this morning , the Secretary of State complain about house price . if the Government be now rightly acknowledge the impact of spiral mortgage payment on our constituency , when will they apologise for the cause of that — their disastrous mini - Budget ? I be glad to see that the talk point have already start from the Opposition back Benches . despite choose not to acknowledge it , the hon . Lady will know that interest rate have rise across the world , follow by a normalisation of interest rate for a number of month as a recognition of change economic circumstance . if the hon . Lady and her party want to continue to make mischief and nuisance about that , it be their right to do so , but that do not accurately reflect what have happen . this government will always try to work through those difficult situation and improve thing for the people of this country . will my hon . friend confirm that over the past 12 month , in writing and at the Dispatch Box , Ministers have consistently say that when make a local plan , planning authority will be able to take into account historically high house building level by lower the amount of housing they need to plan for ? Basingstoke and Deane Borough Council have deliver exceptional level of house building , with new home for 150 , 000 people over the last five decade . how will the Government now make good on their year - long commitment to recognise Basingstoke ' s almost unique position by do whatever be need to support the planning authority to successfully agree a revise local plan , with significantly low overall house building figure because of the very high amount of house building over the last five decade ? my right hon . friend be right that we consult on that subject . in recognition of that consultation , we have choose not to take forward the over - supply point at this time , but we be open to look at it and review it in the future . I accept Basingstoke ' s particular circumstance , and have speak to she separately about the recognition that there have be substantial building in Basingstoke over many decade . I be happy to talk to she about the exceptional circumstance provision and look at exactly how that may apply to Basingstoke . York be now the 15th least affordable place to live in the country . my constituent will have no confidence in what the Minister and the Secretary of State have set out today , because they have be wait for a local plan for 76 year and counting . the sticking point have be with the Government Department , not the will of the Labour council . when will York receive its local plan , be able to protect the precious space we have and build the tenure of housing we need , as oppose to developer move in and build luxury flat that no one can afford ? we be keen to ensure that local plan progress as quickly as possible , not just for York but for every other council that choose to pursue the process , and we will continue to add support and capacity into the system to ensure that that happen . in the write ministerial statement — as oppose to the oral statement we have just hear — there be a strong suggestion that there will be a review of London and the centre of London . one challenge we face in suburban London be that planning application for high - density , very tall building — normally comprise unit of two bedroom , two bathroom and one shared live space — be very suitable for young professional , but totally useless for family . there be a shortage of family accommodation in outer London , and people would welcome more house but not high - density flat . my hon . friend be absolutely right : a balance must be strike . we will review the situation in London . we do not think that it be acceptable ; we do not think that the Mayor have do his job in this regard and we will be review that . we also recognise — I hope my comment early indicate this — that there be place in urban area where character be very important , and we need to make sure that there be an appropriate balance in that regard . Liberal Democrat - lead St Albans City and District Council be rightly press ahead with the development of its local plan , after the previous conservative administration have its plan throw out by the inspector . two year ago , I write to the Government request additional funding so that we could accelerate our plan - make process , but the Government say no . I then request that they allow we to charge developer the full cost of processing application , but , even with all the tinkering , we be still not able to do that , and taxpayer in St Albans be still subsidise developer to the tune of £ 3 million a year to process their application . today the Government have ask our local council to publish a timetable in the next 12 week , but if Ministers and their official use Google , they would find it on the website . apparently , Ministers have announce that the new protection apply to area with local plan , but not to area with draft local plan . that mean that in St Albans , village such as Colney Heath , which be besiege by inappropriate development , will not benefit from the protection . will the Minister confirm whether our local district council and planning inspector can firmly say no to inappropriate , speculative development , or be this just another empty promise from this Government ? I believe that the liberal Democrats have be in charge of St Albans City and District Council since 2019 . that be four and a half year of opportunity to put a local plan in place . it be on the Liberal Democrats for fail to do so . perhaps the liberal Democrats could explain whether , as part of that local plan , they will take their share of the 380 , 000 home that their conference say they need to build in the future . may I ask the Minister for a very clear answer on the controversial matter of housing target ? basically , there be two way of do it : we can have mandatory target , where the man in Whitehall know good and hand down to local authority a target with which they have to comply whether or not it be sensible , or we can have advisory target , where the Department can recommend a target , but if the locally elect councillor and the people whom they represent know that it be too high and can give strong reason why — for instance , if their district or borough have a large amount of green belt — they can legitimately push back in their plan and offer a low number . so there be the mandatory option , which be the labour option , and the advisory option , which be the conservative option . be my understanding correct ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his question . for the first time ever , the NPPF say , at paragraph 61 : " the outcome of the standard method be an advisory starting - point " . then there be potentially exceptional circumstance that can be discuss with a representative of the Government — in this case the Planning Inspectorate — and the case can be make and then discuss . if that be accept , an alternative approach can be take . our country be face a housing crisis and , after more than 13 long year , the Government have utterly fail the nation . datum from Glenigan publish this week show that planning consent be at a record low , 20 % down on last year , and they be due to become the low in a decade next year . fifty - eight local housing authority have scrap or delay their local plan as a direct result of the Secretary of State ' s flip - flopping on housing target last year . do the Minister agree that the Government ' s flip - flopping and dither and delay be have a significant downward effect on planning and housing delivery ? I have the great of respect for the hon . Gentleman , but we need to have a serious conversation about this . planning consent be down because planning application be down , and that be due to the global economic challenge . [ interruption . ] labour ' s Front - Bench team do not want to accept that there be global economic challenge . that just demonstrate why they be so unready for the government of this country . we be try to make sure , first , that we work through the global financial challenge and , secondly , that we still build the home . one way that we undermine the building of more home — the kind of home that I know the hon . Gentleman and I would both like to see — be by not take community with we . what we seek to do today be inject more balance into the system so that we can take more community with we . if we can get more plan in place , it usually mean that more home be deliver in the first place . I thank the Minister for recognise the hard work that local community such as Hallow , Clifton upon Teme , Kempsey and Welland have do in my largely rural constituency to develop neighbourhood plan , the strengthening of which have be announce today . none the less , those community be be let down by the fact that our council be run by the independent and Greens , who do not have a local plan in place . can he tell we whether the additional protection from speculative development will be immediate or retrospective ? when will they take effect ? I be a huge fan of neighbourhood plan , as be many of my colleague across the House . they give community the opportunity to get involve in the planning process and to get into the detail . they also often demonstrate that have honest conversation with people about planning can take some of the challenge out of the system . we be update the NPPF with regard to neighbourhood plan , and we be strengthen they , as my hon . friend outline . the NPPF be extant from the moment that it be upload . there be some indication at the back of the plan where policy take priority at a later date , but we be commit to put neighbourhood planning at the centre of our planning policy , because we think that it be very successful and helpful for our community . I be somewhat perplexed by the renew focus on strengthen local plan give the abolition of the mandatory housing target that underpin delivery against they . indeed , the Minister appear to be outline a situation in which local authority can game the system and deliberately plan to under - deliver if they have an up - to - date local plan , but a local authority that be deliver can be strip of its planning power because its plan be not up to date . if the Minister be so committed to accelerate housing delivery , why be he create a situation in which we be both prevent greenfield building and stop significant increase to urban density ? we be not prevent increase of urban density . indeed , we want that to happen . we recognise that there be consideration around thing such as second staircase , which we be work at pace to resolve as quickly as possible . we want more home . we recognise that the infrastructure be often in place in urban area , and we be keen to take up that infrastructure to be able to unlock those home for people who need they . if I may take the Minister back to paragraph 61 , will he confirm that the inclusion for the very first time in the nppf of the word " advisory starting point " will have an impact on both the level of target set and the weight to be give to a target ? how , in practice , will that change the approach take by planning inspector when they approve plan and decide on individual planning appeal ? it be absolutely the case that the purpose of amend the national planning policy framework today be so that this information and wording , and the insertion of the advisory starting point and everything that follow , be take into account in the process , and it be important that the planning inspector do that . obviously , every single council be different , and we have set out the reality that each individual council will need to go through this process , but that should absolutely be take into account . I must say to the Minister that we have be here before with housing target ; I seem to remember Mr John Prescott — Lord Prescott — put this forward . one of the problem we have be that , in a vast area that include place such as the Somerset level , Exmoor and many other , sometimes it be very difficult to build housing . however , where we have an irresponsible council — Liberal Democrat , obviously , in Mid Devon — we have another problem , because they do not care . they do not listen . they be there just to cause trouble at every level . the Minister must make sure that the safeguard be there for people who live in these area — not hope ; we need actual safeguard . my hon . friend be absolutely right . that be one reason why we have be clear with a number of council today that they need to get on with thing . the whole point be that we put in place a process and a system that work and , for those actor that do not go through it , there be consequence . in constituency such as mine , the green belt be vital to protect we from the urban sprawl of Birmingham , so I welcome the statement , so far as it go with its protection for the green belt . however , can the Minister provide great clarity on the matter of target ? it would be very helpful to have a clear understanding of what be mean by the advisory starting point and its impact on any ongoing mechanism to impose the quota of other authority on a neighbour . on my right hon . friend ' s second point — I be grateful to she for raise it — the duty to co - operate have be supersede . the point of the advisory starting point be to be very clear that individual circumstance might apply within the context of the need to build more home in the right place . I can not pre - empt or suggest exactly what that will mean in all instance . there be an example in the nppf of where we think that be likely to be relevant , but obviously that will be discuss on a case - by - case , council - by - council basis . I thank my hon . friend for his statement . I be encourage by his word on provision of care and retirement housing and his focus on design quality . I have no doubt that we need more home , but green space and the green belt be of critical concern in Harrogate and Knaresborough . can he tell I a little more about the safeguard for the green belt under the conservative party , particularly compare with the Labour party ? my hon . friend be absolutely correct about the importance of old people ' s housing . we be currently in the process of support an old people ' s housing taskforce , and I look forward to its recommendation about how to improve it for the long run . the green belt protection remain today as they be yesterday . what we be put around they be a clear process about where the case for exceptional circumstance can be make . it will be down to individual council , with their individual circumstance , individual beauty and individual environment , to make that case where they feel it be appropriate to do so . community in South Ribble , include Eccleston , Mawdesley and Croston , be subject to Chorley Council . I understand that Chorley be one of only two council designate for poor planning performance . do the Minister believe that that poor performance be due to Chorley ' s failure to produce a local plan to protect South Ribble resident from inappropriate planning application ? my hon . friend be a huge champion for her constituent in South Ribble . we need local plan in place . I see when I first become an MP in North East Derbyshire , where the Labour council fail to put a local plan in place , the huge issue that cause for community . I know there be other council all around the country that fail to do that , and it cause so many issue . we have speak about some of the challenge in South Ribble , and I be keen to work with my hon . friend and to talk more about they over the week ahead . it be important that plan be put in place . where council be not perform — where they have not pass the threshold for the number of application they need to pass or have lose too many on appeal — we will designate and we will be clear that change be need . I place on record my gratitude to the Secretary of State for agree , this time last year , to put strong protection for land use in food production into the NPPF , and to my hon . friend the Minister for confirm today that they have survive the consultation period . will he clarify , first , that the new language in the NPPF be a binary test where land be either use in food production or be not , end the dancing - on - the - head - of - a - pin lawyer ' s paradise of argue about what be good and most versatile , and , secondly , that the character test he speak of apply to rural character as well as in urban environment ? on my hon . friend ' s second point , absolutely . on his first point , I will read the footnote to paragraph 1 . 81 of the NPPF : " the availability of agricultural land use for food production should be consider " . I hope that be helpful . I thank my hon . friend for much of today ' s announcement . in seat such as mine , it do not really matter what the target be when such a high proportion of the home that be build be just use as short - term holiday let . this time a year ago , we agree to another consultation , which finish this June . I ask again : when might we have the result of that consultation and step to ensure that , when we build home in community such as mine , those home be affordable for the people who live and work there ? I be grateful to my hon . friend not just for her question , which give we only a few second to talk about the matter , but for her Adjournment debate a few day ago , when we have a much long period to talk about it . she make a very important point ; I know how important it be to colleague in the south - east and elsewhere and , although I be not able to give she a date today , I hope to have more on that very soon . I welcome what the Minister say on the importance of neighbourhood plan , on agricultural land and on brownfield development . can he clarify what the consequence be if a district council have already embark on a consultation on a local plan but , have study the NPPF in detail , see stuff there that it want to embrace and choose to adopt element of the NPPF , which then lead to a consequential delay ? there be a long section at the end of the revise nppf that explain the arrangement for council that be in the process . we be try to strike a delicate balance , ensure that council go through that process to the extent that they be able to , while recognise that those in an early part of the process may want to consider some of the change . it generally be the case , if I recall correctly , that when council have pass the regulation 19 stage — the second consultation — there be a great expectation that they will stay in the process . it be ultimately for they to make their own judgment , but the Government will be watch the result . I think overall that this be a very good plan and very well deliver by the Minister . I welcome in particular the remark on character , on beauty , on the importance of agricultural land , on the importance of community support and on the fact that target be a start point and not an end point . those be significant change that mean that community can be listen to . will the Minister just confirm that the exceptional circumstance will be available — perhaps even welcome — for example include island separate by sea , such as my Isle of Wight constituency ? the footnote to paragraph 61 use as an example " area that be island with no land bridge that have a significant proportion of elderly resident . " I hope my hon . friend will welcome the fact that that sound very much like the Isle of Wight . the prize for patience and perseverance , with the last question of the year , go to Nigel Mills . it be a privilege , Madam Deputy Speaker . five year ago , the export of house from Derby make a local plan in Amber Valley impossible , but there be no reason for delay now . do the Minister agree that there be no reason for the Labour - run council not to have make more rapid progress with the pretty reasonable plan it inherit in May ? will he also confirm what the consequence will be if the 12 - week direction he have issue today do not result in rapid progress , to ensure that resident in Amber Valley get a local plan sometime soon ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and constituency neighbour , who I know speak up for his constituent . Labour win Amber Valley Borough Council and it now need to own ensure that the council deliver on its responsibility . if Labour have make promise to Amber Valley resident that it can not fulfil , that be on Labour . ultimately , it be the responsibility of council to make sure that they have a plan in place , and to do that at the early possible opportunity . where Labour council such as Amber Valley be fail to do that and be speak out of both side of their mouth , it be right that he call that out . Amber Valley need to get on with its plan . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a well - know matter of parliamentary protocol that when hon . member carry out visit and duty in another Member ' s seat , they notify the Member prior to their visit . time and time again , other hon . member have visit my seat on official duty and not notify I . they include , recently , the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) and repeat unnotified visit by the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) . perhaps the shadow Transport Secretary ' s notification get delay , just like the woeful bus service the Mayor of South Yorkshire be preside over , and perhaps the shadow Defence Secretary do not want to announce come to Brexit - vote Rother Valley on the back of Labour ' s new plan for close military tie with the EU . Madam Deputy Speaker , please can you confirm that mps on official visit to other Members ' seat should always notify sit member ? before I — [ interruption . ] thank you very much . we do not need any further intervention , but I will take a further point of order if the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne would like to make one . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . unlike the hon . Gentleman , I and my family actually live in Rotherham and if I notify he every time I be in his constituency , I would simply swamp his inbox . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . order . please , Madam Deputy Speaker . order . [ interruption . ] this be not a seesaw — [ interruption . ] Madam Deputy Speaker , my family live in Rother Valley as well and he know that . to say my family do not live there be disgraceful . perhaps the right hon . Gentleman be embarrassed about stand next to councillor who do not report the child sexual exploitation in Rotherham . perhaps that be why he be smile and do that . that be report by the Guido website . order . we will now calm down . [ interruption . ] I do not need the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) at the back to tell other member to sit down . if the hon . member for Rother Valley have to sit down , I will tell he to sit down . let we just clear up this matter in its various aspect . first of all , it be understandable that the hon . member for Rother Valley be angry about his family be bring into it . I be quite sure that the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne , on the Opposition Front Bench , will wish to withdraw that part of his remark and allow the House to concentrate on the fact that he do enter privately the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency frequently . [ interruption . ] will the hon . member for Rother Valley please be quiet and allow I to answer the question that he raise ? now , will the right hon . Gentleman remove from his remark the mention of the hon . Gentleman ' s family ? [ interruption . ] I think we be get a little confused here , largely because there be noise and when people shout I can not hear what other people be say . I think there have be some confusion , so let we just sort it out . the right hon . Gentleman do not say anything about your family , Mr Stafford . he say something about his own family and where they live . it be up to he — [ interruption . ] will you stop talk while I be answer the question ? the right hon . Gentleman do not say anything about Mr Stafford ' s family . if he have do that , that would be quite wrong and I would be the first to defend Mr Stafford . what we be talk about be a situation where Mr Stafford be quite rightly annoyed that the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne and the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley have , on several occasion , go into his constituency not on private business , but on party business or otherwise . where that occur , it should not . for the guidance of Members — although I know that the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne do not need it , because he be a long - stand Member of this House and one who normally behave with absolute honour in all that he do — we have the " Rules of behaviour and courtesy in the House of Commons " . this little booklet be recently send , in its newly amend version , to all member of the House . quite often , when Mr Speaker and those of we who occupy the Chair have to deal with point of order here in the Chamber , it be because member have not read it , or they might have read it or look at the cover but not take in its content . I would be most grateful if everybody would look at it . it be send very recently . this be a new version , publish in November 2023 . it be one of my few publish book ! I joke that it be mine , but it be not mine . it be put together by the House , but Mr Speaker and the Deputy Speakers have very considerable input into it . it would be helpful if member be to take on board what it say . the hon . Gentleman , Mr Stafford , have make a perfectly reasonable point of order . it have be respond to by the right hon . Gentleman , Mr Healey . I think we can leave it at that . thank you . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 22 November , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) say in this Chamber that " taxis for the average worker have go down by £ 1 , 000 . " — [ Official Report , 22 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 360 . ] on 30 November , she say : " taxis for the average worker will have go down by £ 1 , 000 since 2010 . " — [ Official Report , 30 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 1084 . ] in a subsequent letter to I , on 15 December , she effectively admit that taxis have not actually go down as she early claim . she now claim instead that taxis for the average worker be £ 1 , 000 low than they would have be . however , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury have refuse to correct the record so far . I would be grateful for your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , on whether there be any guidance available to Ministers on the circumstance in which they should seek to make such a correction . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give I notice of his point of order . as Mr Speaker have say many time from this Chair and I have repeat , the accuracy of Ministers ' statement in the House be not a matter for the Chair . the interpretation of statistic be a matter of interpretation and it be very often the case that one Member view a statistic from one angle and another Member view the same statistic from a completely different angle . the hon . Gentleman have make his point very clearly and I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have hear it . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . it may be helpful to the House if I draw its attention once again to paragraph 3 . 13 of the autumn statement document , which outline exactly how that £ 1 , 000 tax cut be calculate . I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order , which I think prove what I have just say . the hon . Gentleman and the hon . Lady be look at the same statistic and interpret they in slightly different way . that be what politic be about ; that be what this Chamber be about . it be about have a discussion from one side to the other . thank you very much . miner ' Strike ( Pardons ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to pardon miner convict of certain offence commit during the 1984 - 85 miner ' strike . I welcome the opportunity to speak about a matter of great importance to I and many other in my midlothian constituency and beyond . a miner ' pardon would be a powerful symbol of reconciliation . it would show we be prepared to put the past behind we and move on . the miner ' strike of 1984 - 85 be one of the most bitter and divisive event in british history . it be a time when miner , who be fight for their job and their community , be meet with the full force of the state . thousand be arrest and many be convict of offence such as breach of the peace , obstruction of the police and breach of bail condition . those conviction be a travesty of justice . the miner be hero , not criminal ; they be fight for their livelihood . the Scottish Parliament have helpfully already pass a law pardon miner who be convict in Scotland during the strike . I believe that now be the time for the UK Government to do the same for those miner in England and Wales . member may ask why I , a Scottish MP , be bring in this Bill . it be not only because some miner may have move from my constituency to England and Wales , but because any kind of compensation scheme would require a UK - wide pardon to be in effect . beyond that , it be a matter of justice . the miner deserve to have their conviction wipe away ; they deserve to be remember as the hero they be in their community . the miner ' strike be a watershed moment in british history , and it have a profound impact on Scotland especially . the strike be a national dispute , but it be particularly hard - fought in Scotland , where the coal industry be a major employer and a significant part of the culture and identity of many community . I have speak several time about the merit of a UK - wide inquiry into the miner ' strike of 1984 - 85 . over that time , I have gather the view and memory of many of those who be involve at the height of the strike . I move to my now hometown of Loanhead at the height of the strike in 1985 . criminal record , lose pension and social stigma be now the real - world consequence of the action that many take . many be still live with the aftermath today . a pardon , and indeed a public inquiry , could be a step on the way to get answer and redress for those affect by the many injustice cause by those event . we need to heal the wound of the past in order to move forward . do we learn from injustice and listen to the lesson , or would we do it all again give the chance ? those be the question that need answer for the sake of community across the country , especially my own in Midlothian . mining in midlothian date back all the way to the 12th century , when the monk of Newbattle Abbey first begin extract coal . by the 20th century , mining be integral to my community ' s way of life . Midlothian be home to a range of pit , from Bilston Glen and Monktonhall to the first victorian super - pit at the Lady Victoria colliery , which be still home to the National Mining Museum Scotland . I would welcome any hon . member who want to visit at any time — they can let I know that they be come if they want , but they can also come in their own time . it be a great visit . by the 1980 , mine mean miner ' strike . a token picket of six be maintain at Monktonhall , but Bilston Glen and Loanhead see mass picketing and some of the most bitter conflict of the strike in Scotland . accord to Professor Jim Murdoch , miner ' story " show without doubt that the criminal justice system all too often react in an arbitrary and disproportionate manner . " a former miner at Monktonhall colliery , and a former council colleague of mine , Alex Bennett , who sadly pass away in January this year , tell the inquiry in Scotland : " I be snatch by one of the snatch squad . they go for the union official and they know our name . the original charge be for rioting but that wasn ' t go to stick so they change it to breach of the peace . " the tactic be simply to use whatever mean necessary to get miner , especially union official , off the picket line and into the cell . breach of the peace , obstruct a police officer , breach of bail and theft — all those charge and more be twist to justify the snatch squad style of policing . these tactic would not look out of place in North Korea or Putin ' s Russia . serious question remain about the extent of allege political interference in the policing of the strike . arrest striker be sack and deny redundancy payment and pension right . the Scottish Government rightly recognise the scale of the injustice back in 2018 when they commission an independent review , lead by John Scott KC , of the impact of police on community , but the campaign do not start only then . I pay tribute to former MSP Neil Findlay , who be campaign as far back as 2012 for an inquiry and compensation for the miner who be catch up in this . that baton be pick up by Richard Leonard , who ensure that the Bill pass through the Scottish Parliament with the support of the Scottish Government . I have already mention former councillor Alex Bennett from Danderhall , who sadly die in January . my predecessor , David Hamilton , do so much to support the cause . then there be those who take part in support the Scottish Government ' s inquiry , include independent review advisory panel member Dennis Canavan , Jim Murdoch and Kate Thomson . follow testimony from former miner , police officer and mining community , the review group make one single recommendation : that the Scottish Government should introduce legislation to pardon miner convict for certain matter relate to the strike . the Miners ' Strike ( Pardons ) ( Scotland ) Act 2022 be welcome by the National Union of Mineworkers for remove the stigma of a criminal record . I be delighted to say that it be pass unanimously by the Scottish Parliament in June 2022 . it be never too late . by follow the lead of the Scottish Government , healing can start today for other part of these isle . numerous clash between strike miner and police officer result in injury and arrest . the UK Government impose tight restriction on picketing , make it difficult for miner to gather and protest , lead to frustration and anger among many community . the Government bring in non - union worker , which be see by many miner as a betrayal and lead to further violence and unrest . the carnage of that time see job lose forever , and the economic hardship cause by the strike lead to social problem such as poverty , unemployment , social deprivation and alcoholism . that have have a hard knock - on effect on other community , as industry and business that rely on coal be also force to close . many struggle to make end meet . in some way , it all resemble a civil war , create huge division and strife among family and community . the strike be see as a full - scale attack by the Government and police on miner and their community . it be only right that this place now take the chance to recognise the solidarity that miner and their community have , and still have to this day , by bring forward a pardon . it would be a lasting symbol of recognition of what go wrong during the decline of the coal industry , of the destruction of town , village and their way of life by the Government of the day . the strike be still remember with a great deal of bitterness in community like mine . we could do the right thing by right the wrong of that time . I encourage all member to support the Bill . it be never too late to right the wrong of the past . question put and agree to . order , that Owen Thompson , Martyn Day , Alan Brown , Marion Fellows , Ben Lake , Patricia Gibson , Douglas Chapman , John Mc Nally , Alison Thewliss , Hannah Bardell and Steven Bonnar present the Bill . Owen Thompson accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 143 ) . Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Bill ( Allocation of Time ) order , that the follow provision shall apply to the proceeding on the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Bill : timetable ( 1 ) ( a ) proceeding on Second Reading and in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third reading shall be take at today ' s sit in accordance with this order . ( b ) proceeding on second read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion 3 hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . ( c ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion 4 hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . timing of proceeding and question to be put ( 2 ) when the Bill have be read a second time : ( a ) it shall , despite Standing Order No . 63 ( Committal of bill not subject to a programme order ) , stand committed to a Committee of the whole House without any question be put ; ( b ) proceeding on the Bill shall stand postpone while the question be put , in accordance with Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( money resolution and way and mean resolution in connection with bill ) , on any financial resolution relate to the Bill ; ( c ) on the conclusion of proceeding on any financial resolution relate to the Bill , proceeding on the Bill shall be resume and the Speaker shall leave the Chair whether or not notice of an instruction have be give . ( 3 ) ( a ) on the conclusion of proceeding in Committee of the whole House , the Chair shall report the Bill to the House without put any question . ( b ) if the Bill be report with amendment , the House shall proceed to consider the Bill as amend without any question be put . ( 4 ) for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 1 ) , the Chair or Speaker shall forthwith put the following Questions in the same order as they would fall to be put if this order do not apply : ( a ) any question already propose from the chair ; ( b ) any question necessary to bring to a decision a question so propose ; ( c ) the question on any amendment , new Clause or new schedule select by the Chair or Speaker for separate decision ; ( d ) the question on any amendment move or Motion make by a Minister of the Crown ; ( e ) any other question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude ; and shall not put any other question , other than the question on any motion describe in paragraph ( 11 ) ( a ) of this order . ( 5 ) on a motion so make for a new clause or a new schedule , the Chair or Speaker shall put only the question that the clause or schedule be add to the Bill . ( 6 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 4 ) ( d ) on successive amendment move or Motions make by a Minister of the Crown , the Chair or Speaker shall instead put a single question in relation to those amendment or motion . ( 7 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 4 ) ( e ) in relation to successive provision of the Bill , the Chair shall instead put a single question in relation to those provision . other proceeding ( 8 ) provision may be make for the taking and bring to a conclusion of any other proceeding on the Bill . miscellaneous ( 9 ) Standing Order No . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on the Bill . ( 10 ) Standing Order no . 82 ( Business Committee ) shall not apply in relation to any proceeding to which this order apply . ( 11 ) ( a ) no Motion shall be make , except by a Minister of the Crown , to alter the order in which any proceeding on the Bill be take , to recommit the Bill or to vary or supplement the provision of this order . ( b ) no notice shall be require of such a Motion . ( c ) such a motion may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( d ) the question on such a motion shall be put forthwith ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( c ) shall thereupon be resume . ( e ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on such a Motion . ( 12 ) ( a ) no dilatory motion shall be make in relation to proceeding to which this order apply except by a Minister of the Crown . ( b ) the Question on any such Motion shall be put forthwith . ( 13 ) ( a ) the start of any debate under Standing Order No . 24 ( emergency debate ) to be hold on a day on which the Bill have be set down to be take as an order of the day shall be postpone until the conclusion of any proceeding on that day to which this order apply . ( b ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply in respect of any such debate . ( 14 ) proceeding to which this order apply shall not be interrupt under any Standing Order relate to the sitting of the House . ( 15 ) ( a ) any private business which have be set down for consideration at a time fall after the commencement of proceeding on this order or on the Bill on a day on which the Bill have be set down to be take as an order of the Day shall , instead of be consider as provide by Standing Orders or by any order of the House , be consider at the conclusion of the proceeding on the Bill on that day . ( b ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to the private business so far as necessary for the purpose of secure that the business may be consider for a period of three hour . — ( Scott Mann . ) Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Bill Second read [ relevant document : Eighth Report of the Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee of Session 2021 - 22 , Post Office and Horizon — compensation : interim report , HC 1129 , and the Government response , HC 1267 ; oral evidence take by the Business and Trade Committee on 20 June , on the Post Office , Session 2022 - 23 , HC 1501 ; oral evidence take by the Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee on 17 January , on Royal Mail and the Post Office , Session 2022 - 23 , HC 1045 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . the Post Office Horizon scandal , which begin over 20 year ago , and the impact of which be still feel today , be rightly describe as one of the big miscarriage of justice in our history . the House will be aware that during the late 1990 the Post Office begin instal Horizon accounting software , but fault in the software lead to shortfall in branch ' account . the Post Office demand that postmaster cover the shortfall and , in many case , wrongfully prosecute they for false accounting or theft . attempt to protest their innocence fall on deaf ear , and decent , honest and hard - work postmaster who serve at the heart of our community be subject to a range of abject harm . take the case of Alan Bates , who be one of a number of hero in this tale . as many member will know , Mr Bates be due to be immortalise on our screen on 1 January in the ITV series " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " , which will make compelling view for many of we . he be an innocent man who , alongside his partner Suzanne , invest £ 100 , 000 of life saving to start a new life and run the post office branch in Craig - y - Don , on the north Wales coast . when shortfall begin to emerge , Mr Bates be accuse by the Post Office of mismanagement and order to repay the difference immediately . he protest his innocence and identify some of the suppose shortfall as the result of an overnight software update . the Post Office continue to pursue payment , meanwhile refuse Mr Bates the IT access necessary to interrogate his own branch account . his postmaster ' s contract be subsequently terminate , with Mr Bates lose his likelihood , saving and reputation in his community in the process . suspect that other postmaster may have suffer because of Horizon issue , Mr Bates launch his campaign website . ultimately — 15 year later — he gather enough evidence to successfully take the Post Office to court and expose the scandal . like Mr Bates , my constituent Mr and Mrs Simpson run a village shop and post office that suffer from the faulty software . they have campaign for compensation through the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance , and Mr Simpson himself give evidence at the public inquiry . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to my constituent and their colleague ? without their determination and courage , we would not be where we be today , deliver this Bill to support those victim . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , and I particularly thank Mr and Mrs Simpson for their work — of course , a number of people campaign so strongly on this tragedy . I pay tribute to his constituent and to many other like they who make sure we be here today , deliver justice and , indeed , compensation for those postmaster . Alan Bates ' s case be one individual tragedy , but he be only one among many : over 3 , 000 people have suffer in some way as a result of this scandal . for some , that mean pay the Post Office money they do not owe . for other , it mean the loss of their livelihood , their home , their mental or physical health , or their family relationship . too many have die before get justice ; sad of all , some of those death be suicide . each Horizon victim be a personal tragedy , and it be imperative that each and every one get the justice and compensation for which they have wait too long . this Government be commit to deliver justice for all Horizon victim . part of that justice will come from make sure that everyone know the truth about what happen , which be why the Government set up the statutory inquiry into the scandal chair by Sir Wyn Williams . the work of that inquiry to date be commendable — it be do important work in expose the truth . from that truth will follow corporate and individual accountability , for which there be a strong appetite in this House and beyond . I sympathise with hon . member ' desire to see accountability right now , but we must let justice take its course . on the Minister ' s point about corporate responsibility , I have the chief executive of the Post Office come and apologise to one of the people I have represent in this exercise . the point I make to he , which I hope the Minister will also take on board , be that the corporate behaviour of the Post Office have not be above criticism : it have employ very expensive lawyer to make this process much more difficult for the victim than it need to be . I hope the Government will continue to encourage the Post Office not to do that . absolutely — we want to make it as easy as possible . I thank my right hon . friend for his campaigning on this matter , too : he be one of a number of parliamentarian who have do fantastic work to make sure we be here today . I have refer to both corporate and individual responsibility . corporate accountability be not enough : where we find that individual be to blame , they should be hold to account too . any compensation must be fair and just , and we have create a Horizon compensation advisory board to help we make sure that happen . I be very grateful to the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , both for his campaigning on this matter and his work on the advisory board . he sit on the board alongside Lord Arbuthnot , who be another great campaigner on this matter , and two academic . its report , which be publish on gov . uk , have be invaluable in help we ensure that the scheme be work properly and deliver fairness . as part of the Post Office ' s process for compensation for overturn conviction , it be — by agreement with claimant ' lawyer — appoint an independent assessor for the process , whose role will be to ensure that fair compensation be pay . the Minister be right when he say that this be a miscarriage of justice . as I have often say in this place , I be formerly a postmaster , and I can remember when the till do not balance . unlike the Post Office , I believe my staff that it be not their fault — that there be an error . luckily , those error be not significant , and we just write they off . I thank the Minister for all he have do , as well as my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , who have equally do an enormous amount . the Post Office do not believe those innocent postmaster who be simply do their job , but equally , Fujitsu supply the software that do not work properly , yet I never hear about whether that company be culpable . can the Minister tell I what Fujitsu have ever have to suffer from what have happen to everybody else ? I thank my hon . friend for his work on this issue , as well as his direct experience — he be one of the few people in this House who have that experience . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) for all the work he do as my predecessor ; his comment about Fujitsu , and about make sure that it be not the taxpayer alone who pick up the tab , be clearly on the record . again , where responsibility can be assign , there should be accountability , perhaps in the form of compensation pay by those company . it be right , though , that the Sir Wyn Williams inquiry be allow to take the time it need to report and to identify blame where it exist . those matter can then be deal with at that time . alongside introduce this Bill , my Department publish a revise version of the document for the group litigation order scheme , which make clear than ever that the scheme exist to pay full , fair and timely compensation . if compensation can not be agree with my Department , a decision will be make by a panel of independent expert . any GLO postmaster who believe that the panel ' s award fail that fairness test can ask the scheme ' s independent reviewer , Sir Ross Cranston , to look at their case . between they , those arrangement provide powerful and independent assurance that compensation be fair . turn to compensation amount , to date , around £ 138 million have be pay out to over 2 , 700 claimant across the three compensation scheme establish by the Post Office and the Government . those figure be regularly update on the dedicated gov . uk page . so far , 93 conviction have be overturn . we have see positive progress since my previous statement to the House on 18 September , which announce that postmaster who have have conviction on the basis of Horizon evidence overturn be entitle to up - front offer of £ 600 , 000 as a fix sum in full and final settlement of their claim . I can confirm that follow that announcement , the first 22 claimant have now settle their claim with the Post Office , take the total to 27 full and final settlement — I hope this will encourage other postmaster to submit claim . I should add that a significant proportion of those claimant follow the fix sum award route . the GLO scheme , administer by my Department for the 500 trailblaze postmaster who take the Post Office to court and expose the Horizon scandal , have already pay out roughly £ 27 million across 475 claimant . postmaster who be neither convict nor member of the GLO can apply to the Post Office - run Horizon shortfall scheme . I be pleased to say that every last one of the 2 , 417 people who apply before the scheme ' s original deadline have now receive initial offer of compensation , and some £ 87 million have be pay out . the Post Office be now deal with late application and with those case where the initial offer be not accept . I turn now to the provision of the Bill before we . the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Bill , a small Bill of just two clause , provide a continue legal basis for the payment of compensation to victim of this appalling scandal . principally , it will enable the Government to continue to pay compensation under the GLO scheme that my Department be currently administer . compensation payment make under the scheme be currently pay under the sole authority of the successive Appropriation act , and Parliament require all such payment to be make within a two - year period . the first payment of interim compensation be make on 8 August 2022 , mean that , with the law as it stand , no GLO payment can be make beyond 7 August 2024 . this Bill remove that deadline . this certainly do not mean we be take our foot off the gas . we will still want to be able to pay compensation as quickly as possible . my Department be now committed to make an initial offer of compensation in 90 % of case within 40 working day of receive a fully complete GLO claim , and many claim will be deal with much more quickly . however , as Sir Wyn Williams have note , the resolution of compensation claim require action by postmaster , their adviser and third party , as well as by the Government . in his interim report , which he provide to Parliament in July , Sir Wyn express concern that the August deadline could leave some postmaster time out of compensation or rush into make decision . the Government agree that this must not happen , and the Bill ensure that it will not happen . all GLO postmaster will get full and fair compensation , and they will get it promptly without be unduly rush . in conclusion , until everyone have fair compensation , the truth be know and the guilty be hold accountable , member of this House and other will rightly continue to raise issue about this scandal . in the meantime , the House should know that this Government be on the side of the postmaster , and we will continue to give these issue our full attention and do our good to resolve they . this Bill be a further example of that , and I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I want to begin by pay tribute to member across the House who have work tirelessly on this campaign , particularly my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) for his work in campaign on this issue and Lord Arbuthnot for his many year of work in tackle this injustice . of course , as the Minister have say , we all pay particular tribute to Alan Bates for his pioneer work in this campaign and for work tirelessly to seek justice . without his bravery and perseverance , the campaign would not be where it be today . the Horizon scandal , as we have hear from the Minister , be a truly shocking miscarriage of justice and one of the most devastating in british history . the scandal have bring devastation to the life of over 700 falsely convict sub - postmaster , and 20 year on , they and their family be still suffer from the consequence and the trauma of all they have be put through . I want to pay tribute to their determination for pursue justice . the wrongly accuse sub - postmaster have have to endure unjust prison term , family breakdown , homelessness , bankruptcy , health consequence , be ostracise from their own community and bad , to say nothing of the mental health toll and the stress they have all carry while know that they have be wrongly convict . I do not think any of we can truly understand the scale of what they have suffer . as of 10 August 2023 , the Post Office Horizon IT inquiry and the court case have hear that at least 60 sub - postmaster have die without see justice or receive compensation , and at least four have tragically take their own life . most recently , Tom Brown , a constituent of my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham , sadly , pass away . he be the sub - postmaster of several branch span 30 year , and he die without receive his full and final compensation . my thought , and I be sure those of the whole House , be with his family and friend at this time , as well as with the many other who have lose love one affect by this horrific injustice . many have suffer and continue to suffer because of this scandal . Tracy Felstead be a post office worker who be jail when she be just 19 . Rubbina Shaheen suffer a prison sentence as a result , and have to sell her house and live in a van . Seema Misra be pregnant with her second child when she be convict of theft and send to jail in 2010 . she say : " it be the bad thing . it be so shameful . " as a result , she experience regular suicidal thought at the time . those be just a few of the example in a tragically long list . this be a scandal that have destroy victim ' life and take everything from they , but this case be beyond just be a scandal ; it be an insidious injustice that have be devastating and have in some case claim people ' s life . the suffering of the sub - postmaster can never come close to be repay , but the very least the Government can do be ensure that they receive their fair compensation as soon as possible . many of those who , sadly , have pass away never live to see their innocence prove or to see the compensation that they deserve pay . with further delay to the compensation , the Government run the risk of more sub - postmaster not receive the compensation they deserve as soon as possible , so it be vital that Ministers act with urgency and speed . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . I pay tribute to the campaigner , particularly Mr Bates and , indeed , hon . member from across the House . the point she make about the Government , the Post Office and , indeed , Fujitsu learn lesson from this appalling scandal be absolutely right , and I do hope that the Minister , when he speak later , will be able to address those point . do she agree with I that it be very important that the Government learn the lesson and help the Post Office learn the lesson of such awful incident ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , and I know that the Minister will be keen to make sure that these mistake be never repeat and that the lesson be learn . it be vital that we act with urgency and speed , and I look forward to the full publication of the Post Office Horizon IT inquiry , so that we can ensure that those responsible be finally hold to account . it can not be right that they have not be hold to account as yet , when so much time have pass . I want to thank Sir Wyn Williams and the inquiry team for their ongoing work . the Labour party will work with the Government to do what we can to ensure that justice be deliver , and as such we support the Bill . the Government must now confirm how they will use the extra time that this Bill grant to deliver justice as quickly as possible . I welcome some of the detail that the Minister have provide in writing as well as what he have say today , and I hope that he ensure that the necessary action be take to ensure delivery and that the compensation be provide as quickly as possible . once again , I pay tribute to all those who have work tirelessly to secure justice , and I commend this Bill to the House . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to ease my way back on to the Back Benches and speak about this issue and a number of other . after nearly four year of deal with covid and its effect on the hospitality sector , the Online Safety Bill and gambling harm , nothing have keep I awake at night more than the plight of the sub - postmaster who fall within the Horizon scandal and the big miscarriage of justice in british court history . I welcome the Bill and thank the Minister for all his work in try to rectify the situation . it be horrendously complex , with many strand of compensation and a lot of different compete need and demand . it be lovely to see on the official ' bench some familiar face of those who have work tirelessly over many year , include precede my time as Minister . this provision be not just to extend the time available and ensure that we be ahead of the process for August next year , but be important in itself to keep this issue in the public eye . Mention have be make of " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " , which I be look forward to see in the new year . with all the compete interest of what be happen in the middle east , in Ukraine , and in people ' s personal life here in the UK , it be important that we remind ourselves of what can happen if one corporation overstep its reach . we must always remind ourselves of that , and we must drive our way through to solve this issue , get the answer that the postmaster need and , importantly , restore their financial situation as good we can to where they be before the detriment occur . I remember how we pull lever when I be a Minister and use the fact that the then Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , stand at the Dispatch Box and say , in answer to a question , that he would happily look at a public inquiry . that give I carte blanche to lean in and ensure that we use that authority , and with the backing of official and my Department , we start what be originally a non - statutory inquiry that then become statutory . it have to become statutory after we hear from the judge in the Court of Appeal . at the time I genuinely want it to be non - statutory , not because I want to resile from anything that be happen , but purely and simply for speed and ease . it be so that we could concentrate on get the postmaster compensation and the answer they want , rather than have a layer of lawyer — frankly we be see that at the covid inquiry at the moment — look at other thing outside the narrow term of reference . we clearly have to have a statutory inquiry once the judge at the Court of Appeal outline his thought . despite the complexity , when I first speak to Sir Wyn when appoint he at the beginning , we be hope that the inquiry would be wrap up by now , and it be frustrating that by necessity he be still go through the deliberation , take evidence and work through a hugely complex situation . it be disappointing but understandable that compensation be take so long to get out , for reason that the Minister have already describe regard how we work through such complexity . the shadow Minister talk about how the Minister might use the extra time beyond August . I hope we do not need that extra time and that it be there to get ahead of the process , rather than say that we will extend the process because we have carte blanche permission to go beyond 24 August and kick it into the long grass . as we have hear , people can not wait . People be die , people be take their own life , people have be force out of their village . indeed , the constituent of one hon . Member be force out of the country for fear of the shame of something they have not do in the first place . with hindsight , if I be back at the start of the process I would like to run the compensation all in one go from the Department . [ interruption . ] the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) be nod his head , because he ask about that at the time . I very much take on board the work he have do not just as a campaigner but on the advisory committee . I put a lot of weight both on his word in the Chamber and on those he say to I informally outside it , when we could talk in more depth about what be happen with his constituent and the other people we be speak about . if we have run the compensation as one process within the Department , it could have help to narrow the focus of what need to be do . I be not ask the Minister to go down that line , but whatever happen in the month to come , I hope he will always look at provide flexibility and at what more we can do to keep the pressure on . there be a phrase in the civil service and in government about do thing " at pace " . it be a phrase I never really hear outside government — I always hear it in government — and the problem be who define what pace something be . what we mean be quickly , or " more haste less speed " , as my old teacher use to say . as I have say , this be the good thing I will ever do in politic , and the official in the Department , many of whom be here today , have repeat that . it have become very liberating , because I think we be all on the same page . we all want to get this do now , not only so that we can get people compensation , but so that we can get answer and justice , and put on the hook those who should be on the hook , rather than the taxpayer . it be also important to do that for the future of the Post Office . I see the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) , the chair of the all - party group on post office , in her place . if this be any other type of corporation or company , the chance be that it would have go to the wall and go bust by now as the reputational damage would have be too big . the Post Office be too important for the fabric of our society to allow it to go by the wayside . to address its the future , we have to tackle the past as well . make sure that those two strand be run together be so important . I will leave it at that . I do not want to keep the House too long , but I remember Tracy Felstead , Janet Skinner , Seema Misra , Christopher Head , Lee Castleton and other people , some of whom still keep I in touch with what be happen , usually on Twitter , or x . I wish everyone in this House a merry Christmas . I hope that we all have a good rest and a happy new year , but I want those postmaster affect to have as good a Christmas and new year as they can . I want to make sure that Christmas 2024 be an even well Christmas and new year for they , because by then , I hope we will have sort the compensation as well we can and bring this to a close , so that they can move on , and so can the Post Office . I call the SNP spokesman . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) . in no way do I want the speech I be about to give to seem mean - spirited , but thing have to be say , so I will say they , and I hope in a justifiable way . while the Bill be welcome , to ensure that no Horizon victim who be part of the group litigation order miss out on compensation , we must ensure that despite the extension , all effort be make to compensate victim fairly as soon as possible . I thank the Minister for his remark on that in his opening speech . it be hard to see why such a Bill , which do nothing more than empower the Secretary of State to pay compensation , have take so long to get here . concern be first publish in the medium in 2009 . in 2015 , the Post Office scrap its independent investigation into the system by Second Sight the day before the report be due to be publish . Post Office Ltd concede a court case admit Horizon fault more than four year ago , on the day of the last general election — a move that seem to have be time to avoid scrutiny . call for compensation have be clear and long . this Bill could have be pass in the first month of this Parliament , but it be not . it be now come to the fag end of this Parliament , and we need to move on . I know that everyone be committed to that , but fact be fact . we still have no idea , three and a half year after settle , why the situation be allow to go on for so long . many victim , as we be all well aware , have sadly pass away , and some by their own hand . they never see proper justice and proper compensation for the year of trauma they endure at the hand of Post Office Ltd . their family still suffer . the ongoing inquiry have be blight by further delay and disclosure issue by Post Office Ltd . each inquiry delay disgracefully delay justice and the payment of compensation . there must be no further setback obstruct the delivery of justice . the inquiry have uncover further scandal upon scandal , and the pervasive culture throughout Post Office Ltd between 1999 and today have be one of dishonesty , incompetence and deceit , raise further question over all Post Office conviction in this period , not just those link to Horizon . the action of Post Office Ltd employee at various level and in various department , include those responsible for auditing and investigation and in the legal department , have be bring to light in the most recent stage of the inquiry . at every level , there be clear culpability . the boastful manner in which some of those responsible celebrate the conviction of innocent sub - postmaster , while know of Horizon bug , add insult to injury for victim . the Bill be too narrow in its scope , and in the interest of justice , it should be broaden to ensure that everyone who have be investigate and convict by Post Office Ltd have their case investigate to ensure that no other miscarriage of justice have happen . there be still question to be answer about the Post Office ' s co - operation with the inquiry and its relationship with Fujitsu , past and present . in April 2023 , Post Office Ltd renew the contract with Fujitsu , which create and provide the Horizon software , for another year . so far , Fujitsu have avoid any financial penalty as a result of the faulty software , with the burden fall on the Government and Post Office , but in January 2022 member of the other place say that Fujitsu should dig into its pocket for do nothing while the scandal unfold in front of its eye . the inquiry be investigate how much Fujitsu be aware of the problem with its software , the risk of false reporting and what could have be do to prevent the tragedy . Gareth Jenkins , the former chief architect at Fujitsu , be due to give evidence at the statutory public inquiry on 6 and 7 July this year . so far , he have not be able to do so . some 4 , 767 document , include some that be significant to Jenkins ' s evidence , be only receive from Post Office at 10 . 32 pm on 5 July , allow no time for lawyer to analyse they . he be schedule to give evidence after the summer break , and he subsequently ask for a guarantee that his testimony could not be give as evidence against he , which be deny . we be still wait to hear from he . I therefore support amendment 1 , table by the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , which would ensure that we know the whole truth about the allege error carry out by Post Office Ltd , beyond Horizon . all potential victim of the practice of Post Office Ltd must get the justice they deserve . beyond that , real question need to be ask of successive UK government — whether Labour or Tory — who allow the scandal to fester under their watch . as the sole shareholder in Post Office Ltd , successive UK government have utterly fail in their oversight of the company , allow the most widespread miscarriage of justice to continue for two decade . even in more recent time , the current UK Government have allow repeat scandal to occur , with bonusgate be one of the many despicable recent episode that have bring yet more shame to a once trust national institution . the Secretary of State for Business and Trade describe the debacle as " news to we as Ministers . " however , document obtain through a freedom of information request by campaigner Eleanor Shaikh show that Ministers and official endorse the Post Office inquiry metric as part of their approval of its chief executive officer and chief financial officer in the transformation scheme . a letter request approval be send to the Department for Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy ' s permanent secretary and accounting officer in July 2021 , outline detail comprehensively . the document be then send to the Secretary of State for Energy and Industrial Strategy , and Ministers give their endorsement five month after the inquiry become statutory . likewise , the UK Government Investments representative on the board be well aware of the inquiry ' s sub - metric . it be absolutely clear that Post Office Ltd ' s current system of governance need to be address immediately to ensure a great level of oversight and transparency in decision making by the Government and the UKGI representative on the Post Office Ltd board . there be question to be answer about Post Office ' s co - operation with the inquiry and its past and present relationship with Fujitsu . the management of Post Office Ltd have be expose , and question remain over its continued stewardship of our post office network . indeed , I become interested in post office because of the decline in the network , know nothing of Horizon at the time . early this year , London Economics produce a report show that the social value deliver by Post Office be 16 and a half time great than the financial input it receive from the Government . closure have pick away at the post office network , as the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam mention . the Department for Business and Trade must do more to protect community . I extend my sympathy to the victim of this scandal , who still endure the trauma inflict by Post Office Ltd . the Minister be right : we be all here today to make sure that people get the compensation they deserve . however , some of the figure be sober . I understand that some of the problem may be due to the difficulty of make a claim in the first place , and I thank Dan Neidle for his exposure of that . I pay tribute to all the campaigner . I will also make a special apology — to Alan Bates — because at one point , when I do not realise the significance of what have happen , I say that I do not believe in witch hunt . I still do not believe in they , but evidence be build against those who have make serious mistake and error , and who , in some case , have hide fact . I be pleased to hear the Minister talk about corporate and individual responsibility , which be really important . I thank he for say that compensation claim will still be pursue vigorously . this be really a technical Bill to allow payment to carry on , and they must do so as speedily and efficiently as possible . nothing can make up for the trauma that so many people have go through , but we need to compensate those who have suffer , and we need to compensate they properly , well and timeously . I declare an interest as a member of the Horizon compensation advisory board . I rise to welcome the Bill and the reasoning behind it , as outline by the Minister . I must say that the Minister be commit to ensure that we make the scheme as fair and equitable as possible . as he say , it would have be unjust to have leave the sword of Damocles that be the arbitrary deadline of next August hang over the head of potential claimant . it be right that the Bill be bring forward . I echo the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) that we do not want to see delay in compensation , but , because of the trauma that individual be involve in and the complexity , some case may take long than other . may I , at this point , put on the record my thank to the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ? have deal with the issue for more year than I care to remember — and , I must say , have deal with a succession of useless minister who literally accept what their civil servant say and continue to parrot that , even when they know that the Horizon system be at fault — it be a credit to he that he be the only one who grasp the situation and get to understand its complexity . I also welcome the private chat we have on some of the issue . he be right that the scheme be not easy to implement , but he be willing to question thing that be clearly wrong and to put it through . I would not want to make the Minister blush , but if people want an example of a Minister do his job and have something to look back on and be proud of , they should look at his response to this matter . I do not want to downgrade the present Minister , who have pick up the baton and , as the poacher turn gamekeeper that he be , be follow through to ensure that the scheme and justice be deliver for those individual affect by Horizon . as have be mention , I first get involve because of a constituent call Tom Brown , who come to my surgery . I say to any new member in the House that if they ever get a case in a constituency surgery and think , " this sound complex , but it just seem wrong , " they should dig into it and stick with it . Tom be a sub - postmaster in North Kenton in Newcastle . he have work at other post office before that , but he and his wife have buy a sub - post office in North Kenton for £ 150 , 000 , which he see as an investment not only for he but for his family ' s future . he run it with his wife ; they have a convenience store , and it be successful until the Horizon computer system come along . like many victim , he be give initial training on the system , but it come out in the inquiry that it be completely inadequate . not long after Horizon be instal , Tom start have shortfall . if they be small , many people just make they up , but in his case they get to £ 85 , 609 . 03 . he could not reconcile it , despite go to the helpline and say , " look , something ' s wrong here . " the helpline just ignore he . in November 2008 , two Post Office employee come along to do a branch audit , which be when the nightmare for Tom and his family begin . he be accuse of steal the £ 85 , 000 . despite his effort to explain the shortfall in the system , no one listen , nor do they listen in the many other victim ' case . Tom have invest in property : he have his business , investment property and his own house . he have the indignity not only of his name be in the local newspaper as someone who have steal £ 85 , 000 but of have his home search by the Post Office , look — strangely enough — for the £ 85 , 000 , as though he have it stuff under the bed . the indignity of that be remarkable . we must remember that these individual be pillar of the local community ; people look up to they and respect they in their community — and that be suddenly all tear away . in his witness statement to the inquiry , Tom describe the sensational medium wildfire , which be disturb for he and for his family . he be open in his statement that he consider suicide — sadly , we have hear that at least four people have take their own life . he do not because of his strong family . the irony of his situation be that when the Post Office prosecute he , the case go to Crown court only to be withdraw on the day it be hear . he be find not guilty of false accounting because no evidence be put forward . the judge say in his sum up : " I ' m sure you ' ll be take this far , Mr Brown " . by that stage , Tom be leave bankrupt . he be accuse of steal £ 85 , 000 , his name sully . that lead to hardship not just for he but for his family . he have to sell his property and his business , after it flounder . his son have to take he in and also get into financial difficulty , borrow money to support his father , and they end up in social housing in my constituency . the family be completely break . I want to stress this aspect : we talk about the individual victim , but the effect on their family must be highlight and compensate . some family member need counselling because of the effect on they , and Tom ' s witness statement to the inquiry sum that up well . sadly , Tom do not live to see the compensation he deserve , nor to see his name clear and those involve in his case bring to justice ; he pass away a few week ago . I add my condolence to his family . his name be still there with Alan Bates , who have be mention , and the other who fight this case . would we have get to where we be today without those people ? no , we would not , because even when the Post Office know that the system be flawed , it spend £ 100 million of taxpayer ' money defend the indefensible in court as a result of the litigation bring by Alan Bates and the rest of the 555 . the tactic of the Post Office be very clear : it be to use public money — our money — to outspend the postmaster who have take it to court . that be outrageous , give that it subsequently come to light , during the inquiry and also in court , that the Post Office know that it do not have a leg to stand on . it be force to settle out of court because it have run out of money , which be the intention of the Post Office and the Department that be in charge at the time . do we need to get this system move ? yes , we do . have be on the advisory board , I understand the complexity of the scheme . would we start where we be start now if we be start afresh ? no , we would not — but 60 people have already die , include Tom , and it be imperative now for we to try to get this compensation pay to their family and to the other postmaster . the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam also say that we would not have start here . we now have the group litigation scheme , the historical shortfall scheme and the overturn conviction scheme . be it too late to try to pull those three into one ? I personally think it be , and I do not know what the Minister ' s civil servant would do if we suggest it . in any event , I do not think that it be the way forward . one thing that I do welcome be the appointment of Sir Ross Cranston as the final arbitrator in the process . if people be not happy about the level of compensation they receive , there will be that final independent arbitrator . there have always be this point about independence . do any of those involve trust the Post Office ? no , they do not . do I trust the Post Office ? no , I still do not trust it , give the way in which it have handle this matter . the right hon . Gentleman be make a great speech , and he have get to the crux of the situation , by talk about trust . the postmaster have have plenty of word — 20 year of seemingly reassuring word — that they can not trust , and it be incumbent on all of we to act . I entirely agree , and I think that that be how the hon . Gentleman help — in try to cut through the word . but whatever I say , he say or anyone say , be these people ever go to trust the Post Office ? in his statement to the inquiry , Tom say : " I think the Post Office be the most corrupt organisation around . " I have to say that I do not disagree . this be not about people make mistake ; in public administration , people do make mistake . this be clearly a cover - up conspiracy and , I think , downright criminality on the part of certain individual . I will return shortly to how we be to get justice in respect of those individual , but the Bill be about compensation , and I think it important that we take this step forward . I want to pay tribute to some of those who have keep the fire burn over the year , include Lord Arbuthnot — James Arbuthnot , who have be a tireless campaigner on this issue since he be in the House of Commons — Nick Wallis , and Karl Flinders of Computer Weekly . they have do great work in push the issue forward , and they need to be thank for it . I also want to raise an important point in respect of the scheme we have now . I do not think that new development could come about , but they have . this be relevant to amendment 1 , which I table but which be unfortunately not select for technical reason . Lo and behold , a few month ago I learn that there have be another scheme , which could almost be describe as a son or daughter of Horizon but which precede it . it be trialle in the north - east of England . the only reason I know about it be that I be contact by the son of a lady somewhere in the north - east — she do not want any publicity — who want I to come and see she . when I go to see she , I think , " this sound like a Horizon case but it can ' t be because the date be wrong . " lo and behold , we now learn that 300 trial be do , mainly in the north - east , before Horizon . that lady will not get compensation . she be prosecute and I understand that another case have now be find . this also come out at the inquiry . when all the publicity come out about Horizon , why do no one come forward and say , " by the way , do you realise we have another system on the go at the beginning and we prosecute people under that system ? " I know the Minister be on to this , and I be certain that the advisory board be as well . there be potentially other people who be prosecute because of another fail system that be not Horizon . that need address as matter of urgency because there be people out there who be clearly innocent . I think the lady I have just mention could be describe as have post - traumatic stress disorder . she be completely mentally scarred by the episode . if we can get justice for that individual and other , we should certainly do so . I commend the right hon . gentleman for make that salient point . I be aware that there be many affect postmaster and family in Northern Ireland , include some in my constituency . what they be seek be a timescale for when all postmaster in Northern Ireland — and , indeed , across this great United Kingdom — can expect to receive their compensation , and I hope that the right hon . Gentleman be go to ask for that now . those in my constituency have not receive any word about compensation yet . do he agree that when the Minister sum up the debate , we want to be give the timescale for the compensation ? we want to know that right away . yes . we now have this Bill and we have get the compensation scheme move , and I think we need to move very quickly to get the money pay out . another issue relate to overturned conviction . nearly 900 people have be convict , 700 - odd through the Post Office . some of they in Northern Ireland and Scotland be convict under a different system . some be prosecute by the DWP , for example . I will not rehearse the argument now , but only 93 of those conviction have be overturn and that do not sit right with I . somebody ask I why people have not come forward , but they be never go to come forward . they have be so scarred and traumatise by the court process that they will never go anywhere near a court process again . we need to tackle that , and I will cover that when I speak to my amendment later . I welcome this Bill . my final point be on responsibility . if this scandal have happen in the United States , which take a very different approach to financial crime and misdemeanour , people would be in jail by now . the evidence be all there , and I accept that Sir Wyn be slowly prise it out of the Post Office , but there be individual such as Paula Vennells , who , ironically , get a CBE in 2019 for service to the Post Office , even though she oversee all that be go on . I have write on numerous occasion to the Honours Forfeiture Committee to get that take off she , but I have have no answer . if there be one broad lesson to be learn from this scandal by Ministers and future Ministers , it be that when the state do something like this that be so wrong , there should be no hiding place for anyone who have be responsible . Sir Wyn be do a great job in his inquiry to unearth some of these thing . Fujitsu have be mention . that be an organisation that definitely have some huge question to answer . I think there be two part to this . first , we have to get the compensation pay . the Minister have commit to try to put people in the position they would have be in if they have not be affect , which be what we need to do . will the compensation ever fully compensate they for what they have be through ? no , it will not — they will have a scar — but it will help . the other important thing be that the people responsible should be bring to justice and have their day in court . clearly , they need to answer for it . I finish with the final line of Tom Brown ' s evidence to the public inquiry , at paragraph 89 : " I would … like to find out who be responsible once and for all and to see someone take accountability for the wrong doing of the Post Office . " I could not have put it well myself . I will be brief . first , I want to congratulate the Minister and his predecessor , the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , on the way they have progress this issue , which have cause so much devastation for business , family and individual right across the United Kingdom . People who think they have a good business , work at it , invest in it and trust the Post Office to do right by they , find that they be betray by those who know that mistake be be make and know that the system be faulty , yet , rather than admit to the failing , decide to pursue innocent individual . I do not want to elaborate on the story we have hear today , but this Government body and its official wilfully pursue case that they know would destroy individual , family and reputation . as have be say , postmaster and postmistress be often regard as pillar of society in their village or locality , and they suddenly find themselves paint as if they be thief . it be know from an early stage , it would seem , that the accusation be totally false . one postmaster say to I , " surely somebody in the Post Office must have know at an early stage that it be not one or two individual but hundred of people who have serve blamelessly for many year . do they think a virus have come into the system and turn they all into criminal ? somebody must have ask question . " it seem that someone do ask question and that , as the inquiry have show , it be know at an early stage that there be flaw in the system and the system be wrong . even when it be find that these people be right , ten of million of pound be spend on pursue they through the court , as that be an easy way to shut they up , rather than admit that mistake have be make . I welcome the three thing the Minister have say today , although he will have to come back on a regular basis to reassure we . the Bill extend the period in which payment can be make , but we can not keep delay compensation for the many who have be leave destitute , have their reputation ruin and lose their business . although the Minister have indicate that , technically , all the Bill will do be allow the compensation period to be extend in case that be need , I hope that provision will not be use — I accept his assurance that he do not intend for it to be — to drag out the compensation scheme , and that it be only for case with complexity that will take time to work out . I hope he will come back regularly between now and August to update we on the number of case that have be deal with , settle and sort out . I welcome the point the Minister make about corporate and individual responsibility . we need to have that , because it be clear that individual in the organisation know that what be be do to sub - postmaster and sub - postmistress be wrong and yet the corporate response be , " let ' s not admit anything . " as a result , some people be drag through the court and finish up with prison sentence . it do not really matter what level of compensation we give , because how can we compensate for broken marriage , ruin reputation , wrongful imprisonment , premature death and even drive people to suicide ? no level of monetary compensation will ever deal with that , which be why it be important that those responsible be hold to account , that there be no hiding place for they and that we do not see the affront we have have so far of the head of the Post Office at the time actually be reward . indeed , not so long ago a Member draw to the House ' s attention the fact that the Post Office bonus scheme mean that individual in the Post Office be actually be give bonus for give information to the inquiry that they ought to have be give in any case . what the Minister say on that be important . I note the Minister ' s comment that taxpayer should not have to bear the burden of the money that have to be pay out . Fujitsu know that its system be flawed and it have not be hold to account . the Minister say that , " where responsibility can be assign " , the Government would seek to have compensation draw from Fujitsu . the evidence give to the inquiry already show that a large degree of responsibility can be assign to Fujitsu . if that be the case , I trust that the Government will be rigorous in purse that company . it seem odd that a company that supply such a system should have have its contract renew not so long ago . we need great scrutiny of that and we certainly need to see not only individual hold responsible , but the company that supply the faulty software hold responsible for make some of the financial compensation to these individual . it be good that we have the Minister and his predecessor , the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam , here today . they be to be congratulate on the rigorous way in which they have pursue this matter . it give hope that at least this issue be not go to be ignore , but it be important that we have regular update so that the public can have assurance that Parliament and the Government be not ignore it . I call Gerald Jones to make the last Back - Bench contribution . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I rise to make a brief contribution . as we know , the Post Office Horizon scandal be one of the most insidious injustice our country have ever see . the Post Office be one of Britain ' s most well - know and trust brand , but the sheer scale of false prosecution and the aggressive way in which they be pursue have destroy its reputation . but more than that , it destroy the reputation , life and livelihood of former sub - postmaster who have be upstanding member of their local community . Post Office manager decide to aggressively pursue prosecution against sub - postmaster even when they know that the Horizon system have deep - root fault . the Post Office compound that by tell individual sub - postmaster that they be the only one experience problem . that be clearly not the case . quite simply , those cold , calculate decision ruin life , include those of some of my constituent in Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney . I have learn from they , over a number of year , about the impact on their life , livelihood , mental health and wellbeing . the fact that the Post Office be able to mount prosecution in such a cavalier way be simply shocking . today , we be talk about compensation for former sub - postmaster . member from across the House be clear that the compensation be for wrongful and malicious prosecution , and that get compensation to all victim as quickly as possible be vital if we be to right the wrong of that injustice . as the shadow Minister say , Labour will work with the Government to do whatever be require to deliver justice , and I will support the Bill . however , the Government originally commit to resolve all compensation case by Christmas . it appear that that have not happen , so will the Minister explain why that target be miss and how the extra time provide in the Bill will help to deliver justice to everyone as quickly as possible ? as we all know , it simply can not come soon enough . it be timely to be have the debate on the day we rise for Christmas , as we know that there will be many decent people affect who , 20 year on , be spend yet another Christmas without proper compensation . it have be a short but sobering debate on the victim of the Horizon scandal and how the Government intend to ensure justice be deliver . I be pleased to sit opposite the Minister again and to hear his commitment to a full and fair process , and I be pleased that the Bill be go through this place . however , the need to extend Government power to deliver the compensation scheme be , of course , disappointing news to those affect . I will not keep the House long to summarise our support for the Bill , to thank all those who have campaign for so long and to ask the Minister to respond to some important point that have be raise . as member have set out , the Bill extend the power for the Government to deliver one of the compensation scheme for some of the victim of the Horizon scandal beyond August 2024 . I join other in thank those who have get we to this point . I pay tribute to the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance , which have campaign for decade for compensation and justice . we could not have a debate in this place on this topic without thank my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , who have be tireless in his work . I thank Lord Arbuthnot for his work in this area , and many other . the Horizon scandal be one of the most insidious injustice our country have ever see . get compensation to all victim as quickly as possible be vital if we be to right this injustice . as the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Bow ( Rushanara Ali ) , make clear at the start of the debate , Labour will work with the Government to do whatever be require to deliver justice . there be some good speech . the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) work hard as a Minister and be right to be proud of what he do in this area . it be good to see that he have ease himself back into the Back Benches . I note his praise , which be increasingly rare , for Boris Johnson for start the process for the inquiry . I be sure the Minister note his lesson that if we be do this from scratch , the Business Department would perhaps have run all the compensation scheme in the first place . the hon . Gentleman be right that we talk about do thing " at pace " in this place all the time , but we just mean quickly . we need to keep up the speed , which have be sadly lack , give that we be 20 year on from the original scandal . my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham give a full , comprehensive and compelling speech . his quote from his constituent Tom Brown be very move , give that his constituent do not survive to receive his compensation . my right hon . Friend spell out the indignity of his experience , describe how he be the pillar of his community , and how awful the situation have be for he and his family . I note my right hon . friend ' s suggestion about the need for counselling for some people , because this have be extraordinarily impactful — way beyond financial term . my right hon . Friend also talk about the lesson that the Government need to learn . I note his advice for Ministers and future Ministers . without jump to any conclusion , Mr Deputy Speaker , I take that advice , as do the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Bow . he talk compellingly about the clear evidence that the Post Office know what the problem be , yet still spend all that money defend the indefensible . he be right to make that point so powerfully . question about Fujitsu and other be well make by the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) . my hon . friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) make a good final speech , in which he call on the Minister to explain why the target have be miss and what more can be do . this may be a relatively straightforward , simple piece of legislation , but it do relate , as all member have say , to one of the UK ' s most widespread miscarriage of justice . we have hear tale of people who have be affect . so many of they spend their 60th birthday in prison as a result of error . other people lose their entire life saving repaying shortfall . my hon . friend the shadow Minister talk about Seema Misra , who be pregnant with her second child when she be convict . she have an absolutely awful time . local press report at the time describe she as " a pregnant thief " , which be horrific . we need to keep those story at the heart of everything we do while we try to make sure that people get the compensation they deserve . Mr Deputy Speaker , we support the passage of this Bill , but we do have some question that we would like the Minister to address , many of which have be set out today . the key one be what the Government will do in this extra time to ensure that compensation be deliver as quickly as possible . the Minister say that the Government be set a target of 90 % be complete within 40 working day . he use the expression , " promptly without be rush " . will he elaborate a bit on what that mean in term of the resource and the capacity that will hopefully increase the number of case move through the system to get to a happy conclusion ? Alan Bates , who have be widely praise in this debate and who lead the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance , be report as say : " it ' s all well and good extend the deadline , but the Government have to try to meet the current deadline . the life of the victim who have live with this for a long time be not be extend . " that be a good and sobering point . it would be helpful if the Minister say more about how he be go to speed up that work . the Minister also make broad remark . can he clarify from his early remark how many people have reach a settlement use the £ 600 , 000 offer that he announce ? he say something about a proportion , but it would be helpful if he could give we a number . do he have any estimate of the proportion of victim that he consider to be fully compensate ? do he have a timescale for the completion of compensation for those he consider not to be fully compensate ? when do he hope to have all this do by ? the Minister have be ask how he will ensure that mistake like this be not make again . obviously , we have the inquiry , which be carry on at its own pace . I do not know whether he have do any work on learn those lesson , so that we do not make mistake like this again . as we close the debate , I wish to end by again put on the record our thought for all the victim who have not have their case solve and who face another Christmas without justice . with the leave of the House , it be a pleasure to conclude this debate . we have hear insightful contribution from right hon . and hon . member across the House , many of whom have champion this cause and campaign for justice on behalf of postmaster for many year . I pay particular tribute to the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , my hon . friend the Member for Telford ( Lucy Allan ) , the hon . member for Jarrow ( Kate Osborne ) , for Kingston upon Hull East ( Karl Turner ) , for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) and for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) and other , who have demonstrate the good of cross - party campaigning in the interest of those affect by this scandal . I have address the House many time on the subject of the Post Office Horizon scandal , both as a Back Bencher and now as the responsible Minister , and I want to respond to the specific point raise in the debate . the shadow Minister who open the debate , the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Bow ( Rushanara Ali ) , rightly talk about further delay . I want to stress that this be not about further delay , but about prevent an arbitrary date be set , so that people whose claim have not be submit or be not at the stage where it have be complete or settle can still get compensation . I say to the other shadow Minister , the hon . member for Croydon Central ( Sarah Jones ) , as I say in my early remark , that the commitment be that we will get 90 % of offer out in 40 working day . we be do a number of thing to expedite settlement and accept claim , not least the fix - sum award for overturn conviction . she ask about the number of people who have take that route . for confidentiality reason , we do not think it be right to state the actual number , but it be a significant proportion , so certainly it be a route that many people think be the right one for they to take . obviously that be a matter for the individual , and claimant can pursue the standard full assessment process if they feel that be their good option . not everything be within our gift , and that be one of the frustration that we have , because these claim can be complex and require legal input from the claimant ' s side . it can take time for the claim to be compile before they be submit . that be one of the reason why we think it be right to delay the long - stop date of 7 August next year . the hon . member for Croydon Central ask about the resource and about how we will expedite the settlement . she may be aware that we have recently commit to additional resource for the Post Office . part of that be to increase the resource commit towards the inquiry , but another part be commit to compensation . we think all the resource be there to get this money pay out within the timeframe we have set out . I pay tribute again to my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) for all of the work he do on this scheme . it be perhaps a little bit ironic that I use to push he from the Back Benches and now he be push I from the Back Benches on a similar issue . he be a very sad loss to the front Benches in this House ; he do a fantastic job and he speak with great authority on this subject . as he say , the good work he do in the Department he attribute to this particular area , so I thank he for all he have do . my hon . Friend ask whether we need to extend this the long - stop date and why . it be very much a long - stop position . we want to get the payment out before 7 August but , as Sir Wyn Williams advise , this be the right thing to do . my hon . Friend also ask whether , if we be to start again , which I do not think be the right thing to do , we would do thing in this way , with three different compensation scheme . I think Sir Wyn Williams say something very similar : we would not do it like that , but all together in one single scheme . however , we be not there and it be right to push ahead now with the work we be do in this form . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who be not in his place , say that we need to go fast , not slow . we be not go slow ; we be go fast , and that be what we be keen to do . the same issue be raise by the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , who rightly push we to make sure we be deliver this at pace . my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam also talk about do thing at pace ; " pace " be a word I use a lot in my Department — my official will probably support that remark — so I totally agree with he . if I may say so , I think the pace in a Department should be dictate by Ministers , so it be my responsibility to make sure that the scheme be deliver at pace . my hon . friend wish the House a merry Christmas ; I be pleased , and I think we should all be pleased , that 27 family have have conviction overturn and may be able to enjoy their Christmas a little bit more than previous christmas . their ability not only to receive compensation , but to move on and move away from some of the trial and tribulation that they have face in get compensation and get justice , be welcome by everyone in the House . as always , I thank the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw for the work she do on the all - party parliamentary group on post office . she point out the very significant value that post office have in community . I could not agree with she more that the disclosure area be unacceptable . that should not have happen and we make that very clear to Post Office management . I agree with she entirely on Fujitsu . anybody who be show to be responsible for the scandal should be hold accountable , and that may also include compensation . we have state that on the Floor of the House on a number of occasion . she refer to senior executive in term of the inquiry sub - metric , have repay bonus voluntarily . those be not something we would want to see in future . I also agree with she and other , include the right hon . member for North Durham , about some of the people who have be instrumental in this matter outside this House . she refer to Dan Neidle . Nick Wallis , Karl Flinders and Tom Witherow have also be important contributor in ensure that sub - postmaster get the justice they deserve . I thank the right hon . member for North Durham again for all his work and for his work on the advisory board . he talk about a sword of Damocles and be right to say that we be remove it . he speak very movingly about Tom Brown and what happen to he : the indignity of have his home search , hardship , bankruptcy , the impact on his family , and his reputation in the community . all be intolerable situation . he sadly pass away prior to receive compensation . in my constituency , Sam Harrison , a sub - postmaster in Nawton , near Helmsley , go through a similar set of circumstance , certainly in relation to financial difficulty . she sadly pass away early this year without receive compensation . there be a huge human cost , as well as a financial cost . I talk to the advisory board about potential counselling that might be make available to sub - postmaster . we also talk about restorative justice . Sir Wyn Williams have refer to that and it be something we be keen to look at . the right hon . Gentleman mention a predecessor to the Horizon scheme in the north - east . if we be on the same page , I understand that be a pilot scheme for Horizon , so we be confident that our current compensation scheme can deliver outcome and compensation for the individual he refer to , but if he do not agree with that I be very happy to have a conversation with he . that be welcome , but I think the Minister know my view on the advisory board . we need to try to find out exactly how many people be prosecute and in what circumstance . it shock I , and I think the Minister too , that even with all the publicity about Horizon , no one actually say , " by the way , we have this scheme . " if it have not come out in the inquiry , or I have not intervene to see that individual in the north - east , would it just have be forget about ? those people will not be forget about . I be very happy to work with the right hon . Gentleman and the advisory board on any matter he raise with I . I think we be very like - minded on all the issue he have bring to we so far and we be keen to deliver solution where we think they be require . I agree with he about Sir Ross Cranston . I work with Sir Ross from the Back Benches . he come in with the review of the Lloyds - hbos scheme and do a fantastic job . I also agree with he on hold individual to account . whether it be Lloyds , hbos or Post Office Ltd , I do not think we will ever stop these thing happen until we hold individual to account . he talk about Paula Vennells ' CBE . I think Sir Tom Scholar , the head of the relevant body on the forfeiture of honour , have say that we need to wait until the end of the inquiry to consider that , but it should certainly be look at . I completely associate myself with the comment of the right hon . Gentleman ' s former constituent Tom Brown in relation to hold people to account . in response to the hon . member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) , yes we be allow ourselves extra timescale but we do not want to use they . on the Christmas deadline , I think we be on the same page on this . it be Christmas this year for the Horizon shortfall scheme . we have now deliver offer to 100 % of those people who have apply through that scheme , which meet our objective . nevertheless , many of those case be complex and not everything be in our gift to ensure that claim be put in promptly so that they can be deal with quickly . I thank the right hon . member for East Antrim for his kind word . I commit absolutely to give regular update to the House . I be very happy to come to speak to hon . member about this , both on the Floor of the House and by other mean . there be regular update about compensation payment on the gov . uk website . I agree entirely with he about accountability and the need to ensure that the guilty be hold responsible . he be right to say we will be rigorous with anybody who be show to be guilty , include at Fujitsu . he be also right to say that there be some thing associate with a tremendous scandal that we can never compensate people for . that be why we be here , keen to deliver a final resolution to these problem . my Department and I continue to work hard to ensure that those affect by the Horizon scandal receive the full and fair compensation that they be owe . the Bill be just part of the action that the Government be take to defend the interest of postmaster . I commend it to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Committee of the whole House ( Order , this day ) . further proceeding on the Bill stand postpone ( Order , this day ) . Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Bill : Money King ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any expenditure incur by the Secretary of State under , or in connection with , scheme or other arrangement — ( 1 ) to compensate person affect by previous version of the computer system know as Horizon ( and sometimes refer to as Legacy Horizon , Horizon Online or HNG - X ) use by Post Office Limited ; ( 2 ) to compensate person in respect of other matter identify in High Court judgment give in proceeding relate to the Horizon system . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Bill Proceedings resume ( Order , this day ) . consider in Committee [ Mr Nigel Evans in the Chair ] I remind member that , in this capacity , I be not the Deputy Speaker , but " Chair " , " Mr Chairman " or whatever you want — just not " Mr Deputy Speaker . " Nige ? and not Nige , either . clause 1 - expenditure in connection with compensation scheme relate to Post Office Horizon system etc . question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to consider clause 2 stand part . thank you , Chair Nige — el . we have a useful second reading debate . I be grateful for the constructive contribution from member across the House . I welcome the chance for a more detailed examination of the Bill in this Committee of the whole House . clause 1 provide the continue legal basis to pay compensation to member of the group litigation order scheme beyond the current deadline of 7 August 2024 . as we have discuss , that be the deadline by which the Government aim to have conclude compensation payment to GLO member , but that power remove any doubt as to our ability to fund compensation beyond that date should it prove necessary . clause 1 do that by empower the Secretary of State to make payment " under , or in connection with , scheme or other arrangement — ( a ) to compensate person affect by the Horizon system ; ( b ) to compensate person in respect of other matter identify in High Court judgment give in proceeding relate to the Horizon system . " that definition provide additional flexibility beyond the specific GLO scheme to facilitate compensation payment relate to Horizon should it ever be require in future . clause 2 set out the short title of the Bill . question put and agree to . clause 1 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 1 - Eligibility of Potential Claimants " the Secretary of State must amend the scheme to which this Act apply to ensure that — ( a ) all person affect by the Horizon system who have have their conviction quash be compensate on the same basis , regardless of the rationale of the decision to quash the conviction ; and ( b ) all person affect by the Horizon system with extant conviction relate to the Horizon system be compensate on the same basis as those claimant with quash conviction , with the exception of those claimant whose conviction be base on clear , compelling and corroborated evidence . " — ( Mr Kevan Jones . ) bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . I rise to speak to new clause 1 , which stand in my name and those of the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) , the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Mr Davis ) and for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , and my hon . friend the Member for Jarrow ( Kate Osborne ) . the clause would do two thing : first , it would provide that all those with overturn conviction would receive compensation on the same basis , include the so - call public interest case . secondly , it would provide for all those with conviction that have not be overturn to receive compensation on the same basis as those with overturned conviction . I will deal with both issue in turn . reference have already be make to the number of overturn conviction that have go through the Court of Appeal . Lord Arbuthnot and I approach the criminal case review body about 10 year ago to highlight the injustice of these case . in 2020 , the Criminal Cases Review Commission start refer case to the court to overturn the conviction — the number of Post Office Horizon case send back to the court have already make this the most widespread miscarriage of justice see by the ccrc . many of those case have be describe in quite a lot of detail today , with individual such as pregnant woman and other be send to prison , include individual who have since have their conviction overturn . in April 2021 , 39 former sub - postmaster have their conviction quash by the Court of Appeal . the court conclude that the Post Office should not have prosecute they in the first place , and find the Post Office ' s conduct to be " an affront to the conscience of the court " . what have subsequently come out in the inquiry make I wonder how on earth some of these people sleep at night , know what they know at the time while pursue those individual in court . early , I make reference to Paula Vennells , who I understand be also an ordain Church of England priest — she clearly do not extend her godliness and forgiveness to those who be clearly innocent , but who she be quite content to see prosecute . as far back as 2011 , if not early , she know that the Post Office system be not infallible , as other thing possibly be in biblical sphere . as the right hon . member for East Antrim say , the idea that we suddenly have a huge influx of kleptomaniac work for the Post Office — that all these individual be somehow guilty — be absurd . it should have ring alarm bell , but it do not . the Post Office go on regardless . not only do it pursue people and take they through the court , but it take individual such as Tom Brown to court and then , at the last minute , supply no evidence , have already ruin those people ' s reputation and life . as have be say , 93 individual have have their conviction overturn so far , but there be many more people whose conviction remain unchallenged . we have have some debate on the advisory board about the number — I think the figure for the Post Office be about 700 , but another 200 - odd case relate to Horizon issue be prosecute by other body , include the Department for Work and Pensions . it worry I that only 93 of the 700 Post Office case have be overturn . some people might ask , " why haven ' t these individual come forward ? " have meet many of they — those who have have their conviction overturn , or other victim of the sub - postmaster injustice — I think that they just want to close this chapter of their life . they be not go to go anywhere near a court , and in some case they have pass away . however , I urge anyone who be prosecute to please try to come forward , although I know how difficult that be for some individual . it be to the credit of the Minister and the Department that they have try to reach out to some of these people but , as I say , have meet they , I know that be not very easy . I come next to paragraph ( a ) of new clause 1 , on compensation on the same basis . where an appeal take place depend on where a conviction be make . if an individual be convict at the Crown court , they can go to the Court of Appeal , and this do not require a retrial . however , if an individual be convict in a magistrate court , the appeal be take to a Crown court , and the case must be retry . if the respondent — in this case , the Post Office — do not volunteer to retry the case , the judge could actually quash the conviction . such public interest case receive low compensation than other overturned conviction , because the Post Office deem that in many case people plead guilty on false confession and that be the basis of their conviction . my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull East ( Karl Turner ) be not here today , but we have hear before from he about how he represent one individual who be actually advise to plead guilty to get a less sentence . some individual do plead guilty , but in many case that be do on legal advice . we know that many sub - postmaster have already be traumatise by have false accusation make against they and , as I say , they be advise to plead guilty to get a less punishment . unfortunately , in many case that do not lead to a less punishment , but it do not change the fact that those conviction be simply unsafe . five individual have have conviction overturn so far on that basis , yet despite , have their conviction overturn in these so - call public interest case , they be entitle to less compensation than other . I think that injustice need to be address . as the Minister know , the advisory board , of which I be a member , have address this . in the minute of our September meeting , we say that the approach fail " to put these victim of overturn conviction in the position which they would have be have they not be prosecute … the rationale for treat they differently in effect re - victimise they ; and it be also contrary to the state intention … not to run scheme on too legalistic a basis . " it also go to the heart of what I think the Minister be commit to , which be make sure that people be put back into the position they would have be in if they have not be involve in the Horizon compensation scheme . paragraph ( b ) of new clause 1 relate to sub - postmaster who be convict , but have yet to have their conviction overturn . as I have say , there be about 900 individual who be convict on the back of Horizon - relate issue , and only 93 of they have have they overturn . that leave quite a few hundred people who have be criminalise by the system and whose conviction have not be overturn . they be therefore unable to get compensation , even though this have not only devastate their life through have a criminal conviction , but cause related problem of loss of income and other thing . overturn conviction take time , and for many , as I have say , it involve a process that they will simply not pursue , because that will reopen wound that be already deep . when we speak to some of the individual , they say they just want to close that part of the life . in many case , they be terrified of any form of publicity around these case , because they do not want to be re - victimise , as I have say . new clause 1 would entitle all those with Horizon - relate conviction to compensation on the same basis as those who have have their conviction overturn . I know that be possibly a radical solution . there will , of course , be a small number of people who do wrong , so it be right to exclude people when there be clear and compelling evidence of wrongdoing , and not simply the guilty plea . there be a big difference between a false confession — a guilty plea put forward on legal advice — and someone who have clearly do something wrong . I would not want to suggest in any way that individual who have do something wrong , when there be evidence behind that , should receive compensation . some people might think that I be put the cart before the horse , but it be important to bring the matter to the attention of the House . I do not accept — I think this be a strong feeling among member of the advisory board — that the other 700 or 800 people be somehow guilty of what they be accuse of . again , the advisory board raise that issue , and its minute of an October meeting state clearly that " as long as unjust conviction be maintain , which clearly involve 700 or 800 people , the mean of deliver any compensation … be seemingly block . this be itself a major affront to a civilised state . " that issue need address . I know that the Minister will be meet the Lord Chancellor , and those on the advisory body have ask to meet he as well . there be broad issue around how the Post Office pursue some of the investigation . when we talk about people who be responsible , there be certainly a question mark over some of the lawyer involve in the process who might have some professional question to answer . I think that automatically quash those conviction be the way forward . I accept that the new clause would put the Minister behind the eight ball a little bit — I see his official sweat in the Box — but I would like he to address the issue I have raise . he be well verse in a number of these question , as we have go round they in the advisory board , but if we be to bring closure to this issue , leave the matter unresolved be not acceptable . I feel very strongly about that . I be not minded to press the new clause to a vote , but I would like the Minister to reply to my point . if he can not give an answer today , perhaps he could give we some idea of his thought on how we will resolve this issue . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) for speak powerfully to new clause 1 . as the Minister hear , he raise the important point that 93 conviction have already be overturn , and there be hundred of other people who just do not have the bandwidth to face the trauma of have to go through the legal process . it be imperative that the Government ensure that we get ahead of this issue and do not have to come back to the House to consider how we support that group of people who do not have the appropriate compensation programme in place . I encourage the Minister to consider the new clause seriously , and to work with we to ensure that we address the issue that that group of sub - postmaster face . as my right hon . Friend point out , many of those sub - postmaster ' conviction be not build on sound evidence , and they be base on guilty plea that they be advise to offer to reduce the sentence put before they for false reason . as he also point out , we see the spectre of the Post Office spending £ 100 million of public money — taxpayer ' money — to go after those sub - postmaster and cause the injustice that we be now try to correct . it be therefore crucial that those who do not want to go through a legal process , because of the trauma they have face , have the support of the Government in deal with this issue separately through the Department ' s work . my right hon . friend be involve in that , work with the Minister , his official and my party . the new clause would ensure that the victim of all Horizon - relate conviction that have not be quash be entitle to compensation on the same basis , as have be point out . my right hon . friend be not press the new clause to a vote , but I hope the Minister take it seriously . I know that when he be on the Back Benches , he be a powerful campaigner on not only this issue but many other . as he be in a position of power , we look to he to make sure that the hundred of other in this position be properly support and protect , and that they do not face the double jeopardy of be victim without the compensation that the vast majority of they rightly deserve . I thank the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) for his new clause on the eligibility of convict claimant to access compensation . Eligibility for compensation currently depend on a conviction be overturn . appeal against conviction in a magistrate court go to the Crown court , where a retrial of the original offence be hold . when decide whether to oppose an appeal in the Crown court , the prosecution must apply the relevant test in the code for Crown prosecutor . that test have two part . first , the evidence must be such that there be a realistic prospect of conviction . in some case , that test be meet because a prosecution conclude that Horizon evidence be not essential to the case . in those case , the prosecution must consider the second test , which be whether it be in the public interest to hold a retrial . retry someone for an offence allegedly commit year ago , for which they have already be punish , would be harsh . in such case , the conviction be quash on public interest , rather than on evidential ground . those case differ from those where Horizon evidence be essential to the prosecution and an appeal be concede by the Post Office . in response to the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about guilty plea , there be case where conviction have be make upon Horizon ground where there be guilty plea , but those have now be overturn . a guilty plea be not a barrier in itself . notwithstanding that , it be open to claimant to submit a claim to the Post Office compensation scheme . I recognise the concern express by many about how the Post Office appear to have discharge its prosecutorial power . accordingly , we should remain open to consider any new evidence on liability in relation to these specific public interest case . the right hon . Gentleman ' s new clause refer to the payment of compensation to people with conviction . he be right to say that to date the court have only overturn 93 case , which be a small fraction of the more than 900 conviction prosecute by Post Office and non - Post Office prosecutor during the time that Horizon be active that therefore could be unsafe . I note that in addition to the work of the Criminal Cases Review Commission , the Post Office have adopt a more proactive approach to encourage appeal by conduct a review of case that have not yet be appeal . independent counsel instruct by the Post Office will review case to determine whether it already hold sufficient material to reach a view as to whether an individual ' s case could be concede , be an appeal to be bring . where the Post Office identify such case , it will write to the postmaster to notify they that it would not oppose any future appeal base on the information it currently hold and to set out what to do next to initiate an appeal . I strongly share the advisory board ' s desire to see more innocent postmaster receive compensation . the right hon . Gentleman set out the letter that the advisory board recently send to the Justice Secretary , and I completely understand the reluctance of postmaster to come forward to appeal their conviction . it must be very hard to trust authority when it be authority that have let they down for decade . some of the evidence give to the Williams inquiry about the way prosecution be handle by Post Office be horrify . there be obvious implication for the safety of prosecution , and the way disclosure seem to have be handle mean that defence lawyer be inevitably fight a lose battle . when a postmaster do get to the Court of Appeal , the onus be on they to show that their conviction be unsafe . I recognise all the difficulty that that burden of proof cause , especially with the passage of time lead to evidence be lose or destroy . it do not seem right that these people face an uphill battle to clear their name . last week , the advisory board release some significant recommendation , and its contribution be very welcome . I be sure the right hon . member for North Durham will be interested to note that I have already ask for legal advice on what more can be do in this area , so I want to look closely at the idea he have float and the idea of the advisory board . I know that his idea be slightly different from those of the advisory board : the advisory board be look at a blanket overturning of all conviction , whereas he seek to compensate everybody , regardless of whether they have a conviction . look at his new clause , I question who would be the decision - make body that would confirm whether there be clear , compelling and corroborated evidence , which normally a court would do , so there be more work to do before we can get to a position that he and I be both happy with . I want to look very closely at his idea and , as he rightly say , I be also talk to my right hon . friend the Lord Chancellor . I hear Flora Page , one of the claimant ’ barrister , acknowledge on the " Today " programme that overturn all the conviction automatically raise some constitutional issue , so this may not be easy . however , I be determined to make it easy for people to come forward and for conviction to be overturn . I honestly do not think there be anything between the position of the right hon . member for North Durham and my position in term of our desire to see justice do and compensation pay . that be what he be call for , and it be the Government ' s job to try to achieve it . I promise he that we shall do our good . I hope that in the light of that assurance and the other assurance I have give , he will be willing to withdraw the new clause . Mr Jones , you indicate that you do not wish to press the new clause to a vote . be that still your intention ? it be , give the assurance that the Minister have give . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the clause . clause , by leave , withdraw . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it be a great pleasure to be speak on Third Reading . as we have hear this afternoon , this small but important Bill will ensure that victim of the Horizon scandal , who have suffer over a period of more than 20 year , be not time out on their rightful compensation because of an arbitrary deadline . this Government have respond to the concern of campaigner and of the statutory inquiry under Sir Wyn Williams , which recommend this legislative action in its interim report in July . the Government will continue to ensure that GLO scheme member be compensate as quickly as possible , and our intention remain that this should be do by next August . however , this Bill will ensure that those entitle to compensation , who have wait too long for justice , be not rush or bounce into make a decision on final settlement , which should be full and fair . may I thank Opposition Members and the usual channel for enable swift consideration of the Bill ? I thank the House authority , parliamentary staff , the Clerks , the doorkeeper , and member of different party who have participate in today ' s debate . I also thank my official in the Department , who have work hard to prepare and deliver this Bill at pace while continue to run the GLO scheme . the Bill be a further demonstration of the action that the Government be take to address the wrong of the past and to demonstrate that we be firmly on the side of postmaster . I commend it to the House . I be pleased that the Bill will pass and make at least some effort in address this injustice — to the extent that that be possible . what the sub - postmaster have go through be horrific : as we have hear , they have suffer from year of uncertainty , year of not be listen to and year of not get the justice they deserve . the Government must act quickly to process claim and provide the compensation that people desperately need . even though the Bill will extend the compensation deadline , it be crucial that the Minister and his team act with urgency to ensure that this miscarriage of justice be address . I thank the official , the Clerks , you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and all those involve in get the Bill through . most importantly , I thank those who have campaign tirelessly — the sub - postmaster and all those who have support they in the legal system and beyond — to bring this issue to the fore . I also thank member of this House and the other House for all that they have do collectively to bring it to our attention and the Government ' s attention . we would not be here today if it be not for all those who campaign . let we be clear : we need to learn the lesson — I hope that the inquiry will help with that — to ensure that an injustice like this never happen again and that taxpayer ' money be not use to persecute people who should never have be pursue in such a way . I welcome the Bill ' s passage , which be another small step on a long road . I note what the Minister say about the response to the overturned conviction , which will be difficult , but , as he well know , we have be there before over the last few year . again , I thank he for his active involvement . I also thank the other member of the advisory board — Professor Chris Hodges , Professor Richard Moorhead and Lord Arbuthnot — for their continue work . we will no doubt be meet shortly , in the new year , to ensure that we achieve what we all want , with people get the compensation they deserve as well as the answer . I thank the Minister ' s official , and in particular Carl Creswell , Rob Brightwell and Eleri Wones . they may seem long - suffering give some of the expression they give to advisory board member when we raise more work and more difficult task for they to do , but without their support we could not have get to where we be today . official be sometimes not thank , but it be right to thank they for their work on this . again , what the Minister and all of we want be for the system to work and for it to go some way to help heal the great wrong do to the individual concern . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for chair our proceeding . I wish you , Mr Speaker , the Deputy Speakers and Members of the House all the good for Christmas and the new year . let we hope that in 2024 we can have a conclusion for all the compensation and , more importantly , Sir Wyn Williams ' s review , which will certainly make for interesting reading . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . I will just say a few word before we bring the parliamentary proceeding to a close for yet another year . on behalf of Mr Speaker and the entire Deputy Speaker team , I thank all those who work here in our Parliament for their service through the year . it do not matter in what capacity people work here ; we be all a team . without their support , we simply could not do the work that we do . a big thank you to all of you . I wish everybody — those who report on our proceeding and those who watch our proceeding diligently — a very merry Christmas and a happy new year . we do not know what next year will bring . I will carry on play the national lottery ; I will live in hope in 2024 , if nothing else , as this year be not particularly fruitful — none the less , I will carry on . Merry Christmas everybody . Petition - Local Government Funding and Food Voucher Provision I rise to present a petition on behalf of resident of the United Kingdom regard local government funding and food voucher provision . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom declare that many family be live in poverty and that the school holiday in particular be a difficult time for family who be struggle to afford to feed their child ; far that Coventry City Council have in recent year support these family through provision of food voucher over school holiday ; far that due to year of real term cut to local government budget , Coventry Council can no long afford to continue this provision of food voucher over the school holiday ; far that due to year of real term cut to local government budget , Coventry Council can no long afford to continue this provision . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to provide increase support for local council so that they can maintain service include cost - of - living support , and specifically for Coventry Council to be give adequate support to continue their provision of food voucher to family in need over the school holiday include Christmas . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002892 ] Transport Infrastructure : Cullompton Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) it be a pleasure to have secure the final debate of 2023 . I understand that I have until about half past seven , but give that I be the only thing stand between the Minister and sherry , mince pie and wrap gift by the fire , I probably will not take the full two hour and 20 minute . I have a request of the Minister this afternoon . I be ask this Government to deliver the people of Cullompton a gift that everyone there have be ask for for year : the Cullompton relief road and the railway station . Cullompton be a rural market town nestle in the Culm valley . there have be a town there since roman time — if you go out and knock on door in the area , people will tell you that they have be wait that long for the relief road and the railway station . the layout of the town would be familiar to anyone who have visit a small west country town : it have one major road , straddle by shop and house . the town centre be very much the beat heart of the community . it have a regular farmer market that take place once a month , every second Saturday . the economy of the town be build on a past involve wool , cloth and leather work , but in recent year it be very much a commuter community , with people make journey to Exeter in particular . early this year , I distribute a survey across Cullompton to ask resident about their transport priority . the response make it crystal clear that a railway station be much need , alongside a relief road and m5 junction upgrade . resident tell I on the doorstep that new housing must come with infrastructure first , and they be right . while in the Department for Transport , I work with the community and Conservative county councillor John Berry to secure a new railway station , after meeting with the Chancellor , the Transport Secretary and the Rail Minister . local resident in Cullompton have wait long enough . it be time for decisive action , not just warm word . do the hon . member need a hand to get a relief road , too ? my neighbour , the hon . member for Exmouth , be quite right that people in Cullompton be call for this , but they have have enough of survey . they have be consult until their pen have no ink leave in they . in 2018 , Devon County Council run a survey on the Cullompton town centre relief road . another survey , organise by Cullompton Community Association field , reveal that people be tear but would give up their community field for the sake of a relief road to stop the awful congestion in the centre of the town . now there be to be a further consultation , on both the relief road and junction 28 , on which progress also need to be make ; I will expand on that shortly . People in Cullompton be sick of be consult . they want to see action , and in particular they do not want to see survey that be simply a means of harvesting voter intention datum . huge volume of traffic pass through Cullompton every day . the town be home to roughly 9 , 000 people , but it be reckon that 37 , 000 a day commute into and out of Exeter , and many of they be from Cullompton . traffic often become back up and gridlocke , especially at busy time — early in the morning , or when child be pick up from school . I experience that at first hand recently when drive to one of my advice surgery in Cullompton . so bad be the congestion that I have to turn the engine off to stop it idle and release pollution . planning permission for the relief road be grant by Mid Devon District Council in January 2021 , not without cost to local amenity . I have play football with my child at the CCA field , and I know that member of the cricket and bowling club would love to have well pitch or green , but above all else they want certainty : they want to know what the future of the town will look like . what they do not want be an enormous amount of housing with no support infrastructure . the Minister and other Members will have hear about the appeal that have take place , but I should point out that Cullompton be a special case . there be plan for a north - west urban extension , and also for a garden village . as member will know , garden village be an initiative think up in 2017 , and the Culm garden village be set to add 5 , 000 new house to the town . if that be accompany by promise of a new GP centre , new community sport facility , new school , new bus link and new cricket pitch , those might offer some amelioration , but all that people in Cullompton be see be more house . we can not keep build house without the appropriate infrastructure to support they . our road can not cope with the volume of traffic that we be see . then there be question of the motorway . the m5 go past Cullompton , and junction 28 be one of the more congested motorway junction . in fact , it be dangerously congest . National Highways say recently that it be " unable to support development which introduce an unacceptable risk to highway safety , which include queue extend onto the m5 " . " development " be actually a euphemism for housing . what National Highways be really say be that we can not afford more housing in this town , because it will simply cause queue on the motorway — but the queue be not just on the motorway ; they be also through the town itself . all the motorist who get snarl up in the town , idle in traffic , know that they should be look to Westminster and Whitehall for the solution . Cullompton Town Council itself have say that it will " actively oppose " any residential development at east Cullompton until the town centre relief road be deliver and the capacity of junction 28 be increase . that will need to include safe pedestrian crossing over the M5 , the railway and the river . it be about time that Westminster and Whitehall take a look at that , because it be something that mp and candidate through the age have call for . certainly , in the Tiverton and Honiton by - election last year , the conservative candidate and I both call for it . as Cullompton ' s MP , I have raise the issue in Parliament on multiple occasion and urge Ministers to consider how the lack of a relief road be affect people in Cullompton . in the local election early this year , Cullompton go Liberal Democrat . I dare say that that be a sign of people ' s protest , and an indication that they be not prepared to put up with be overlook on this issue by the Conservative Government here in Westminster . we see the welcome Network North announcement this autumn , but the opportunity to fund the relief road be pass over in round 1 and 2 of the levelling - up fund and , although we do not know it at the time , in round 3 as well , when Devon do not get any levelling - up funding at all . with all the furore , anyone would think that the relief road be go to be enormously expensive , but in the context of the sort of figure that the Department for Transport be deal with , I suggest that £ 35 million be not enormous , particularly as £ 10 million of that have already be secure by Homes England . to get good value out of that , the Government will want to match - fund against that £ 10 million from the housing infrastructure fund , for which there be a deadline . it be think that the upgrade to junction 28 would cost a furth £ 34 million . that be a much more expensive proposition , but a lot of work have go into it , cost £ 800 , 000 so far . that have result in a robust and financially sound business case . the junction 28 proposal contain 25 option , such be the diligent work that go into it , and they have be whittle down to just three . the proposal have now go out to public consultation , with a deadline of 5 February . member will forgive the people of Cullompton for be tired of be consult on these matter ; they just want to see action . the case for the relief road and junction 28 be also health - relate , as it relate to traffic and congestion . this be why we also need a railway station at Cullompton . there be a recent announcement of funding to reopen Cullompton station . again , Network North be something of a re - announcement , but we be certainly glad to be part of the restore your railway announcement in 2020 . a strategic outline business case be develop last year and it will go to a full business case in 2024 , with the potential opening of Cullompton railway station in 2025 . I work alongside my co - chair , the hon . member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , as part of the metro board look at every stage of the development and at how Network Rail and Great Western Railway be do , perhaps give they a little bit of a nudge when necessary but absolutely support their excellent work . a railway station at Cullompton , along with the improvement to junction 28 and a relief road , will help with air pollution . the air quality management area in Cullompton have good monitoring , but I be afraid it reveal very poor outcome for people ' s health . it be estimate that the building of the relief road and the improvement to junction 28 would result in a reduction in the level of nitrogen dioxide in the air of between 69 % and 79 % . that would clearly improve people ' s health locally . there be also plan afoot for walk and cycling . I have have people work with I on cycle route in the area . Sustrans be consider link Tiverton and exeter through Cullompton , and there be a local cycling and walk infrastructure plan for connect Willand and Uffculme . together , all these initiative — the relief road , the railway station and the walking , cycling and wheeling route — will make a very friendly part of Devon into an environmentally friendly one . in closing , I give credit to Neil Parish , my predecessor , who work on this during his time as an MP , and to local Liberal Democrat campaigner who have be work with I on the operational detail . I hope that we can think of today ' s debate in the context of Christmas present . the word " present " in that context be usually associate with a gift , but I would like the Government to think of it in the context of the present tense — that be to say , I hope that we might see some action on Cullompton railway station , the relief road and junction 28 in the present and not at some unspecified point in the future . those would be gift for which I know that people in mid - Devon would be very grateful . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I seek an apology , as the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) do not name my constituency correctly in response to my intervention . he refer to I as the MP for Exmouth , but my constituency also include Sidmouth and I should be refer to as the MP for East Devon . he have do this politically in local newspaper and leaflet . I wish also to clarify that Devon be successful , to the tune of nearly £ 40 million , in the most recent round of level - up funding , just to correct the researcher or whoever write the hon . Gentleman ' s speech . I seek an apology for my constituency be name incorrectly , and a promise from the hon . Gentleman that he will not do so again . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) be not indicate that he wish to say anything far to that point of order , in which case it stand on the record . I thank both the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) and my hon . friend the Member for East Devon ( Simon Jupp ) for their contribution to this debate on transport infrastructure in Cullompton . it be an honour and a privilege to address this issue on behalf of the Department for Transport . I have a sense of d é j à vu all over again , as I respond to yesterday ' s Adjournment debate — and I will be respond to the first Adjournment debate in the new year on Monday 8 January . as the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton eloquently say , it be important to stress that transport infrastructure matter to everybody . I assure the House that I will not be use my full two hour and three minute either , but , much as you do , Mr Deputy Speaker , I start by wish everybody in the Chamber , all parliamentary staff , the Department for Transport team , those work in transport over the holiday period and my private office team of Juliette , Tessa , Aleena , Beth , Laura , Jack and Tom a happy Christmas . as the last Minister to address the House in 2023 , I want to say that democracy require work and sacrifice . our thank , in particular , go to his Majesty ' s constabulary , who keep we safe . we wish they a happy Christmas . we remember , sadly , the loss of pc Keith Palmer , who be kill in March 2017 , and we understand very clearly that these man and woman keep we and democracy safe . that should not be forget in any way . as a Transport Minister , it be not for I to comment on the quality of council ' bid to the levelling - up fund and the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , but I will attempt to address the point that relate to this debate . I will try my hard to address the widespread gentle criticism that there have not be investment in the south - west , and in Devon in particular . I will address Cullompton , but it would be remiss of I not to highlight the important work the Government be do to improve journey right across the south - west , and particularly in Devon . clearly , we remain committed to a long - term , multi - road programme of investment to improve road link to the region . by 2025 , we will have complete a 3 - mile upgrade between Sparkford and Ilchester . a combination of Government and local funding have enable the delivery of £ 5 . 7 million of support for the Tiverton eastern urban extension , provide access to a site of more than 1 , 500 dwelling and associated employment . additional transport infrastructure have be deliver at junction 27 of the m5 and at the A30 Honiton junction . the A361 north Devon link road scheme , which pass through the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , will also provide benefit to the area by improve connectivity to northern Devon . the £ 60 million provide by the Government will see full delivery of the scheme in 2024 . obviously , those project will deliver significant benefit for the travel public , but they will also boost the wide economy and support wide plan for growth . the hon . Gentleman raise the issue of rail . clearly , we have unlock further prosperity for the region . that include more than £ 50 million for the dartmoor line , which have provide hourly service between Okehampton and Exeter since reopen in 2021 . it be the first restore your railway scheme to be deliver , and local people have enjoy rail access to employment , education and leisure opportunity for the first time in almost 50 year . the Secretary of State open the new accessible station at Marsh Barton in Devon early this year , which come about with the help of £ 3 . 5 million of new station funding . that be another great example of a locally lead but nationally support rail project , and one that clearly give an economic boost to not only Devon , but the wide region . the Government have also invest more than £ 150 million to make the vital coastal rail link through Dawlish more resilient , help to deliver the reliable service that community deserve . as part of Network North , we have make funding available for the final phase of the south - west rail resilience programme . the hon . Gentleman mention Network North , and Devon will receive more than £ 208 million through the road resurface fund over the next 11 year , include an additional £ 6 . 66 million for the next two year , to combat pothole , which cause misery for driver . for context , in this year alone that equate to a 16 . 6 % uplift to the county council ' s 2023 pothole budget . I could go on about that in more detail , but I will move on to bus . clearly , the £ 2 bus fare that the Government have roll out across the country be exceptionally popular , and the bus fare cap have be extend until the end of December 2024 . the national bus strategy ask that all english local transport authority outside London publish a bus service improvement plan , set out local vision for the future of bus service , drive by what passenger and would - be passenger want . that be back by more than £ 1 billion of funding and the investment can be use to support and protect exist bus service that would otherwise be at risk . to support Devon County Council , we have allocate £ 17 . 4 million to deliver its BSIP , which will support service improvement such as increase frequency between Cullompton and Tiverton Parkway , a new service from Cullompton to Honiton railway station , and improvement to service 4 and 380 . in addition , we have provide support for active travel , with investment for driver and public transport user be assist by local cycling and walk infrastructure plan — lcwip . they allow local authority to take a long - term approach when develop cycling and walking network , help to identify improvement that can be make over a 10 - year period . Devon County Council be develop its Cullompton and Tiverton LCWIP . obviously , we await the plan for consideration . that joint project with Mid Devon District Council focus on a core area of Cullompton and consider strategic link south to Killerton and north - west to Willand , Tiverton Parkway and Tiverton . as I understand it , a consultation will be hold shortly to seek the community ' s view on the propose plan . identify improvement through an LCWIP will support Devon County Council to include Cullompton within its pipeline of scheme for future funding round and to build on the £ 7 million - worth of fund the council have be award in recent year to both develop active travel and promote its use . on multi - modal project , for transport infrastructure to make a real difference to people who choose to live , work and do business in the south - west , we can not operate in silos . we therefore take a holistic approach to connectivity . clearly , my hon . friend the Member for East Devon will be aware of the £ 15 . 7 million Destination Exmouth levelling - up scheme that deliver benefit for driver , cyclist , pedestrian and public transport user alike . the West Devon transport hub have also receive funding from a levelling - up fund scheme . the hon . Gentleman raise specific matter relate to Cullompton . I accept entirely that the town have grow . I know the area well , as I represent individual in a case at Taunton Crown court back in the distant dark age before the turn of the century and spend some time there . I accept entirely that it have grow considerably and that there be plan to grow it more . it have develop into a commuter town , particularly to Exeter , and with its close proximity to the m5 , I accept that there be high dependency on travel by car . however , it be also connect to Exeter by a bus service every 20 minute , the frequency of which , I understand , will be increase to every 15 minute in 2024 . the Government have a history of invest in the area . when the hon . Gentleman ' s predecessor , who he rightly laud as a strong constituency MP , be champion Tiverton and Honiton , a £ 1 . 8 million funding package between 2013 and 2016 deliver improvement to junction 28 of the M5 , which include widen and signal upgrading . I be also aware that a project be be undertake by Devon County Council to enhance the look and feel of the heritage town centre , include some minor transport - relate improvement , which be on track to be complete in 2024 . the hon . Gentleman raise the issue of the Cullompton relief road . with respect , it be not for the Government to do the job of the local council in the making of such an application . the Government be not the local planning authority in respect of any particular garden village . the council need to make the case and plan the infrastructure . I can not comment on the nature of the levelling - up bid or its ongoing progress , but clearly there be work be do on junction 28 . some £ 900 , 000 have be secure from Homes England to support the development of a strategic outline business case . although I be not the Rail Minister , I will address the issue of rail , which the hon . Gentleman raise . as I understand it , the railway station close in 1964 and the town will be potentially seven time the size it be then in the next couple of decade . through Network North — the Government ' s decision to cancel part of the hs2 project and redistribute fund across the country — I be delighted that £ 5 million be secure to reopen the station . fast train to London and Exeter will unlock great opportunity for the community , and I look forward to see the station in operation as early as 2025 . the hon . Gentleman make many other point . with respect , I can not answer for the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , but he seek support for various other matter . I would only make the point that it be for he and his local council to make the case for the infrastructure that he seek and to put that in an appropriate form , so that any funding can follow . I be not aware that he seek any specific meeting with my predecessor , but I be happy to take away the point he raise today . it be right and proper that the hon . Gentleman raise issue that matter to his local community on its behalf . I reassure the House that the Government be continue to provide record level of investment for road , rail , bus and active travel project . it be our mission to level up transport infrastructure and to unlock further growth for all corner of the UK , and I thank he for bring this matter to the House . for the last time in 2023 , I will put the question . question put and agree to . House adjourn .