Oral Answers to Questions Levelling up , Housing and Communities the Secretary of State be ask — Levelling - up funding : economically Deprived Communities if he will target levelling - up funding at the most economically deprive community . the Government have set clear and ambitious mission to end long - stand geographical inequality in the UK . in target levelling - up funding , we consider a range of factor , include levelling - up need . these metric draw on the extensive evidence base of what matter for level up , as set out in the levelling - up White Paper . I be interested in the Minister ' s comment about target . deprivation be make bad by bad policy decision . the bedroom tax significantly impact and bring an end to a multimillion - pound housing renovation scheme in the village of Horden in my constituency . can the Minister explain to my constituent why our levelling - up bid aim at regenerate Horden , which be rank in the bottom 10 % for the UK , be reject ? we select the bid base on strict criterion and the methodology be set out on gov . uk . I be sorry that the hon . Gentleman be disappoint that his constituency do not benefit . we fund a project in County Durham in round 1 of the levelling - up fund , and I be happy to work with he to see what more we could do to invest in County Durham . the household support fund have give a lifeline to council across the UK , include Bracknell Forest Council , and it be discretionary . will the Minister confirm whether that fund will be extend beyond this financial year ? I can not make spending commitment today , but I can say that my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for his constituent and I be happy to ensure that the relevant Minister be able to meet he to discuss the matter far . the Secretary of State be the deputy chair of the Tata Steel transition board , so if his Department be at all serious about level up , will he acknowledge just how devastating Tata Steel ' s announcement be for Port Talbot and for family , worker and community across south Wales ? why will the Minister not work with Business and Trade Ministers to look again with the company at a long , fair transition that protect our sovereign steelmaking capability and our community ? the hon . Lady know how important steel be to I ; my constituency be deeply affect when SSI close in 2015 . we have already provide £ 100 million of support , but I be happy to ensure that the relevant Minister meet she to discuss how we can provide further support . it be very positive that Stoke - on - Trent have be include as one of the levelling - up partnership scheme . do the Minister agree that it be vital that every part of Stoke - on - trent get levelling - up support so that all community , include those in my constituency and particularly the town of Longton , can benefit from the scheme ? the levelling - up partnership will be transformational for Stoke - on - Trent , build on the levelling - up investment we have already make there . I be pleased to meet my hon . friend last week to discuss his priority , include the town of Longton , and we hope to make further announcement about that in the come month . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be glad that my delay Avanti West Coast train get I here on time , with a sprint for I at the end . datum reveal by the Centre for Cities today show that after 14 year , town and city in every corner of our country have be level down , leave behind and leave out of pocket . on average , people be over £ 10 , 000 a year bad off as a result of the sluggish growth since 2010 . analysis of the country ' s large city and town reveal that every place be out of pocket , north and south , from former industrial town to major city . fourteen year after take power , do the Minister accept that the british people be bad off now than they be then ? I absolutely do not accept that . the right hon . Lady seem to forget the reality that we have have a financial crash , covid - 19 and the Scottish Government fail to support city like Aberdeen with the oil and gas industry . she can look at the evidence of what we be do through level up . we have invest more than £ 4 . 8 billion of levelling - up funding directly into community the length and breadth of the country , and we will continue to do that . the Minister say " look at the evidence " and I be look at the evidence — 14 year of a Conservative Government , elect on a promise to level up the country , which have leave work people bad off . in Manchester , the average household be over £ 8 , 000 a year out of pocket . down the road in Burnley , the loss amount to £ 28 , 000 . will they now listen to our proposal to reform planning , reinstate housing target and get Britain build again , or will the country have to suffer another final year of failure ? the Labour party have bankrupt Birmingham , and it would bankrupt Britain . we have make huge progress towards level up , include by roll out gigabit broadband , introduce educational investment in area , open new freeport , increase the national living wage , recruit more police officer , funding regeneration and community ownership , and devolve more power to local Mayors . we will continue to level up . I call the SNP spokesperson . the European Union have provide great funding support to economically deprive community in Scotland than the UK Government have with their mismanaged levelling - up fund . if Scotland be still part of the EU , we would have be entitle to a multibillion - pound share of the € 750 billion NextGenerationEU fund . why should scot be happy with the tiny sliver of Westminster levelling - up funding that we have be give , when Westminster have deny Scotland a share of the far great opportunity of EU development funding ? I completely reject the hon . Lady ' s assertion . we have invest £ 212 million in Scotland through the UK share prosperity fund so far , £ 465 million through the levelling - up fund and £ 18 . 3 million through the community renewal fund — I could go on , Mr Speaker . if the hon . Lady want to support constituency in Scotland , she should back our Bill later today . Social Rented Housing what step he be take to increase the provision of social rent housing . our £ 11 . 5 billion affordable home programme will deliver thousand of affordable home for rent and to buy right across the country . the levelling - up White Paper also commit we to increase the supply of social rent home , and a large number of the new home deliver through our affordable home programme will be for social rent . local authority have be strip of resource for the past 14 year , and even Conservative Members agree with that . do the Secretary of State recognise that local authority and housing association need certainty and stability over time , so that they have the confidence and security to invest in affordable social and council housing stock , rather than the Conservatives ' last - minute , unplanned change that wreak chaos and instability ? I certainly agree that housing association do fantastic work in provide home for social rent as well as share ownership home , and we work in partnership with they . we be aware of the many pressure they be under . the hon . Lady say that they need certainty and stability , but that be why it would be so damaging if there be a Labour Government with their £ 28 billion black hole , which would mean either more borrowing or tax increase , and high interest rate for those aspire to get on the housing ladder . that be why we should stick with the plan rather than go back to square one . in my constituency of Suffolk Coastal , Flagship be sell house to second - home owner . that be a scandal . it try to suggest that it be because it can not repair they economically , but it be not offer they , first of all , to the local council . there be restriction and covenant that could be put in place if these be council house , but they be not ; they be housing association home . I would love to meet my right hon . friend to discuss this matter far to make sure that the housing that be originally give to the housing association stay for local people . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for raise that issue . she represent one of the most beautiful constituency in the United Kingdom and do so with great skill . it be because it be such a beautiful constituency that demand for housing be so high . the proportion of second home in her constituency do create challenge for local people , which I would be more than happy to discuss with she at her convenience . I call the shadow Minister . rather than levy fine of £ 2 , 500 on the most vulnerable people sleep rough , as be propose in the Criminal Justice Bill , will the Minister commit to build a new generation of social housing ? the current level be pitiful and be an embarrassment , be they not , Secretary of State ? no , absolutely not . our record on build social home be significantly well than that of the last Labour Government . it be under our Administration that local authority have be give the chance to take 100 % of the receipt from right to buy and to reinvest they in social housing . it be this government , spend £ 11 . 5 billion through the affordable home programme , who be capable of deliver social home . as we be talk of billion of pound , the £ 28 billion black hole in the shadow Minister ' s budget would devastate our housing market . Regional Mayors : accountability what step his Department be take to ensure effective accountability of regional Mayors . what step his Department be take to ensure effective accountability of regional Mayors . the english devolution accountability framework be publish in March 2023 to make it easy to understand how Mayors , leader and institution with devolved power be hold to account . the framework , alongside the recently publish scrutiny protocol , will improve scrutiny and make clear the outcome and metric that mayor be deliver against . once again , I thank the Minister for the £ 48 million of levelling - up fund to upgrade the Penistone line , which will significantly improve the service and bring much - need improvement to Shepley , Stocksmoor and Denby Dale station . however , to achieve the ultimate goal of get train to run a half - hourly service , more investment be require , and that need to come through the West Yorkshire Mayor and Network North . do my hon . friend agree that the Mayor should make that a priority , and announce the extra investment to ensure a full upgrade of the Penistone line ? we be delighted to provisionally award Kirklees Council with £ 48 million from the levelling - up fund to upgrade the Penistone railway line . I thank my hon . friend and other , particularly conservative Members , for their dedicated support , and I look forward to see the benefit that the funding will bring to people travel between Huddersfield and Sheffield . as my hon . Friend say , Network North will see additional devolve funding provide to the West Yorkshire Mayor . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport and I will work with he and the Mayor to ensure that this new and unprecedented level of investment address local priority , and support town , city and rural area across West Yorkshire . in Nottinghamshire and derbyshire , we be look forward to elect our first Mayor in a few week ' time , especially with the £ 1 . 5 billion of funding for transport improvement . how do we ensure that that money be spend on improve our road link , fix pothole , improve railway line and so on , and be not lose in the creation of a costly administrative third tier of local government ? we have provide additional funding to council in the east midland to set up the new local authority , so any additional funding through Network North will not be consume by that . it be a fantastic opportunity to get my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) elect as the East Midlands Mayor . I be sure that he will focus on exactly the priority my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) mention . I call the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee . one of the well aspect of devolution so far , which might actually work , be the trailblazer project that have be roll out in the west midland and Greater Manchester . one of the key element of those project be have a single pot of money . I have repeatedly ask whether it be the intention to roll devolution deal out to the other combined authority , and I have be assure that it be . why , then , in the first iteration of what a new devolution deal might look like , have South Yorkshire , Merseyside and West Yorkshire be tell that a single pot of money will not be include in the devolution deal ? why be the Government backtrack on the commitment to give those area a full devolution deal , not a devolution - minus deal ? we have invite the combine authority area that the hon . gentleman mention to progress to level 4 devolution , which as he rightly say do not come with a single settlement . it be something that we be still consider , and when we see it in action in the west midland and Greater Manchester we will be able to assess its value for money and whether it be deliver for people there . I assure he that this be not devolution - minus ; we be give devolution - plus to community the length and breadth of the country . I be a big supporter of devolution to city region such as Greater Manchester , and I welcome a number of the Government ' s proposal to shift even more power and responsibility from this place to the combine authority and Mayor , but do the Minister understand the disappointment of Greater Manchester mps of all political persuasion in the proposal for great scrutiny by mp ? one question at meeting , with a supplementary at the discretion of the chair , just do not cut it . I hold a session for Greater Manchester MPs on the scrutiny protocol . I can not remember whether the hon . Gentleman be there , but I be happy to hold a further session with he . the scrutiny protocol be not yet in place ; it be a work in progress , which we be try to establish in partnership with mps . we want to know what would work well for mps in the scrutiny session . I call the shadow Minister . last week , the Secretary of State tell the Business and Trade Committee that he hope that the long - delay inquiry that he commission into Teesworks and the Tees Valley Mayor will be publish soon , and that he would not " pre - empt it " . the report be promise in July , then November , then December . it be now January . where be it ? the hon . Lady should know that the ministerial code mean I be recuse from matter relate to my constituency . however , I would simply say to she when she want to criticise Ben Houchen that he be one of the most effective mayor we have have . the employment rate in Teesside since Ben be elect have increase by 3 . 6 % , compare with the rest of the north - east , which only increase by 0 . 1 % , and the national average of 0 . 6 % . she should focus her attention on some of the Labour Mayors like the Labour Mayor of London Sadiq Khan , who be fail on housing , fail on crime and fail on the thing that matter to people . Voter ID : Election Turnout what recent assessment he have make of the impact of voter identification requirement on election turnout . we be pleased to see , in the May 2023 election , that the vast majority of voter in polling station be able to cast their vote successfully . that amount to 99 . 75 % of those seek to vote . fourteen thousand voter be turn away from polling station at the May 2023 local election for not have photo identification . local council have be cut to the bone , so they do not have the resource to ensure that everybody have photo ID . what will the Government do to ensure that nobody be disenfranchised when we get to the general election ? there be nothing novel about have voter ID . France , Germany , Austria and Canada all have it , and we have have it in Northern Ireland — part of the United Kingdom — for the past 20 year . I understand that in internal Labour party selection election , their member also have to produce voter ID . we have a full and comprehensive list of voter id , which council have be use very well . for those who wish to vote and do not have one of those form of ID — a tiny number — we also have the voter certificate , available free of charge , which allow they to vote . we want to see as many people as possible voting and , of course , we want to see they vote Conservative . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Government ' s voter ID requirement , which allow travel card for old people but not the young person ' s equivalent , be unfair at good , but the reality be that this be political opportunism . as have just be say , analysis by the Electoral Commission follow England ' s 2023 local election find that 14 , 000 people be unable to vote due to voter ID requirement . there be real concern , base on that datum , that there will be a potential impact in the forthcoming general election . voter at local election be often a small group of more politically informed people , whereas the large group of voter who wish to cast their vote at a general election may be less aware of the requirement . do the Minister agree with the word of his former Cabinet colleague , the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , that " party that try and gerrymander end up find their clever scheme come back to bite they , as … we find by insist on voter ID for election " ? I do not agree with that , and nor will I take any lesson on political opportunism from the SNP . I be tempt to say that I would WhatsApp my answer to the hon . Lady , but she would probably delete it before she read it . a lot will depend on whether the identification have the relevant hologram . I also point out to the hon . Lady that — [ interruption . ] she chunter from a sedentary position without want to listen to the answer , but of the 14 , 000 who do not have the right identification , 7 , 000 come back . [ Official Report , 23 January 2024 , Vol . 744 , c . 4MC . ] Council Budget deficit what assessment he have make of the cause of council budget deficit . what assessment he have make of the cause of council budget deficit . the Department work closely with the local government sector and other Departments to understand specific demand and cost pressure . the provisional local government finance settlement for 2024 - 25 make available over £ 64 billion — an increase in core spending power of almost £ 4 billion or 6 . 5 % in cash term . we stand behind council up and down the country to deliver the service that their community look for . it be recently reveal that Devon County Council be use its broadband clawback money to close its deficit . that £ 7 . 8 million be intend for improve broadband across rural area . countryside connectivity be key to boost business so that they can pay their taxis , so what do the Minister plan for next year , when Devon County Council ' s finance minister put his hand down the back of the sofa , only to find he have spend the million intend for broadband on pay day - to - day direct debit ? if the money from that Department be ring - fence , it be not at the discretion of the county councillor where they use it ; they have to use it for that purpose . I would take the hon . Gentleman ' s concern a little more seriously if he have take part in the parliamentary engagement , as 97 colleague across the House do , include the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , or attend the Westminster Hall debate about Mid Devon Council funding , secure by my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater and West Somerset ( Mr Liddell - Grainger ) . I appreciate the time that the Minister take to answer my question at the drop - in session . we will not cut NHS waiting time without good , well - resource social care . my liberal Democrat council colleague in Bath be on track to bring social care back in - house , which mean well care that be well deliver locally and long - term saving . however , even Bath & North East Somerset Council , as he know and as I have already point out , be under severe financial strain . will he therefore commit to extra funding to allow it to deliver the vital social care that my constituent so desperately need ? adult social care be a demand on all upper - tier authority . I commend BANES Council on the work it be do ; that be precisely the demonstration of flexibility and innovation in local government that we look for to deliver quality service in a cost - efficient way , and it deserve our approbation for that . with the Department of Health and Social Care , we keep under review precisely those policy relate to adult social care , to make sure that those who be most in need receive the service that they need in a timely fashion . would the Minister like to put on record that he share my thank to Councillor Lezley Picton , the leader of Shropshire Council , who have do a fantastic job despite the challenge in try to get down the deficit there ? the council have find significant efficiency saving , but there be still more to do . ahead of the local government finance settlement announcement , could the Minister look at the rural service delivery grant and see what more can be do for large rural county such as Shropshire , which he will know be the large landlocked county in England ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and for the work that Councillor Picton do as the leader of his council . he be absolutely right to point to the continue importance of innovation , change and reform to ensure value for money — that be key — and to highlight the importance of the rural service delivery grant . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and I remain committed to that and we hope to be able to make that announcement in due course . rural council face a disproportionate triple whammy from the rise cost of energy due to the Ukraine war , with rural council and rural public service have to pay high heating , energy and labour cost . could I have a meeting with my hon . friend to talk about the fair funding formula , to make sure that rural council be properly fund in this next settlement ? as a rural Member of Parliament , I be tempt to tell my hon . friend that he will be preach to the choir , but of course I be happy to meet he . he point to the challenge that rural council face in deliver service in area that be wide in geography and sparse in population . I call the shadow Minister . the reality be that more and more council be be push to the financial brink . it stand as a fact that more council issue bankruptcy notice last year than in the previous 30 year combine . those council be conservative , liberal Democrat and no overall control , but the one thing they have in common be the Conservative Government in Downing Street . the Local Government Association report that council face an immediate £ 2 . 6 billion funding gap . now that the deadline have pass , can the Minister confirm how many council have apply for exceptional financial support , and whether pressure in adult social care , child ' s service and homelessness will be fully meet in the financial settlement ? it be not policy for we to comment individually on council that be seek advice from or engagement with official , but I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question , because it give I the opportunity to put on record that my Department and I stand ready to engage with all those council who wish to discuss their financial circumstance . we want to make sure that we have a well - fund , professional local government sector , deliver for those people in our community who look to they for the service that they require for their daily life . Public Green Spaces what step he be take to protect public green space . through the levelling up park fund , taxpayer be provide more than £ 9 million to create new green space or significantly refurbish exist one . the Department - own green flag award scheme , which be currently operate under licence by keep Britain Tidy , set the national standard for public green space and encourage local authority to ensure that park and green space be welcome , safe and well maintain . behind the closed door of the town hall , Labour - control Erewash Borough Council be plot to sell off large swathe of green open space , include the former Pewit golf course in Ilkeston , which have previously be designate as a nature reserve . will my hon . friend take step to prevent local authority from sell public land without first carry out full public consultation , and will he join I on a visit to the Pewit site to discuss how we might save it from the hand of developer ? by law , local authority be require to publish a notice and advertise it before dispose of any open space . this be exactly why it be so important that my hon . friend be and continue to be the MP for Erewash . she can call out all the disaster of the Labour Erewash Borough Council which , as a fellow Derbyshire MP , I see derbyshire Labour do regularly all across my county . it have the wrong priority and outcome , and it make the wrong decision . the Minister might know that we have wonderful public green space in our country — many of they be around London and in West Yorkshire — but be he aware that the decline of education department in many local authority owe to the policy of successive conservative Governments mean that today the ability to organise school trip to green space be minimal ? could we have a policy that allow all our child , of whatever background , to go to and enjoy those beautiful green space ? I call the Minister . because if they can not get there to visit they , they can not love they . order . Mr Sheerman , please do not take advantage of the Chair . I be try to bring the Minister in , and I have to get many other in . you be important , but so be other people . the hon . Gentleman should look at the conservative party ' s record on education in over 40 year in government . there have be substantial improvement in education and teaching , and our child be well readie for the challenge ahead as a result . local Authorities : four - day week what assessment he have make of the potential merit of a four - day working week for local authority employee . the Government have be crystal clear that we do not support any attempt from local authority to implement part - time work for full - time pay . remove capacity to deliver service to resident be not acceptable . the Government have take step to deter council from operate such practice , and we will take further step if necessary . the Minister only early extoll the virtue of devolution . in fact , page 29 of the 2019 Tory manifesto say that the " ambition be for full devolution across England , build on the successful devolution of power to city region mayor " and other . how do that laudable aim fit with the Government ' s shocking attempt , through threat and bully tactic , to strangle the ability of local council such as South Cambridgeshire District Council to trial a four - day week and other money - save initiative ? if the hon . Gentleman can construct an argument for hard - work family across the country — many of whom will be work two or three job to keep a roof over their head — that five day ' pay and benefit be commensurate with four day ' work a week , I would be interested in hear it . I invite he in all seriousness to consider the impact on the public ' s perception of the public sector if it be give out that we can afford to work four day a week but still expect and receive five day ' pay . first - time buyer what step he be take to help first - time buyer . get on the property ladder be everything that be important about be a conservative . the Government have a range of scheme available to first - time buyer , include the first home scheme , share ownership and right to buy . so far , nearly 900 , 000 people have be help on to the property ladder by this Government . do the Minister agree that while Labour member actively block the building of new home for first - time buyer , the Conservative Government have increase the number to a 20 - year high and help almost 1 million household through government - back scheme ? I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend . I hope he hear some of the chunter of " come on ! " from the Opposition Benches when he raise the absolutely correct point that , when the opportunity be there for Labour Members , they flub it . they have block 100 , 000 house that could be use for first - time buyer , people who need help , and the most vulnerable . it be all down to the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) . I thank the Minister for that answer . what discussion have he have with large UK bank , such as Danske Bank in Northern Ireland , to ensure mortgage be make as accessible as possible for first - time buyer , encourage they to buy , not rent , when they have a steady income ? far , be there any plan to reintroduce the help to buy ISA ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his important question . get people on the housing ladder be absolutely vital : that be why we introduce the mortgage guarantee scheme , which extend the number of mortgage that be on the market for those people who need it , include first - time buyer . I be happy to talk separately to the hon . Gentleman about other idea that he may have . Leasehold what step he be take to reform the leasehold system . right now , the Government be take action with the progression of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill through this place , which deliver on the Government ' s manifesto commitment on leasehold reform . leaseholder in Leazes Park in Newcastle be have their life ruin because their supposedly charitable freeholder , the St Mary Magdalene and Holy Jesus Trust , refuse to allow they to extend or buy their leasehold . across the constituency , in a cost of living crisis , my constituent face exorbitant management fee , high cost for fire safety and ever - increase ground rent . can the Minister tell my constituent why , when the Labour party be commit to comprehensive and fundamental reform of the leasehold system as set out by the Law Commission , he have bring forward a leasehold reform Bill that do not actually reform their leasehold ? the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill , which be go through Parliament at the moment — go through in a very constructive way so far , with contribution from member of all party , presumably because they recognise the value of the clause it contain — will make substantive change for those who have leasehold at the current time . we look forward to its continued progress through the House . I call the Father of the House . there will be agreement on both side of the House that reform be need . for my part , I welcome the introduction of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill to get people on to modern leasehold and commonhold , and through the Minister , I invite those who be suffer — the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central ( Chi Onwurah ) explain that her constituent be suffer — to put their point through mps to the Department , so that when amendment to the Bill be table , as many as possible can be discuss and accept . I be grateful to my hon . friend . as I and the Secretary of State have say , we be keen to improve the Bill where we can , but it be a substantial Bill that will make substantial change for people who have need reform of leasehold for a long time . local Government Transparency what step he be take to promote transparency in local government . step be always be take to improve transparency . the local government accountability framework and transparency code set standard for transparency ; it mandate the publication of certain information , such as spend . the Office for Local Government will promote transparency far by provide authoritative local government performance datum on the local authority datum explorer . be a cabinet member in a local council should require the high level of transparency . however , I fear that be not always the case when relevant previous criminal and custodial conviction remain hidden . what advice would my hon . friend give council leader about how to ensure cabinet member be fully transparent about their previous conviction where relevant to their role as a cabinet member ? my hon . friend raise an important question . at the time of appointment , all council leader should be aware of exist disqualification criterion bar councillor who have be give a custodial sentence of three month or more , or who be register sex offender . if the council leader be not aware , those people who be due to be appoint should make their group leader aware of those circumstance . they have a legal obligation to declare as election candidate — this be an important issue . the nolan principle be there for a reason : to maintain transparency and standard . if my hon . friend wish to write to I with the detail of the case he have mention , I would be happy to receive his submission . private Rented Sector what step he be take to reform the private rent sector . the Renters ( Reform ) Bill will soon enter its Report stage in the House of Commons . that Bill abolishe section 21 eviction , move the sector to a system of periodic tenancy and introduce a private rent sector property portal and ombudsman , improve the system for responsible tenant and good - faith landlord . in my casework , I have see an alarming rise in the number of no - fault eviction . this be lead to family be move a long way from my borough , with child have to travel ten of mile to get to school every day . the Government have say that they be go to remove section 21 eviction , but they have not give the criterion under which they be go to do so , and it seem that this be go to be in the hand of the Minister . opposition Front Benchers have offer to work with the Government to eradicate section 21 eviction . the Government say they would do it four year ago . accord to the Government ' s own figure , 80 , 000 family have be threaten with no - fault eviction . when be the Government go to co - operate and get this resolve ? that be exactly why we be bring forward the Renters ( Reform ) Bill . however , as we set out on Second Reading and in Committee , we will not be able to do that until the court system be able to cope with the increase number of case . we hear evidence in Committee about the huge increase in case that we will find . we be introduce these reform in a phase way so that court and the sector have time to adjust . [ interruption . ] I would say to the hon . Gentleman , and to the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , who be chuntere from a sedentary position , that it serve no one to leave tenant or landlord in limbo in a court system that be not function properly . Chelmsford be a brilliant city and lot of people want to go there to live , but that do mean there be huge demand for property , especially affordable property , both to buy and to rent . at the moment , when we build new house the local authority can put a quota of affordable home on those new build property , but they can not do that when large office block be convert into flat . will my hon . friend arrange for I to meet the Housing Minister , so that I can discuss how to make progress with my private Member ' s Bill on affordable housing in conversion of commercial to residential property ? I will ensure that the Housing Minister be able to meet my right hon . friend . housing Developers : information on Associated Infrastructure what assessment he have make of the reliability of information on associated infrastructure provide to buyer by housing developer . it be absolutely vital that buyer have correct , up - to - date and accurate material information on their purchase before they make a decision to buy a home . I be very grateful to my hon . friend the Minister . he will know that promotional document put out by major house builder such as Barratt Homes , Taylor Wimpey , David Wilson Homes and so on to prospective purchaser on large - scale housing estate commit absolutely to the building of health infrastructure , which very often do not turn up . just allocate a piece of land simply be not good enough . can he please make sure that we do not mislead purchaser and that , frankly , the doctor ' surgery be the first building to be build on many of these new estate ? my hon . friend make a hugely important point , and I be grateful for the time he have spend with I in my first couple of month in the job to highlight this issue , to articulate the problem and to show the real - life example of where there be an issue . he be such a good champion of this issue for his constituency . a substantial amount of infrastructure have be build all across the country , but where there be gap it be hugely frustrating , and we will continue to work with assiduous member such as my hon . friend to try to close they . a recent freedom of information request reveal that only a third of the housing infrastructure fund have actually be spend , which leave £ 2 . 9 billion unspent . the National Audit Office say that successful delivery of the housing infrastructure fund " appear to be unachievable " , so what be go to happen to that £ 2 . 9 billion ? the housing infrastructure fund continue to transform very difficult , challenging and unviable area of the country . it be be spend at pace , and it will continue to be so . we expect it to be able to transform more part of the country over the year ahead . National Planning Policy Framework : Neighbourhood planning what assessment he have make of the role of neighbourhood planning in the national planning policy framework . the Government recognise the time and commitment that community put into neighbourhood plan . our recent update to the national planning policy framework mean that neighbourhood plan meet their identify housing requirement be now well protect from speculative development , include through the additional reform come in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 . my Lib Dem - run borough council still do not have an up - to - date local plan . every day that pass mean that we be open to speculative housing development without the right infrastructure such as GP practice and road and those kind of thing . my community be fantastic at produce neighbourhood plan , but they be ride over roughshod in place such as Desford , where housing have be put in where the community do not want it . will the Minister look at increase the priority give to neighbourhood plan when community and local planning authority do not have an up - to - date local plan ? it be hugely frustrating when local plan be not in place . as my hon . Friend indicate , in his area the Lib Dem council have fail to do that , which be let resident down . there have be change as a result of the national planning policy framework give additional protection through neighbourhood plan , but district council and those with planning responsibility need to get their plan in place . permit Development : Urban Homes if he will make an assessment of the potential merit of a permit development right for urban homeowner to increase their property to four storey where that comply with the local authority ' s design code . we have introduce national permit development right to allow a wide range of exist residential and commercial building to extend upwards by up to two additional storey . we have also recently consult on proposal to apply local design code to those right and further announcement will be make in due course . may I urge the Minister to go far and fast on this ? the permit development right would create beautiful urban townscape and unleash the big wave of housebuilde in half a century , which would in turn cut housing cost to rent or buy , be green by allow people to live within bicycle or walk distance from work and protect rural landscape from urban sprawl and , by increase the development potential of almost any urban building , be the big single act of wealth creation in decade . what ' s to dislike ? there be absolutely nothing to dislike , as my hon . Friend indicate , about speed up the planning system to ensure we get the house we so badly need . as I know my hon . friend will appreciate , however , there be always a balance to be strike : we must ensure that we take local people with we , but we be commit to build more house , and do so in the right place . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . early this month we launch the consultation on Awaab ' s law , which insist upon time limit for repair in the social rent sector . in the shaping of this law and many other initiative and intervention to help people in social housing , the example of Tony Lloyd , the late Member for Rochdale , be in all our mind and heart . Awaab be one of his constituent , and Tony Lloyd could not have be kind or more supportive of the effort of my Department and other to see justice for Awaab ' s family . the household support fund have support 330 , 000 household in Liverpool since its introduction . the focus need to shift from crisis support to prevention but in the short term the demand for local welfare be rise . like many other council , Liverpool City Council say the household support fund will need to continue beyond March 2024 to keep resident well support to stay in and enter work and prevent an escalate crisis , reduce pressure on public service include local authority . what representation have the Minister make to the Treasury and the Department for Work and Pensions to ensure the continuation of the fund after March ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : the fund have help many community in need , particularly in Liverpool . he and other Liverpool mps have be assiduous in make the case for its continuation and I have pass that on to colleague . leicester - shire MPs have plenty of time last week with two Ministers from the Department — the levelling - up Minister and the local government Minister — to discuss the funding and structure of our county council . to follow up , will the Minister for local government commit to meet the county council leadership to ensure that the funding and the formula that go with it be improve for the future ? I thank my hon . friend for his positive engagement , alongside that of my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) and my hon . friend the Members for Loughborough ( Jane Hunt ) and for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) , who come to see I to discuss this issue last week . I would of course be delighted to meet the leadership of Leicestershire County Council with my hon . friend the Member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) and his colleague . through the good office of our hon . friend the Member for South Leicestershire , I meet informally with Councillor Louise Richardson , the cabinet lead on health , last week . I call the shadow spokesperson . first , Mr Speaker , may I echo the comment make by the Secretary of State in relation to the late Tony Lloyd , who will be greatly miss in all part of the House ? as we have hear from the shadow Secretary of State , the whole country have be level down since 2010 at an average rate of £ 10 , 200 per person . that be a damn indictment of this government , but with about 1 , 300 project fund by the future high street fund , the town deal and level - up fund , that decline should , in theory , not have happen . how many of those project have now be complete and what evidence do the Department have that those project have contribute to reduce regional inequality ? the evidence of the reduction in regional inequality be perhaps most marked in Teesside and the Tees valley where the Conservative Mayor Ben Houchen have be responsible for oversee an economic renaissance , renew foreign direct investment , and improvement in public health and education . the message be clear : if we want level up to work , we need to elect conservative mayor in May . the Minister will be aware that labour - run Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council have recently give the go - ahead for developer to build hundred of new home at Highfield Park in Maltby on land that have always be greenfield . what he might not be aware of be that the developer have give thousand of pound to the local Labour party , which none of the councillor vote on the issue declare . what can he do to ensure that such greenfield site be not wantonly give over to developer ? I be sorry to hear about the challenge that my hon . friend have see in Rother Valley . it be one reason that more conservative councillor need to be elect on to Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council for the future . we be absolutely aware that there be challenge . we need to build more house and in the right place , and the good way to do that be by get a local plan in place , and by the council that be responsible for that engage properly with their community about it . my local authority be bend over backwards to try to build social housing and be commit to build 2 , 000 new home , yet the Government be still stand in the way by place restriction on reinveste right - to - buy money in build social housing . why will the Government not assist local authority to build those house ? we have have 14 , 000 few home a year since 2010 . do the Minister accept that that be a disgraceful record for the Government ? we always stand ready to work with local authority of whatever stripe or colour to ensure the delivery of new home . as the hon . member know , London be the region of the United Kingdom that have perform worst against its housing target . principally , that be down to the Mayor , not to individual local authority , so I look forward to talk to he about what more we can do together . there be a powerful community campaign to stop an asphalt plant be build in countryside in my constituency . the application have drag on for year . will the Minister look at how applicant and council can be compel to provide and process information in a more timely manner , so that such application do not blight the life of local people for so long ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that we need decision at the early possible opportunity . sometimes that be not possible , but it be important that thing be do as quickly as possible . that be one reason that we announce a few week ago that we be monitor local authority ’ planning application performance , so that can see where they be , and be not , do the right thing . lease - holder at Orchard House in my constituency be in an unsafe building with known defect . they have be issue with a remediation order , but the freeholder be simply not co - operate . do this not suggest that the feudal freehold system should be abolish for flat , as well as for house ? what assurance can the Minister give my constituent that they will get help from somewhere ? it suggest to I that the freeholder be do the wrong thing , and where the freeholder be do the wrong thing , they need to be hold to account through the court system , as they be , and they will eventually be force to do the right thing . on the specific , I be happy to talk to the hon . Lady , if that would be helpful . we have £ 72 million for Bishop Auckland through the levelling - up fund , the future high street fund and the town fund , £ 20 million for Spennymoor through the long - term plan for town and a £ 1 . 4 billion investment fund through the north - east devolution deal . it really be the Conservatives who deliver for the north - east , be it not ? I completely agree with my hon . friend , and I thank she for her work in this role in the Department and all that she have do to help level up in her constituency . there be 14 , 000 family wait on Liverpool ' s housing register . we be face a housing and homelessness crisis , and the cost of provide temporary accommodation have go from £ 250 , 000 to £ 19 million in the past three year . the leader of the council have write to the Secretary of State twice . when will the Secretary of State wake up to this emergency ? I appreciate the advocacy of Liverpool mp on behalf of those in temporary accommodation , and I appreciate the scale and nature of the problem . I have be work with the Mayor of Liverpool city region and other to look at a strategic future advisory panel report that we believe will unlock not just additional housing , but additional investment in Liverpool and the Liverpool city region . I look forward to discuss that with the hon . Member and , indeed , the new leader of Liverpool City Council . over the weekend , the Express run a story about Ferryhill in my Sedgefield constituency be a dumping ground for rapist and paedophile . my constituent believe that have be drive by housing group advertising in the south to people that they have house in place such as Ferryhill where no check be require . can the Minister meet I to discuss how we can stop the degeneration of place such as Ferryhill ? I be very sorry to hear of my hon . friend ' s concern . I will meet he and discuss how our antisocial behaviour action plan can help in Ferryhill . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . today , more than 40 of the Government ' s own mp have write to the Prime Minister with their concern about the financial situation face council and the need for emergency funding . the Local Government Association say that there be likely to be a £ 4 billion funding gap over the next two year . if there be to be these council shortfall and many people will not see the essential service they rely on , what will the Secretary of State do to ensure that people still have access to the vital service they so desperately need ? I think that of the 40 mp who write that letter , one be the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) and one be the hon . member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) , so I look forward to their join our rank as part of the swell tide of conservative support that I see across the country . on the specific of the hon . member ' s point , we have be listen carefully to colleague in local government and will respond in due course . local council tax payer in Warrington quite rightly expect high level of governance and transparency when councillor be use public money to invest in commercial business , which carry a high level of risk . do the Minister agree that the decision by Labour - run Warrington Borough Council to reduce the number of opposition councillor on its audit committee fly in the face of good governance and that question need to be ask about how it be manage its £ 1 . 8 billion debt ? I recognise the concern regard Warrington ' s debt . of course , the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 provide new power for the Government to step in and take action to protect the public purse . my experience be that where important scrutiny chairmanship role be hold by opposition party , those who take the decision take well decision , and the scrutiny be much well as a result . do the Secretary of State think it be acceptable that leaseholder of Lee Court in my constituency should be without heating and hot water , as well as experience multiple problem in the communal area ? if he do not think that be acceptable , how and when will he strengthen the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill to stop these injustice from happen ? I absolutely accept that , and I believe that I write recently to Lewisham council to draw attention to its responsibility in the area . on Metro Mayors , may I draw my right hon . friend ' s attention to the decision of Ben Houchen to deliver the £ 250 million Darlington northern link road use Network North fund ? do he agree that that be a fantastic example of Ben deliver for Darlington and the Tees Valley ? it be just another example of Ben Houchen as Metro Mayor use all the power at his disposal and the resource release by this Conservative Government to ensure that , at last , Teesside and the Tees Valley get the investment it need . one reason he attract so much criticism from the Labour party be that he be a Tory who deliver for Teesside in a way that no one have ever deliver before . come on , Jim . will the Minister commit to far levelling - up funding for the devolved institution for local sport club across Northern Ireland , instead of fund Casement Park to the detriment of every other sport look for funding in Northern Ireland , so that all tradition and all side of the community can benefit from the funding ? I take the hon . Gentleman ' s point seriously . it be important that we support grassroots sport and other civil society organisation in Northern Ireland . we be work hard to try to ensure that we can do that with our partner in a restore executive . in the meantime , I should say that I be grateful to Ulster rugby for end its relationship with Kingspan , which mean that we can unlock additional funding for grassroot rugby across Northern Ireland . while I be deeply disappointed that Stoke - on - Trent Labour refuse to make the necessary term and condition change to help save Stoke - on - Trent City Council funding , there be a united view across the political divide in Stoke - on - Trent that the legacy in child ' s social care be cause huge financial strain on the local authority . will the Secretary of State do everything he can to work with Councillor Jane Ashworth to ensure that that gap be fund and those child — the most vulnerable in our society — be protect ? absolutely . I hope that the House will note that my hon . friend , who fight incredibly hard for his principle and for Stoke - on - Trent , be take a typically statesmanlike approach in put his constituent first . come the next general election , people should remember that he be someone whose big heart reflect their good value . road safety be put at risk by road that be not adopt , because speed limit can not be enforce and often they do not get grit . there be serious worry that people will get injure . what more can the Department do to ensure that key service road on big , new housing estate get adopt more quickly ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we need to ensure that developer live up to their responsibility to provide appropriate infrastructure . it have be the case that a number of fleecehold — for want of a well word — development have unadopte road , where child be at risk . Speaker ' s Statement before we proceed to the next business , I would like to make a brief statement . the link between member of Parliament and our constituent be special and fundamental to the democratic life of the country . as we enter the general election year , many hon . member be expect boundary change . some will contemplate stand for constituency that they do not currently represent . I have receive a number of representation from hon . member from all part of the House about colleague involve themselves in their constituency . I think it would be helpful to remind the House of some important rule and convention regard constituency representation . first , member usually deal with individual case relate only to their own constituency . when a member be contact by someone seek assistance who be not she or his own constituent , the normal expectation be that the person should be refer to the relevant constituency Member . secondly , when a Member intend to visit another constituency other than in a private capacity , they should make every reasonable effort to inform the Member represent that constituency before they do so . that apply equally to ministerial visit . the ministerial code state that the minister intend to make an official visit in the United Kingdom must inform , in advance and in good time , the mp whose constituency be to be include in the visit . I should add that , although the ministerial code do not apply to shadow Ministers , they should adhere to the same protocol if visit constituency . thirdly , when issue relate to another constituency be raise in the House , the Member concern should , where possible and when time permit , inform the other member involve in advance . that apply equally to the tabling of write question . hon . member have a duty to look after the constituent who elect they to this place . boundary change do not take effect until the next election . we must observe the convention of not involve ourselves with another Member ' s constituency until that time . more generally , I understand that the political temperature will rise as we get close to an election . I urge all hon . member to continue to treat each other with courtesy and respect in the remain month of this Parliament . the election seem to have start a little too early . Funded Childcare ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Education if she will make a statement on her Department ' s plan to roll out 15 hour of fund childcare to 2 - year - old in work family from April 2024 . the Government be roll out the single large expansion in childcare in english history . by September 2025 , we will provide work parent with 30 hour of free childcare a week from when their child be nine month old , all the way until they start school . by 2027 - 28 , this Government expect to spend in excess of £ 8 billion every year on free hour in early education — double the amount we be currently spend . we be introduce that in phase . from April , eligible work parent will be able to access the first 15 hour of free childcare each week for their two - year - old . in September , they will be able to access the first 15 hour each week for nine - month - old . a year later in September 2025 , they will be able to access the full 30 hour for all eligible child age nine month upwards . we want parent to be able to access the new offer as soon as they can . deliver that ambition include increase childcare funding rate , with an additional £ 204 million in this financial year and an additional £ 400 million in the come financial year . we be provide grant to help new childminder enter the sector and , to make it easy for the sector , make change to the early year foundation stage that it have ask we to make . we hear every day from family how significant this policy will be for their finance . once the roll - out be complete , eligible family will save up to £ 6 , 500 per year . it will help parent to return to work or increase their hour , and ten of thousand of parent have already successfully apply for their code , ready to take up their place in April . parent should visit childcarechoice . gov . uk to see the full range of support they be entitle to . regard tax - free childcare , we will be issue letter with temporary code to any parent whose tax - free childcare reconfirmation date fall on or after 15 February and before 1 April . that will ensure that any eligible parent who need a code to confirm their fund childcare place with their provider will have one , and that no parent should worry that they will lose out . I welcome this opportunity to correct some misleading story about the childcare roll - out , and to hear from the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) about whether she support our childcare policy , and , if not , what her childcare policy would be . I be sure member on the Labour Benches would like to know as much as we would . in which case , it would have be good to have come forward with a statement , rather than I grant an urgent question . so , please bear that in mind before you make a comment . thank you , Mr Speaker , and thank you for grant the urgent question . crumble school building , botched school budget and now the hat trick : a childcare pledge in tatter because of conservative bungling . it be not Ministers , but family across the country pay the price for Tory incompetence . how do we get here ? a litany of failure : a pledge without a plan and a Department without a grip , lead by Ministers without a clue ; family without the certainty of a childcare place they be promise by the Chancellor last March ; and meanwhile the Department be face a furth £ 120 million shortfall because of yet another miscalculation . how be they go to make up that shortfall ? family be face a rolling wave of conservative chaos which wreck all before it : for provider it be an utter fiasco , where their income after April be still a state secret . when will provider be tell about their funding rate ? how many family do the Minister estimate will now not be able to access new hour because of this shamble ? the Prime Minister ' s official spokesman this morning say : " we be confident that the provision and capability be there , we be confident in the strength of the marketplace . " but the market be tell they that their plan be simply not deliverable . the chief executive of the Early Years Alliance say that sign up to the new system be " financial suicide " for provider . Mr Speaker , this be not a market , it be an almighty mess and minister know it . government source be brief the paper that there will be " parent that just don ' t get their place . " let I explain to Ministers in word of one syllable . that be no good . that will not work . they must do more . they need to fix it . if provider can not price place now , how on earth can they be expect to offer more in September ? can Ministers guarantee to parent now that the roll - out will be deliver on time , yes or no ? it need not be this way . Sir David Bell be lead labour ' s early year review to ensure that childcare be about life chance for child , as well as work choice for parent . up and down this country family be feed up with this Government , their broken promise and their incompetence . it be time for a general election to end this Tory shamble once and for all . I will try to pick out the question from the bluster . on the £ 120 million , this be a specific issue that affect September 2024 onwards , where we allocate to local authority 22 week of funding because that be the period from September to March . some then say that they pay 26 week to their provider , so we have that money in order that they can provide 26 week of funding where that be what they do . on the funding rate , we announce the funding rate for three and four - year - old in April last year , and for two - year - old in November . [ Official Report , 30 January 2024 , Vol . 744 , c . 9mc . ] give that local authority have to pass on 95 % of the money that we give they , provider have a pretty good idea of what they will receive . however , while the vast majority of authority will confirm their rate in the come week , a small number leave it until 31 March . we be encourage they not to do that , and to confirm their rate as early as possible in the same way as the other . the hon . Lady ask how many family would not be able to access the childcare offer as a result of those two issue . the answer be none . as she know , we have increase funding rate significantly . Neil Leitch , to whom she refer , be in our stakeholder group , and we value his input . however , I think it will be clear to people watch these exchange that while we get on with the big delivery of childcare ever , the Labour party have no plan , no policy , and no idea how to help family with childcare cost . the expansion of childcare be extremely welcome , and I have every confidence that the Minister and the excellent team at the Department for Education will deliver this current expansion on time and that the funding will reach all the family who need it . to be fair , however , the Minister be deal with a system that have become remarkably complicated over the last 15 or 20 year . would he be interested in discuss with the Chancellor the notion of roll up all the various funding stream that we provide for childcare , and indeed for family support , and instead of take money from people in taxis , lose some of the administration and return it to they in the form of mandate childcare , thus give every family with child a generous tax break to allow they to make choice for themselves ? my right hon . friend have write some article , which I have read , propose that very idea . we think that our present system be the good way of achieve what we want to achieve , but I be of course happy to continue my discussion with he . good - quality childcare be a crucial economic infrastructure issue for parent now and the education of child in the future , which be why we need it , but the system be too complex , and we can not access it in my constituency . provider be collapse . when will the Government think about draw up a workforce plan to try to stabilise the system before add more and more complexity for parent ? I be not sure what the hon . Lady mean when she say that people in Bristol can not access the system , but if she send I the detail , I shall be happy at look at they , because , I have say , ten of thousand of parent have already access it . I should also point out that while there have be a fall in the number of provider , there have be an increase in the number of both staff and place , so we be confident that we will deliver the roll - out as plan . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , and work parent across my constituency welcome this expansion and the big ever investment in childcare in England . today , however , I receive a letter from Victoria Morris , a very experienced childminder who have work in Leigh - on - Sea for more than 20 year , point out that someone who own a nursery can claim the funding for child to whom they be relate , include their own child , but that do not apply to childminder . she simply ask whether the Minister would consider lift that ban so that childminder be on the same footing as other childcare provider . the current legislation state that people can not access Government money for look after their own child , although it can happen in a large setting . we have no plan to change that at present , but I should be happy to have a discussion with my hon . friend . we know of the challenge that many parent face in try to find an appropriate nursery for their child , but it be even hard when a child have special educational need . accord to message I have receive , some nursery be refuse to take such child on . can the Minister say without equivocation that that be unlawful ? the hon . Gentleman have make an important point , and he be entirely right . we have hear from great organisation such as Dingley ' s promise that provider have not give place to child with special educational need , and the team and I be look into that to ensure that it be not the case . parent ask for support with childcare and the Treasury and the Government have deliver it , but the system do need to be simplify . I have be follow the analysis of the code , and receive the code , by Pregnant then Screwed , which announce today that a fix have be find and thank the Department . it would be helpful to hear a little more about that . will my hon . friend meet , for instance , the New Deal for Parents group , which be look for long - term simplification ? will he also tell we how he be work through the different local authority area to show that there will be place available now and also in September , because so many parent be look forward to that ? my hon . friend have be campaign on this issue since she arrive in this place . the tax - free childcare code issue be a specific issue cause by parent need to reconfirm their eligibility every three month to prove that they be still eligible . if they do that quite late last year , they be concerned that they might not be able to get the place they need in time for the 31 March deadline . as my hon . Friend say , Pregnant then Screwed have fix that issue . I would be happy to meet the group that she mention . on the sufficiency of place , we be in monthly contact with local authority to ensure that they have sufficient place , and only a very small number be report any concern at this point . a report from the Early Education and Childcare Coalition last November find that only 17 % of nursery manager say they could offer the extended entitlement , because of the crisis in recruitment in the sector , and 35 % say they would limit the number of place they offer unless the Government help with recruitment . More than half of all nursery worker have say they be plan on leave the sector in the next 12 month . what will the Minister do to address the crisis in recruitment and retention in the sector so that nursery can provide the extended entitlement that parent want ? we have see a 4 % increase in the number of staff in 2023 , compare with 2022 . none the less , part of the reason why this be a phase implementation and expansion of childcare be to ensure that we have the number of staff we need , and in a couple of week we will be launch a big recruitment campaign to get more people into the sector . will the Minister name and shame those authority that be be dilatory in publish their rate ? I reserve the right to do that , but we hope that if we ring they up first and ask they to publish — with the threat of do that if they do not — they will do so . the current system of childcare support be not work : it problem be cause parent to be lock out of the system ; code be not work ; there be no timescale to sort problem ; there be no response to complaint ; and people be wait week for money to be pay to provider . if the current system be not work , how do the Minister expect to reassure parent that the new system , which will rely on the same code and system , be go to work ? I simply do not accept what the hon . Lady say — [ interruption . ] if she want to send I detail , I will be happy to take they up with any local authority that be not do what it be ask to do . on the two particular issue with the roll - out , we have move quickly and provide solution for they . this be the big ever expansion of childcare and it will be transformational for many work parent , so it be bind to be really complicated to implement . the Minister have just say that only a tiny number of local authority be report that they think they will not have sufficient place , so do that mean that the vast majority of local authority say that they will have sufficient place ? what be he do to encourage more people to come into the profession and act as childminder ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right : the vast majority of local authority be already report that they will have the number of place that they need . we be work with the small number that have challenge and we be confident that they will be in the right place by that point . on her question about childminder , one of the thing we be do be introduce a brand - new childminder grant scheme to encourage more childminder into the great early year career that be available . I hear the Minister talk about the staffing . for a new parent or carer , hand over their young child to the staff in the sector be one of the most scary thing . those staff do fantastic work but be often pay low wage . the Women ' s Budget Group have estimate that there will need to be at least 40 , 000 additional new early year staff to cope with the increase in entitlement in term of recruitment and retention in the sector . will the Minister outline when we can expect the long - term workforce plan for the early year sector , so that we can actually have the staff ? it be no good have this increase in entitlement if there be no staff to look after the child . the hon . Lady be right that we need more staff . I think she refer to the estimate in time for September 2025 , rather than for the first part of the roll - out in April , which be part of the reason for the current recruitment campaign . we be pleased to have already see a 4 % increase in the number of staff . I welcome the fact that the Government be roll out the big ever investment in childcare in England . will my hon . friend outline how much the average work family will benefit from the extend childcare entitlement ? my hon . friend be right that it be the big expansion of childcare provision in history . by the time the roll - out be complete in September 2025 , it will save the average family up to £ 6 , 500 a year in childcare cost . many of we try to warn the Government that this would be like help to buy , push up demand without tackle supply . number matter in this sector , and it be 313 day since the policy be announce and just 70 day before it be due to be implement . there have be 30 separate question in this place about the staffing shortfall , and none of they have be answer . there be two child chase every register place , and only two local authority have actually agree the rate . it be little wonder that parent be frustrated . will the Minister set out , here and now , the staffing shortfall in term of deliver the two - year - old offer in April ? will he tell we what it be , and will he tell we when he expect to close it ? as I have already say , the roll - out be base on — what be the number ? the hon . Lady cite the figure for September 2025 , not for April . I be confident that , in April , she will see that we have the staff available for the roll - out . I declare an interest as the father of two wonderful child , Charlotte and Persephone , who go to nursery in this very place and will benefit from the new proposal . the UK have a decline birth rate — on average , 1 . 92 child per woman — and we clearly need more child . time and again , when survey , woman who want more child say that they be not have more child because they can not afford it . I thoroughly welcome the money that have be announce , but what more be be do to support parent who say they want more child but can not afford to have they ? that could perhaps include look at the tax rate . I hope Charlotte and Persephone enjoy their nursery provision here , which I be sure be among the 96 % of early year provider that be good or outstanding . my hon . friend be right that childcare be one of the big financial challenge face family today , which be why we be pleased to save they so much money . I be happy to continue the conversation about what else he think should be do to support family . the shortfall in childcare provider be a serious issue for constituent in Putney . Eastwood Nursery School , the last remain state - maintain nursery in my constituency , be under immediate threat of closure . it provide training for childcare provider across the constituency , as well as excellent early year education . do the Minister support state - maintain nursery ? will he meet I to talk about the future of Eastwood Nursery School ? we certainly support state - maintain nursery , which play a vital role in the sector . I would be delighted to meet the hon . Lady to discuss that particular case . I praise the Minister for be on top of his brief and for iron out some of the misunderstanding fly around today . be it not the case that , as other have say , the challenge of roll out this offer sit within the broad context of the ongoing workforce challenge ? today I speak to a provider that have 42 setting and be not able to fully staff a single one of they . I know the Minister be do a lot of work on this , but will he say a little more about how he plan to meet that workforce challenge with his recruitment drive ? I thank my hon . friend , who have also do a lot to champion the sector and to raise awareness of the challenge it face . he be right that we need to get more people into the workforce , particularly for the September 2025 roll - out . that be what the recruitment campaign and the change we make to the early year foundation stage be all about . we listen to provider on the flexibility that might make their life easy and deliver almost everything they ask for , in the hope that it will help they with recruitment and retention . I recently visit the Ryton Willows Montessori nursery in my constituency , where its manager explain her concern about the impact of the change on she , and about how she be go to make the sum add up financially and provide an excellent service . we have hear that the final figure be not available ; when will they be available ? will the Minister undertake to review the figure to see that they meet the need of the sector ? we set our rate by conduct a survey of 10 , 000 provider , in order to understand the cost they face and set the rate accordingly . [ Official Report , 30 January 2024 , Vol . 744 , c . 9mc . ] last November , we delay publish the rate a bit , in order that we could provide more money to take account of the Government ' s near 10 % increase in the national living wage . we believe we be get they right in relation to what people be pay , but if the hon . Lady have particular evidence she would like to send I , I will happily look at it . last Friday , I visit the Butterfly Lodge nursery in Blackpool to hear the concern of early year provider , many of whom be at break point . they welcome the uplift in funding from April , but they be keen to emphasise that it do not even cover the significant increase in their cost , such as for utility and the national living wage . what step be the Government take to stabilise the sector and prevent early year provider from leave it altogether ? I set out in my statement the additional money that we have give to the sector in the last financial year and this one to help it to meet those cost pressure — that be anchor to the survey of 10 , 000 provider that I talk about . [ Official Report , 30 January 2024 , Vol . 744 , c . 10mc . ] again , if the hon . Gentleman want to send I information , datum or specific case study , I will gladly have a look . I be glad the Minister say that , because I have a specific case from my constituency that I wish to raise . it relate to the parent of a two - year - old and a nine - month - old baby . they be teacher in local secondary school and the mother be plan on return to work after maternity leave . they have be really struggle with this issue of the portal , when they would get the code through and so on . I hope that what be announce will help they , but will the Minister confirm that if it turn out that it do not , I will be able to write to he and get an immediate response ? yes , and I hope that the hon . Lady will do so . we have take an extra - cautious approach on this . a particular group of parent be affect and rather than just write to they , we have write to a much broad group of parent : everybody whose reconfirmation window go from middle of February to the end of March . so no parent should lose out as a result of this issue and she should get in touch with I immediately if those parent be encounter any problem . the business involve in provide childcare need to be able to plan ahead . the Minister may say , " everything will be fine in April . there may be some problem down the road , but we be confident we can iron they out , " but that really be not go to be get people to invest in lease from premise and all sort of thing that those who run childcare business be go to need to commit to , so will he give we a bit more detail ? he say he be confident that this be go to meet the need , but 700 , 000 child be go to join the scheme , accord to the Government ' s own figure . where be those childcare provider go to get the information they need in order to be confident that they can invest to go forward ? we be in monthly contact with local authority and at least monthly contact with provider about this . some local authority do take a long time to publish their rate . we be look at that , because we have provide the information and the funding that we need to , and we do not think it be right for provider in the sector to be wait right up until 31 March to get that information . so we be look at what we can do on that . have say that , some local authority have already confirm their rate and the vast majority will do so in the come week . the initiative be suppose to provide 700 , 000 additional childcare place , yet 5 % of provider withdraw from the market last year , include in the Sandymoor part of my constituency . how do Ministers square that circle , give the funding pressure go forward ? we be do all we can to help provider meet the funding pressure . it be important for member of the House to understand that there be a difference between the fall in the number of provider , which can be see in nationally publish datum , and the increase in the number of staff and place . I be confident that parent will be able to access these hour as entitle . every time the Government have make an announcement to improve childcare , I have welcome it . I be pleased to serve on the Bill Committee for the Childcare Act 2016 , but I question then exactly how the Government be go to deliver the capacity need within the budget available . the Minister say that all would be well , but he be wrong and it take year to build up capacity , and the current offer be still not be universally deliver . give the poor preparation for this late initiative , how on earth can parent expect the Government to deliver this time ? I be glad that the hon . Gentleman have welcome our announcement on childcare , although member on the Opposition Front Bench have not do so . we be in close contact with local authority and provider in order to deliver the initiative , and parent will be able to get those first 15 hour for their two - year - old in April . do the Minister believe that part of the consideration on affordable childcare will take into account the need for nursery to be able to operate alongside the cost of living crisis ? can additional funding be find to meet that need , not for the sake of the delivery of a promise but for the child who desperately need the care to enable their development and for the parent who simply can not afford to do it alone ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point about the increase cost pressure that everybody have to face . that be why we give an additional £ 204 million in the last financial year and a furth £ 400 million in the current financial year to help meet those pressure , base on the fact that we survey 10 , 000 provider in order to understand exactly what they be pay for all the thing he outline . [ Official Report , 30 January 2024 , Vol . 744 , c . 10mc . ] Measles ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to make a statement on the declaration of a national incident in response to the recent surge in measle case . I thank the hon . Lady for give I the chance to update the House on this important matter , far to the write ministerial statement that we will publish later today . the UK Health Security Agency announce last week that it have declare a national standard incident in response to an increase in confirm case of measle . in order for our measle , mump and rubella vaccine to work , the World Health Organisation recommend at least 95 % coverage to maintain population coverage . at the moment , our MMR reach be 89 . 3 % for the first dose at 24 month , and 84 . 5 % for the second dose at five year . this be not a new issue . there have be a gradual decline in coverage over 10 year because of a number of factor , range from the Wakefield generation , when Dr Andrew Wakefield publish his discredit paper on the risk of MMR , through to covid , when routine vaccination be miss , and there have be a drop since then . there have also be concern in particular community , such as the jewish and muslim community , about the type of vaccine use . we have not be wait : the NHS have carry out a catch - up effort over the past 12 month , proactively contact parent and carer of unvaccinated child age five and young , and we have see a 10 % increase in vaccination compare to the previous year . however , that be not enough . nhs figure show that almost 3 . 5 million child under the age of 16 be unprotected and at risk of catch this serious and preventable disease . [ Official Report , 24 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 16wc . ] ( correction ) Measles be so infectious that one infected child in a classroom can infect up to nine other unvaccinated child , make it one of the most infectious disease worldwide . while for most it will be a mild illness , one in five child with measle will need to be admit to hospital for treatment , put additional pressure on the NHS . I want to stress that this be not just a childhood disease ; for adult who have not be vaccinate it can be a serious and potentially life - change event . my message to mum and dad with child who be currently unvaccinate be to come forward . we have a range of measure in place . one million letter be go out to the parent of unvaccinated child across London and the midland . we have extra clinic be set up by GPs , pop - up clinic in school and vaccine bus target community with low vaccination rate . we have hold two MP briefing session , on 12 and 19 January : one for the west midland and one for London . today we have send out information to mps so that they can help we get the message out to their constituent to come forward . it be not too late . there be no age limit . anybody who have not have their vaccination can come forward . the first vaccine will provide roughly 92 % protection , and the second will provide 98 % . the message be to come forward and get vaccinate . thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker . the declaration of a national incident due to the rise in measle case by the UK Health Security Agency on Friday be concern . measle can be serious and it be extremely infectious , with a reproduction rate five time that of covid . however , it be also entirely preventable . the Minister be right to emphasise the importance of get vaccinate . the MMR vaccine be safe , effective and the good way to protect ourselves and our loved one against measle . there be no age cut - off for get an MMR vaccine . there be alternative available for those who do not touch pork product . once a person have have it , the vaccine can provide protection within two week . I urge anyone watch this who have not be vaccinate to contact their gp . Mr Speaker , we be in agreement that this issue be serious . I thank the Minister for outline some of the step that she be take . however , we should never have get to this point . the UK be deem by the World Health Organisation to have eradicate measle just five year ago . since then , MMR vaccination rate have plummet , leave ten of thousand of child completely unprotected , which mean that now one in five child be not protect with two dose by the age of five . case have also rise consistently over the year , and by 120 % in the past year alone , so the warning sign could have be see from space . what step be be take to get a grip on this crisis before it become a national outbreak ? how will the Minister rectify her Department ' s failure to maintain child vaccination rate for contagious disease ? be this not another instance of Government complacency when it come to protect our child ' s health ? for the record , Mr Speaker , my team attend a briefing with the Minister and her official on this issue on 12 January , which she have mention . I request some more information and communication material that I could use in my capacity as a local MP , give the rise in case in Birmingham . it take until this morning — some 10 day later — to be send that information , but only after a national incident have be declare . have the Government be asleep ? have no lesson be learn from the pandemic that , with highly transmissible disease , the soon we act , the well ? we see how much child suffer and lose out during the pandemic , so the re - emergence of serious childhood illness that we have vaccine for and that we know how to prevent be unacceptable . when 80 country across the world be measle - free , it be a badge of shame that this Government have lose the UK that status on their watch . I remind the hon . Lady that health be a devolved matter across the United Kingdom . when she refer to the United Kingdom ' s low MMR vaccination rate , do she include Labour - run Wales ? Wales have also not meet the WHO threshold , and neither have Scotland , Northern Ireland or England . it be a real shame to play politic with this issue . this be an issue of the utmost importance . as I have set out , this Government have be work over the past 12 month to get vaccination rate up in England , and we have see a 10 % increase . there be a range of reason why we be see certain part of the country and some community not come forward . the hon . Lady touch on the concern of the jewish and muslim community that a wide range of MMR vaccine be porcine vaccine . we do have non - porcine vaccine available . priorix be not just available on request ; follow a meeting that we have with west midland MPs , we proactively push Priorix out to community . the help of local mp to get that message out to community would be extremely valuable . there be also a halal vaccine available . again , we need to get that message out , so that people do not have to request it ; it would be routinely offer to they . we be also undo much of the damage do to the Wakefield cohort of young adult , who be bear between 1998 and 2004 , when Dr Andrew Wakefield ' s discredit paper on the risk of MMR lead to a drop in the number come forward for the vaccine . those young adult be eligible for vaccine right now to try to prevent the spread of measle . we also know that covid disrupt the routine vaccination programme . again , that be a key reason why all four nation of the United Kingdom be not meet the who recommend coverage . as I have set out , letter be go out to the parent of unvaccinated child , because we recognise that rate have be low than we would wish . one million have go out across London and the west midland . of all part of the United Kingdom , it be the west midland that we be most concerned about . to give the House some context , last year there be more than 209 laboratory - confirm measle case in England , over three quarter of which be from the west midland , predominantly Birmingham and Coventry , so there be a particular push in the west midland . that be why nearly two week ago we give a briefing to local mps and local director of public health , who be do an outstanding job at the coalface , roll out pop - up clinic in school and go out on community bus to reach community that may struggle to be reach through traditional route . GPs be put on extra clinic , but we have to get the message out . it be not through a lack of vaccine or a lack of messaging , but we still have vaccine hesitancy . we all have a role to play in get community to come forward . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . in April last year , the UK Health Security Agency tell the Health and Social Care Committee that it be " expect measle to come back " , while the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation tell we that the threat be " very real " . last summer , as the Minister know , we publish a vaccination report as part of our prevention inquiry . we be pleased that , in answer to a recommendation , NHS England publish its vaccination strategy just before Christmas . can the Minister say more about how she will inject more urgency into the roll - out , and will she commit , as we also ask , to a much more flexible delivery model for vaccination , include through pharmacy ? the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee be right . that be why we have meet with both the west midland and the London team to hear from those on the ground what resource they need in order to become more nimble in the vaccine roll - out . the community that be not come forward be the one that be not engage with the routine MMR vaccine programme , so we need to be more nimble , which be why we be hear from those vaccinate on the ground about vaccine bus go into community , pop - up clinic in school , and GPs put on extra vaccine clinic . from our datum , we have a list of the child who be unvaccinate , and more than a million letter have go out to their parent to urge they to come forward . my hon . friend be right about use pharmacy , with Pharmacy First as a model , to make it even easy for people to come forward , but the real barrier be people ' s reluctance to get vaccinate for a variety of reason , whether it be vaccine fatigue through covid or because they miss their routine appointment and find it difficult to come forward at an extra clinic . we be engage with local authority and the Department for Education to try to make it as easy as possible for child and adult to get vaccinate . there be clear inequality in vaccination uptake , include MMR , which reflect various socioeconomic inequality . what extra support be be give to those area , and to place such as mine , and why , as the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee suggest , be the risk assessment of the UK Health Security Agency seemingly ignore by the Government ? I can assure the hon . Lady that it be not ignore by the Government . over the past 12 month , we have be push vaccination to those who have not come forward , and to community that struggle with vaccination uptake , which be why in the past 12 month there have be a 10 % increase . as I say , that be not enough . there be still people who need to come forward for vaccination who have not do so . I emphasise to the House that this be an acute outbreak of measle . if someone have their first dose of the measle vaccine today , within two week they will have roughly 92 % immunity . if they go on to have the second vaccine , they will have roughly 98 % immunity , which will be lifelong . might vaccination rate benefit from a much more generous compensation scheme for the very small number of severe adverse reaction ? we have a vaccine damage payment scheme , which provide a one - off payment of £ 120 , 000 . that be accessible for any vaccine that someone take up , but I have to say that part of the problem be mislead information about the safety of vaccine . the measle vaccine be safe . at one point , we have eliminate measle in this country . Most child will be fine , with a mild illness , but we have have episode of child get encephalitis , which be a swelling of the brain that have lifelong consequence . we must move away from the narrative that vaccine be not safe . the measle vaccine be one of the safe vaccine people can have . I really do not think that that message be helpful . during the covid pandemic , my constituency of St Albans have one of the high rate of vaccination . that be , in part , because of the work of our gps and pharmacist , but we be also incredibly proactive at recruit community champion , who could have those vital conversation to tackle hesitancy within particular pocket of our community . the Minister have mention pop - up clinic and van , but she have not mention the role of community champion . will she work with and support the director of public health to recruit those community champion , who can have those vital conversation so that people can put their question to people they know and trust ? the hon . Lady be right that we use community champion during covid . we have some particularly effective campaign for those community that do not traditionally come forward for vaccination , and that be do by use community leader , faith leader and trust organisation within community . we be do that in the west midland , in London and across the country . those people tell we that one of the key thing that prevent jewish and muslim community in particular from come forward be their fear about the porcine vaccine . just to reiterate , we have two type of MMR vaccine . priorix do not contain gelatine and be safe and effective as an MMR vaccine . it be available on request , but we be also push out its availability so that people do not have to request it and it be offer up front . it be important that people know we have sufficient supply of the gelatine - free MMR product , and faith leader , community group and organisation be try to get that message out to those two particular group . my hon . friend have an important message today because , after clean water , vaccine be the most impactful public health measure we have and , without a doubt , they save life . one of the lesson we learn through the pandemic be that the most effective way to reach hard - to - reach community be through faith and community leader and to take the vaccine to those community , whether that be to mosque or temple . will she do whatever she can to ensure that we employ the same measure this time and take the vaccine to the community and not expect the community to go to the vaccine ? will she also consider reach out to those fantastic vaccinator we have during the covid pandemic , who be highly train to deliver vaccine to all age group , and get they on board to get the MMR vaccination carry out as quickly as possible ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I pay tribute to the work she do during the covid pandemic to roll out the vaccine programme to those community group . that have such an effective reach for something we be struggle with previously , and she work hard on that . that be exactly what we be try to replicate with this roll - out , and we be work with community group and faith leader , but also take the vaccine out to community . I be on the call with the London team on Friday , and they have a vaccine bus that they be take out to community centre and faith group so that people do not have to book an appointment to get the vaccine . it be important to say that this be not just for child . if an adult have not have their vaccine , it be never too late to get the MMR vaccine to protect themselves against measle . do the Minister accept that the reduction in the number of health professional who support parent have contribute to the reduction in the number of parent present their child for the MMR vaccine , and that that be one of the lesson we should learn from this situation ? I would not agree with the hon . Gentleman . we have plenty of vaccine — that be one of the message we want to get out — and that be both the traditional MMR vaccine and the non - porcine vaccine . we also have plenty of vaccination space . we have space at GP clinic and pharmacy , and the school roll - out programme have space , but we still do not have people come forward . we really need the help of all hon . member in this place to get the message out that people should come forward for their MMR vaccine to protect against measle . every time my six - year - old come home coughing , I get a bit scared because , obviously , measle be highly contagious . it be important that we get the message out about the way it be pass on through cough , sneeze and high fever . the Minister have outline a range of area where the Government be try to get that message out , but the fact be that they be fight against a system where a number of the hesitancy message be share in closed group — group that be get that message out to parent and carer who will not come forward . will the Minister outline what the Government be do to counter that and to give people an informed choice on the vaccine , so that they come forward with their child ? the hon . Lady be quite right that there be vaccine hesitancy , and that be a key reason why uptake have drop so significantly across all group , but more in some group than in other . that be why NHS England and the UK Health Security Agency have write to more than 1 million parent in the west midland and London to highlight the benefit of have the MMR vaccine . as more case of measle break out , we be see more people come forward to take up the vaccine , because they be balance for themselves the risk of have the vaccine , which be very minimal , against the risk of have measle . any help that hon . member can give be welcome and we be very willing to hear any suggestion they have for helpful message in their own particular community . the Minister be right to point out that one reason for the decline in people come forward to take up the MMR vaccine be the rise of dis - and misinformation about the vaccine — not just online , but , sadly , perpetrate in this House . the Online Safety Act 2023 do very little to tackle online dis - and misinformation and to keep people safe . what be the purpose of the Government ' s counter disinformation unit ? why be there no transparency on what that unit be supposedly do , and when will the Government stand up to the social medium platform and stop they proliferate this dis - and misinformation and profit from something that be cause real - world harm ? the hon . Lady have a point that part of the vaccine hesitancy be due to misinformation about vaccine more generally . that be why we be try to use the message of immunisation rather than vaccination , because it be a much more positive message . we be also provide positive message and social medium graphic for community and member of this House to roll out to counter some of that misinformation . it be really important that we get that message out . there be a problem with misinformation , and I want to reiterate that measle be a highly infectious disease that can be eliminate by vaccination alone . I thank the Minister very much for her positive response to this urgent question . you and I be of similar vintage , Mr Speaker , and I recall get my measle vaccination at Ballywalter Primary School in the early ' 60 — so not yesterday , but a long time ago . there be a system where vaccination happen in school , and I think that be where it should happen . the Northern Ireland Audit Office report that the number of pre - school vaccination have be steadily decline and the rate of child get the MMR vaccine at two year of age have fall from 96 % in 2012 to 90 % in 2022 — a significant drop in Northern Ireland , with a population of 1 . 95 million . there be clearly a crisis emerge not just in England , but across the whole of the United Kingdom , in particular in Northern Ireland . do the Minister agree it would be helpful to have a joint approach across the whole United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , to ensure that child be vaccinate and , more importantly , protect against this awful disease ? it be always well to do it together ; that be my suggestion to the Minister . I think that be the Adjournment debate on measle . [ Laughter . ] the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right and I want to work with all four corner of the United Kingdom , because none of we be meet the World Health Organisation coverage for MMR . Northern Ireland have similar rate to England at 89 % . a join - up approach , so that we have well coverage for MMR across the UK and can get back on top of breakout and eradicate measle once again , would be very welcome . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . at the end of last year , I raise the issue of other member of this House be active in my constituency without notify I . unfortunately that be continue , and the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) and the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Paul Blomfield ) be out in Rother Valley on Saturday . it be worth note that other hon . member be also in Rother Valley , but they do notify I . since I notify the two member that I would be raise this point of order , the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford have send her apology , which I have accept . thank you , Mr Speaker , for clarify the situation on people go into other constituency early today . I hope that people visit other people ' s seat be not turn into a habit . I be glad that the hon . Gentleman acknowledge the statement that I make , which I think be pretty comprehensive for Members from all part of the House . election fever have take over — I have not even notice that the election have be call — but I hope that member can calm down a little and give due respect to each other ' s constituency , whatever party they belong to . please , treat other as you wish to be treat . Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . Britain be the first major economy to halve its emission . that be an incredible achievement . how have we do it ? we have increase our renewable electricity capacity fivefold since 2010 — nearly half our electricity come from renewable now , up from 7 % in 2010 — and just two week ago , I set out the large nuclear expansion for 70 year . we continue to have some of the most ambitious climate change target of any major world economy . here in the UK , we be commit to reduce emission by at least 68 % by 2030 from 1990 level . where be everybody else ? the EU be commit to 55 % , have recently reject a move to 57 % , and the United States be at just 40 % . it be clear that , when it come to climate change , we can be proud of our record and the work that we will do . we have manage to achieve that while act to help family with their energy bill . we step in to help family struggle with energy price after Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine , and our total support for the cost of living stand at £ 104 billion — a package that be among the most generous in Europe . last year , we pass the landmark Energy Act 2023 , which lay the foundation for a clean and more secure energy system . our change to competition , to manage energy consumption and to incentivise investment in new technology will mean billion in saving for consumer as we work towards net zero . we have oversee a huge increase in the number of energy - efficient home from 14 % in 2010 to almost half today , and we be invest more over the next Parliament to continue that important work . the Secretary of State paint a very rosy picture , particularly on renewable , so why have her own energy tsar resign in protest ? we do not actually have an energy tsar , but we have an energy Secretary of State . I respect the former Member for Kingswood and wish he well in his next job , but if we care about reduce emission , the question that everybody in this Chamber need to answer be , " why would you import fuel with high emission from abroad ? " we be invest in more renewable energy , we be start a nuclear revival , and we will support new technology , such as hydrogen , carbon capture and fusion . this be our plan to have a balanced energy policy . however , we need to ensure that the transition work for the british public and the british economy . our plan can not be base on ideology ; they must be base on common sense . even the Climate Change Committee ' s own datum show that when we reach net zero in 2050 , we will still be use oil and gas for a significant portion of our energy . that be because it be not absolute zero ; it be net zero . in other word , while our use of oil and gas will diminish rapidly , we will still need both for decade to come . our Bill will improve our energy security and that of Europe . in the past two year , Europe have have to wean itself off russian oil and gas . we have respond by triple gas export to the continent , and we be a net exporter of electricity to Europe in 2022 for the first time in more than a decade . we do not live in a world in which we can simply turn off oil and gas . be the right hon . Lady say that the only licence the Government intend to issue be for gas and oil destine for the british market ? I be glad that the hon . Gentleman ask that question , because the Labour party have be spout an awful lot of nonsense when it come to this area . in the UK , we be bless with the geological gift that be the North sea — it be an incredible national asset . virtually all the gas produce there go straight into the UK gas transmission network , and it be equivalent to about 50 % of our overall gas need . when it come to oil , 90 % of what be refine abroad be refine in Europe . we be a net importer overall . the question that the hon . Gentleman should answer be this : if Europe do not get that oil from the UK , where would he like Europe to get it from — from Russia , or from far afield ? that question be at the heart of the Bill . we know that we be go to need oil and gas — where do we want it to come from ? only an ideologue would argue that we be well off import dirty fuel from abroad than use what we can produce at home . however , it be not just energy security that dictate that we should use our own resource ; the economic case also show that introduce annual licensing be the right thing to do . do the right hon . Lady accept that , despite the way in which some member of this House have try to rubbish that idea and argue that have our own oil and gas do not mean any energy security for the UK , 88 % of the gas that we extract at present stay in the UK ? would they prefer to import that ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for make that point . not only be it well for energy security , but gas that we bring in from abroad in the form of liquefy natural gas have emission four time high , so if member care about the environment , they should back this Bill . domestic oil and gas production add about £ 16 billion to the UK economy annually and bring in ten of billion of pound in tax revenue . to give an example of how that have help support family with the cost of living , we raise £ 9 billion in tax revenue last year from the oil and gas sector . that be money that we can use to support family , as we do last winter , pay half the average family ' s energy bill , which amount to roughly £ 1 , 500 per household . if we have no oil and gas sector , £ 9 billion more would have fall on taxpayer ' shoulder . why should we concede that tax revenue to other country ? what possible benefit could the british public feel from billion of pound in tax revenue that could be raise here be send abroad , all to import fuel with high emission ? I now turn to perhaps the most important reason to back this Bill : the worker . there be 200 , 000 people support by the sector , in community such as those in Aberdeen , Grimsby and the north - east of England , and include 93 , 000 people in Scotland , over 10 , 000 people in Yorkshire and the Humber , and 14 , 000 people in the north - west . the right hon . Lady know as well as I do that most of the gas we import come from Norway , where gas production be half as pollute as it be in the UK , so let we not have all this nonsense about import be so much high in carbon intensity , because those from Norway certainly be not . do she accept the fact that most of the emission be produce when we consume the oil and gas , and therefore will she start look at scope 3 emission and not just the production emission , which be not the great emission in question ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , but I think it fundamentally misunderstand the energy market . when we can not get norwegian gas and when we have make the most of all of our gas , what be the marginal gas that we use ? it be LNG , which produce emission four time high than the gas we can produce here . if we produce less UK gas , we will need more lng . come back to what be a really critical part of the Bill — the worker — a recent report from Robert Gordon University find that a fast decline in our oil and gas sector , which the opposition be propose , could halve the workforce by 2030 , lead to a significant loss of skill for the future energy sector . those be the worker whose skill we will need for our future energy production . the same report find that over 90 % of the UK ' s oil and gas workforce have skill that be transferable to the offshore renewable sector . however , if we do not manage that transition correctly — everybody in the Chamber today agree that we need to transition — we will lose those very important worker and their skill . it be the same people who be work on oil and gas rig today who we will need on the offshore wind farm of tomorrow : our subsea installation engineer who lay cable , our technician who remotely operate subsea vehicle , our diver , our project manager , and our engineering specialist service our offshore rig . those be all essential oil and gas job that we know will be critical in the roll - out of our low - carbon technology . if we do not protect our world - lead specialist , we will see community decimate , and ultimately a skill exodus that would put at risk the very transition that we be work so hard to achieve . my right hon . friend be make a very powerful point about both energy security and get those job — those british job . recently , I visit the Falkland Islands with a cross - party delegation , and when we meet the Falkland Islands Government , they say that they be desperate to unlock the Sea Lion oilfield and to get british worker to operate that field — obviously , the Falkland Islands be a british overseas territory — yet they be be stymie by the UK Treasury , which will not underwrite it . do my right hon . friend agree that the next thing we should do be back overseas territory by develop their oilfield , so that we can have good british overseas territory oil and gas in the UK and british job in the overseas territory , and support our one big happy Commonwealth and overseas territory family ? my hon . friend make an interesting point , and I would be very happy to meet he to discuss it far . let I turn to investment in the sector . I think we agree across all party in the House that we want to be a world leader in clean energy technology . here in Britain , we have many competitive advantage , and we want to exploit all of they to have a bright energy and economic future . right now , the oil and gas sector be invest in hydrogen , carbon capture and offshore wind . a well - manage transition help ensure that as we get more investment and grow these sector people can transition alongside in an orderly and organic way . to shut down the oil and gas sector too soon would not only risk that investment , make it hard to do the transition and see those sector grow more slowly , but risk people ' s livelihood . the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill will give the industry the certainty it need to invest in this important sector . if we need oil and gas in the decade to come , it should come from Britain where it can . use the resource on our doorstep to benefit Britain be simple common sense . this new legislation will require the North Sea Transition Authority to run an annual process for new exploration and production licence on the UK continental shelf , subject to key test be meet : first , that the UK be project to remain a net importer of both oil and gas ; and secondly , that carbon emission associate with UK gas be low than for import liquefy natural gas . these test be in place to provide assurance that proceed with annual licensing remain the right thing to do . this Bill will provide the industry with certainty on the future of licensing round , increase investor and industry confidence . it will increase our energy security , protect 200 , 000 job , secure ten of billion in tax revenue and help we reach net zero . member should not just take my word for it ; voice across industry recognise the need for new licence for net zero and for our energy security . in fact , Stuart Payne , the chief executive of the North Sea Transition Authority , recently write that " produce as much of the oil and gas we need as possible domestically be the right thing to do , for security and the economy . " Offshore Energies UK have say : " the UK need the churn of new licence to manage production decline " . National Gas have say that by back gas today " we can create job , secure energy independence , deliver net zero , and keep cost down for household and business . " the general secretary of the GMB have say that not proceed with new licensing risk " leave the UK even more dependent on energy import to heat home and power industry in future . that ' s bad for our national security and prosperity . " I have no doubt that the opposition will whip their mps against the Bill . they want to shut down new oil and gas licence , and they have be very clear about that . I suspect there be many in the Labour party who understand what turn off the tap would mean for british worker , and they will vote against this Bill with a heavy heart . they know that the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) have get this wrong . be it not just common sense that , if we need oil and gas , it should come from UK water rather than from foreign and often unreliable regime abroad ? be it not well to produce our own gas instead of ship in liquefy natural gas that have four time the production emission of our own ? be it not right that the billion of pound in tax that we raise from this sector stay here rather than be send abroad ? be it not the position of an ideologue to say , " we will not support 200 , 000 british worker , but we be happy for those job to go to Russia or far abroad " ? the position of the Labour party and the SNP be not right for the environment , not right for the economy and not right for the energy security of this country . as the head of the GMB warn this weekend , it would be " export job " for the sake of " import virtue " . it would mean thousand of job lose , community decimate , tax revenue forgone , and all so that the right hon . Gentleman can appease his friend in just stop Oil . they be put the interest of extreme climate ideologue over those of ordinary worker . what of labour ' s wide energy policy ? the truth be that , when it come to this critical policy area , its policy be as clear as mud . we know that it hinge on borrow £ 28 billion , which would mean thousand of pound in extra taxis for every family . while we be cut taxis , the opposition would see they soar , which be not what the people of this country need . the right hon . Gentleman should level with the british public : what taxis would he raise to pay for this extra £ 28 billion of borrowing ? when he be shadow Business Secretary , he say that £ 28 billion be the " scale of investment require " . the Opposition have say that they need to spend £ 28 billion to meet their 2030 decarbonisation ambition . so why will the right hon . Gentleman not set out which taxis he would raise ? how be he go to squeeze more money out of hard - work family to achieve his 2030 pipedream ? if he really think £ 28 billion in extra spending be essential , he should have the courage to explain how much bad off taxpayer will be . while the Labour party struggle to back its own plan , over the past few month we have secure £ 30 billion - worth of private investment in clean energy . that be the difference between they and we : we know private investment be key to transition , but they would rather taxpayer shoulder the cost alone through more borrowing and high taxis . that be the choice the House must make today : do we support the oil and gas sector and the private investment that come with it or do we leave taxpayer to foot the bill ? we can not afford to lose the skill , the revenue or the investment the sector provide ; to do so would put net zero in jeopardy . we must deliver this transition in a proportionate , pragmatic and realistic way , ensure that we make the most of the energy we produce right here in the UK . that be common sense , and that be what the legislation represent . with this Bill we will protect 200 , 000 job , strengthen our energy security , secure ten of billion of pound in tax revenue , ease the transition to renewable energy , and supply ourselves with gas that have only a quarter of the production emission of LNG import . or we could follow the approach of the opposition and decimate community that rely on the oil and gas sector , rack up borrowing by £ 28 billion a year , send taxis soar to pay for it and send british job and tax revenue abroad , all to import fuel with high emission . the choice be very clear : we be on the side of common sense , not ideology , and I commend this Bill to the House . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House , while affirm the need for urgent action to tackle the UK ' s energy insecurity , the cost of living crisis , and the climate crisis , and for a manage , fair and prosperous transition for worker and community , decline to give a second reading to the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill because mandate annual oil and gas licensing round will not reduce energy cost for household and business as the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero have state , will not enhance energy security , offer no plan for the future of the UK ' s offshore energy community , will ensure the UK remain at the mercy of petrostate and dictator who control fossil fuel market , be entirely incompatible with the UK ' s international climate change commitment and be a totally unnecessary piece of legislation which will do nothing to serve the UK ' s national interest . " I want first to express my deep condolence to the family of the two people kill by storm Isha and my sympathy to all those face power cut and disruption from the storm . the propose legislation we be consider today will not cut bill or give we energy security , drive a coach and horse through our climate commitment and learn nothing from the bad cost of living crisis in memory , which the british people be still go through — a cost of living crisis cause by our dependence on fossil fuel . since the launch of the Bill two month ago , the case for it have disintegrate on contact with reality . let I remind the House of the series of unfortunate event that have befall the Bill since its publication . on day one — launch day — the Energy Secretary go on tv with the big reveal , tell the public the Bill would not cut bill . next we discover from confidential minute of the North Sea Transition Authority that it think the Bill be unnecessary and compromise its independence . [ interruption . ] the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) say from a sedentary position that that be not the case . he be wrong and I will read he the minute : " the Board express a unanimous view that such a proposal be not necessary for the NSTA … the Board note that the proposal would significantly challenge one of the tenet of independence for the NSTA " . as the right hon . Gentleman be enjoyably quote the NSTA minute not its on - the - record comment , will he also support its position that we should maximise all of the oil and gas production in the North sea ? that be not the NSTA position , as I have discuss with it . next , Lord Browne , the former ceo of BP , attack the Bill and say it be " not go to not make any difference " to energy security . then Britain ' s most respected climate expert , Lord Stern , pillory it as " a deeply damaging mistake " . then on the eve of COP — the conference of the party — the former Prime Minister the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , who sign net zero into law , say she disagree with the Bill ; to my knowledge , she do not support just stop Oil . you do . of course I don ' t . then the former COP president — [ interruption . ] let ' s be serious . then the former COP president the right hon . member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) , a man respect around the world who we be lucky to have play that role at COP26 , say the Bill be " smoke and mirror … not be serious … the opposite of what we agree to do internationally " . finally , their own net zero tsar — the man they trust to guide they on question of energy — be so disgusted by the Bill that he be not in the Chamber today . in fact , he be so ashamed that he have flee to the Chiltern Hundreds . that be certainly get a long way away from the right hon . Lady the Secretary of State and her policy . it show how far people will go . it be not so much the oil and gas extraction Bill but the Conservative MP extraction Bill that she be put forward today . the former net zero tsar say : " I can no long condone nor continue to support a government that be commit to a course of action that I know be wrong and will cause future harm . " we should take all these voice — Lord Browne , the former Prime Minister , the former net zero tsar and the former COP President — [ interruption . ] I will come to all the argument that the Secretary of State make , if she will give I a minute , as I develop my argument . the big point be that we face massive challenge as a country , but it be not the scale of our problem that be so apparent today , but the smallness of the Government ' s response . we have a risible two - clause Bill that she know will not make any difference to our energy security , because everyone who know anything about this subject say so . as the Bill have fall apart , the Government have thrash around to try to find a rational justification , and they have make one futile argument after another . let we take each in turn . the first argument be that the Bill will cut price . in case the House be think , " do they really make that claim ? " , the claim be make by the Prime Minister in a tweet . at 9 . 57 be on launch day , he say that the Bill will " help reduce energy bill as we ' re less expose " — indicate assent . the Secretary of State nod , but I put on record my thank to she , because she have be an internal one - woman rebuttal unit against the Prime Minister . she go on breakfast tv — before the tweet , so we might call it a prebuttal — and say that the Bill " wouldn ' t necessarily bring energy bill down , that ' s not what we ' re say . " she be right , because oil and gas be trade on international market . if the right hon . Gentleman have read the full quote , I say that indirectly , through support to the renewable sector , the Bill bring down bill . the fact that we can raise tax to help people with the cost of living also bring down bill . if he would like to bring down bill for people in this country , he should back this Bill . that be great , because the Secretary of State anticipate my rebuttal of the second bad argument for this Bill , which be the argument she have just go on to make . she say that the tax revenue we get from fossil fuel justify this policy , and we have hear it again today . if anything , that be an even more complete load of nonsense than the Prime Minister ' s argument , because these be the fact : it be our reliance on fossil fuel that have cause rocket energy bill . that mean that the Government be force to step in to provide support for household and business [ Interruption . ] minister should just listen . the cost to Government of the support with bill have far outweigh any tax revenue . accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility , the windfall tax receipt from oil and gas company raise £ 25 billion , and the cost of Government support be more than £ 70 billion or , the Government say , £ 104 billion . the idea that our dependence on fossil fuel can be justify by the tax revenue we get , when they have spend £ 100 billion try to help people , be obviously nonsense . there be a third bad argument , and again we hear it today , which be that somehow this Bill strengthen our energy security . again , it be important to have a few fact in this debate . here be the fact : the UK ' s North sea gas production be set to fall with new licence by 95 % by 2050 , or without new licence by 97 % . that be the equivalent of four day of our current gas demand . all this absolute codswallop about the Bill guarantee our energy security and somehow guarantee 200 , 000 job be risible nonsense . here be the thing . we have have a real revelation in this debate — the Government have admit the truth — which be that the vast majority of oil be not use in this country ; it be export elsewhere , and 70 % of our remain reserve be oil , not gas . the idea that this make any difference to our energy security be nonsense — these be private company sell on the private market — and the Government have absolutely no response . the fourth bad argument be that the Bill will somehow protect job . that be wrong . we owe it to oil and gas community to protect they in the transition , but give the Conservatives ' record in constituency such as mine , we will not take lecture from they on just transition . we should admit a truth : the fossil fuel market be not just deeply unstable for consumer , as we have see over the last two year , but deeply unstable for worker . it be a total illusion that new licence will somehow guarantee job for North sea worker . in the last 10 year , the number of people work in oil and gas have more than halve . the International Energy Agency predict a peak in fossil fuel demand by 2030 . that be why its head say : " new large - scale fossil fuel project not only carry major climate risk , but also business and financial risk for the company and their investor . " that apply to worker , too . the right way to have a manage transition in the North sea be to carry on use exist field — a Labour Government will do that — and to have a plan for North sea worker by drive forward with job in the industry of the future : offshore wind , carbon capture and hydrogen . but that be not what the Government have do . we have a graphic example of that last week . the world ' s large float wind prototype sit off Peterhead — that be a good thing — but it need maintenance , so where do the maintenance happen ? not in Scotland , and not anywhere in the UK ; it have be tow back to Norway . that be the scale of their industrial policy failure ; we know it very well . the Government have not generate the job that british worker deserve , and their fossil fuel policy and net zero roll - back have send a terrible message to investor around the world . this be what Amanda Blanc , the chief executive officer of Aviva and the head of its UK transition plan taskforce , say about oil and gas and the Government ' s position : " this put at clear risk the job , growth and the additional investment the UK require to become more climate - ready . " it be Britain lose the global race in clean energy job that will destroy the future of oil and gas community . the Government have no proper plan for those worker ; Labour do have a proper plan . do my right hon . friend agree that the Bill be an absolute disaster for climate diplomacy , turn diligent negotiator into hypocrite and trash our international negotiation and international reputation ? be it not clear that without proper diplomacy , future generation will be leave with a much more dangerous and less stable world ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . she take I to the fifth and final bad argument that the Government be make for the Bill . will the right hon . member give way ? in a moment . the Government argue that the Bill can somehow be justify on climate ground , which demand a level of absurdity that should make even they deeply embarrassed . let we get this straight . we sign a global agreement at COP28 for a transition away from fossil fuel in line with the science . that science be unequivocal : we must leave the majority of fossil fuel in the ground . but at home , their domestic policy be what they call " maxe out " the North sea . let we get this clear : in the crucial come two year , Ministers will travel around the world to try to turn that COP28 agreement into reality , but how will the conversation go ? the UK Minister will say to other country , " we want you to leave your fossil fuel in the ground , because that be the agreement from COP28 . " the country we be try to persuade will say to we , " hang on a minute . you ' re say we should leave our fossil fuel in the ground , but you ' re plan to extract all your . " what will we say , other than , " yes , the Government be practise total hypocrisy , but please do as we say , not as we do . " that be the truth . the science be unequivocal . I be hope to intervene when the right hon . Gentleman be talk about job and investment , because he quote an awful lot of people . why do he not quote Sir Ian Wood , who say that Labour ' s plan for the North sea oil and gas industry would " place in jeopardy ten of thousand of job " . David Whitehouse , the chief executive of Offshore Energy UK , say that Labour ' s plan would " create a cliff edge " , deter investment and heighten our risk of energy shortage . why do he not mention those people ? I be very happy to talk about Ian Wood . we have a good roundtable with he in Aberdeen in November . I totally accept that it be for a Government of either party to show that there be a proper transition plan . I firmly believe that we can do it , but honestly , the hon . Gentleman know that it be not the case that new licence will somehow guarantee a future for those North sea worker . how could he possibly say that four day ' worth of gas demand in 2050 will guarantee a future for those worker ? the right hon . Gentleman will know that 10 % of our current oil consumption be use in the manufacturing industry — not to be burn but for thing such as lubricant , solvent and electronic component . that do not contribute to greenhouse gas emission . be it acceptable to extract it from UK water ? eighty per cent . of what we get from UK water be export , not use here . we say clearly that we would continue with exist oil and gas field . there must be a transition , and we can not carry on regardless and max out the North sea . I know the right hon . Gentleman care about the climate . it be important to listen to the respected authority on climate . there must be a reason why the International Energy Agency , the Energy Transitions Commission , the Climate Change Committee , the former President of cop26 the right hon . member for Reading West , and Lord Stern all say that the world be genuinely on a burn platform , and unless we address the issue of fossil fuel , we will head not to 1 . 5 ° but to 3 ° of warm . that be the truth . it be incredibly hard , but the idea that we will say , " look , there be a climate crisis ; this will not make any difference to our energy security ; the Energy Secretary say that it will not cut bill ; it be not the answer for the job of the future ; but we will carry on do it anyway " , be climate vandalism . I genuinely say that to the right hon . gentleman . he shadow I 15 year ago , and I know that he care about these issue , along with the right hon . member for Reading West . People who really care about these issue have wrestle with this question . we have listen to the expert and we have think to ourselves , " what do the science tell we on the one hand , and what difference will this make on the other ? " fair - minded people have reach the conclusion that I have reach , as have Lord Stern and all the other authority . I previously raise the progress report from the Climate Change Committee , which say that the Government be off track . the Secretary of State then assure the House that the Government remain extremely ambitious about climate change . do my right hon . friend agree that she must have mean that she support cause climate change , give she be press ahead with new oil and gas licence ? I do not believe that it fulfil the kind of climate leadership that we pride ourselves on in this country . here be another interesting fact for the House . UK Export Finance , I think with the guidance of the right hon . member for Reading West , decide at COP26 that we would not finance oil and gas project abroad . now , there must be a reason why UKEF decide that . presumably , the reason be that we want to make the transition away from fossil fuel . at the same time as UKEF decide not to do that , we will look like hypocrite if we do this by say , " we ' re just go to carry on maxe out at home . " I know there be a lot of other people who want to speak , Mr Deputy Speaker . we have a Bill — rise — oh go on . that be very tempting , so I will give way to the hon . Gentleman . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for give way . he have speak for an awfully long time and I suspect he be come to the end of his speech so that Back Benchers can participate . not one idea have he put on the Floor of the House about what Labour would do be it to take over from we . I will tell the hon . Gentleman exactly what we would do . I be really grateful to he for intervene , but I be sorry he have lengthen my speech . we would establish a national wealth fund to invest in british job to give a future in steel and automotive , and to invest in our port . we would set up GB Energy to generate wealth for our citizen . if it be good enough for country abroad , why be it not good enough for we ? we would insulate home across the country . we would finally lift the disgraceful onshore wind ban that be add £ 180 to every family ' s bill . that be just the start . I do not want to detain the House for too long , but there be plenty more where that come from . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not give way . the truth be that there be two road for Britain ' s future : drive to clean energy by 2030 to cut bill and make we energy independent , and GB Energy to bring job in clean energy here at home and be a climate leader ; or a Government who take the wrong path , cle to expensive and insecure fossil fuel , and make the british people pay the price , as they have for the past 14 year . the truth be that the Bill speak volume about a Government out of idea and embark on that second path . the Bill be one of the last desperate act of a die government . I urge the House to support our reason amendment and vote against the Bill tonight . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I agree with the Secretary of State , who I hold in high regard , that the United Kingdom have be a leader in climate action internationally . we have cut our emission in half over the past 30 year , fast than any other major economy in recent year . we have set ambitious domestic emission reduction target , in particular ahead of cop26 . through our cop26 presidency , we manage to get over 90 % of the global economy sign up to net zero . just about every G20 nation sign up to a net zero commitment . we lead on climate action domestically and we translate that into lead the world on climate action . just a few week ago at COP28 , the UK , alongside other nation , sign up to transition away from fossil fuel . on his return from COP28 , the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) welcome that global agreement from the Dispatch Box . he speak about the importance of listen to the voice of the most climate - vulnerable island nation , who , as we know , want the world to agree to strong language to phase out fossil fuel . indeed , my right hon . friend himself tweet at cop28 : " there must be a phase - out of unabated fossil fuel to meet our climate goal . " I commend the work that he and the whole UK team do in Dubai . but today we have a Bill before the House , the sole purpose of which be to double - down on grant more oil and gas production licence . I do not believe , and it pain I to say this , that the Bill will advance that commitment to transition away from fossil fuel . I also do not believe that those climate - vulnerable nation my right hon . Friend refer to will think the Bill be consistent with the pledge that we , along with every other nation , make in Dubai . as for the substance of the Bill , I think that , as currently draft — and it pain I to say this — it be something of a distraction . I do not think it be necessary . the North Sea Transition Authority can already grant licence annually , or , indeed , when it consider it necessary . it have be do that regularly for the past few year . the Department ' s own explanatory note make that clear by state : " the NSTA will remain free to grant licence outside this new annual duty in the usual way , whether or not the new statutory test be meet . " as for those two statutory test , they seem to override the already non - bind climate compatibility checkpoint , and I have to say that I think they have be design in such a way that the computer will always say yes to new oil and gas licence . overall , the ability of the NSTA to grant new licence will not change materially as a result of the Bill . sadly , however — this be my opinion , and other will have theirs — what the Bill do do be reinforce the unfortunate perception of the UK ' s row back from climate action , as indeed we see last autumn with the chopping and change of some policy , and that do make our international partner question the seriousness with which we take our international commitment . I say " it pain I to say this " because I know that the Government have be come forward , under this Secretary of State , with commitment to try to tackle climate change and deliver on a clean energy transition . we have hear that the Bill be about improve domestic energy security , but I think we all understand that the oil and gas extract from the North sea be own by private enterprise and the Government do not get to control to whom it be sell . moreover , I think it be acknowledge that the Bill would not necessarily low domestic energy bill in the UK , give that the price of oil and gas as a commodity be set internationally . I think that the good way to enhance our energy security , and ultimately bring down bill , be for the Government to continue to deliver on their ambitious plan for expand home - grow clean energy , to which I know the Secretary of State and her Ministers be absolutely committed . that mean more wind power , more solar and more nuclear as part of a diversified clean energy mix , and I back the Secretary of State in the work that she and her team be do in deliver that clean energy mix . we have hear that the Bill will secure 200 , 000 job . of course people ' s job and livelihood matter , and we must ensure that we secure those job , but we must recognise that we be in the process of an energy transition . I support an orderly transition ; for I , this be not about turn off the tap overnight on oil and gas . we must also acknowledge that more than 200 , 000 job , support by the oil and gas industry , have be lose over the past decade , despite hundred of new drilling licence be issue . we know that many of the skill use in the oil and gas sector be transferable to clean energy — to offshore wind and geothermal . if we want to truly turbocharge a clean energy transition , we need to help , support and retrain the worker who be make the transition , over time , from the fossil fuel sector into the many ten of thousand of job that be be create in clean energy as a result of the work that the Secretary of State and her team be do . the right hon . Gentleman be make some powerful point , and I have huge respect for he when it come to this topic . do he agree that we be in real danger of turn off the interest and the investment appetite among many other nation , such as Korea and Japan , which see the UK as have vast expertise in offshore wind development site , and that legislation of this kind will undermine that market ? there be some commentary express concern about investment appetite follow some of the statement that be make in the autumn , but I think we must acknowledge that , over the last few month , the Government have manage to secure billion of pound of extra investment commit within clean energy to the UK . turn to the carbon intensity test for grant new licence , I have to say again that I be not sure that the Government recognise the whole picture of where we get our import from . the majority of the gas that the UK import come via a pipeline from Norway . it be not import LNG . the carbon intensity of norwegian gas production be around half that of UK domestic gas . if that be the test that the Government want to apply in decide whether to issue new licence , I think they should take into account the average carbon intensity of all import gas , not just LNG . give that around 70 % of remain North sea reserve be oil , perhaps the test should also include the carbon intensity of UK - produce oil , which be high than the global average . I put that very point to the Secretary of State in our Select Committee , and her response be that because almost all our oil be export out of the UK for processing , we do not know what its full carbon intensity be . be that not a great example of why our oil be not use in Britain and why this will not help british people ? the Secretary of State have set out her position very clearly and eloquently . I be try to set out my position on the Bill . the Government say that the independent Climate Change Committee ' s own datum show that we be go to need new oil and gas in the decade ahead , but I respectfully say that that be not the same as say that new licence should be grant . the weekend before this Bill be originally due to have its Second reading , the interim chair of the committee put out a tweet to reconfirm the CCC ' s position . he write that " @ thecccuk evidence be that continue expansion of new oil and gas reserve be inconsistent with our climate commitment , especially more so in light of the recent Global Stocktake COP agreement we just sign . " for the reason that I have outline , I will not vote for this Bill today , but assume that it proceed beyond its Second reading , I hope that it will be possible to work with like - minded colleague — and indeed the Government , the Secretary of State and her Ministers — to amend and improve the test that be require to be meet before any new oil and gas production licence be grant in the future . in conclusion , deliver on the UK ' s clean energy transition matter on many level : for job , for inward investment , for low bill , for real energy security and of course for the environment . we see the impact of the change climate around we daily : 2023 be the hot year on record globally , and in recent week many people have face flooding again in our country , include in my own constituency . we really should not need any more wake - up call to put aside the distraction and act with the urgency that the situation demand . the Scottish National party decline to give this Bill a second reading — [ interruption . ] would the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , like to intervene already ? I would be happy to take it . this Bill be as unnecessary — much like the chuntering from a sedentary position — as it be unwelcome . the Prime Minister , no less , claim that these measure would reduce energy bill , but of course that be untrue , and the Secretary of State be well advise to distance herself from that fantasy . it be claim that the Bill will assist with the UK ' s energy security , but of course it will do no such thing , give the combined effect of an international energy market and the vagary of the UK ' s refining capacity , which be increasingly and substantially incompatible with oil extract from the North sea basin . the Government seek to gaslight we with claim that there be strict test to be meet in order to issue any new licence , when in fact these Potemkin test will inevitably be meet for each and every licence application in the future , should the Bill pass . the Bill will not provide an evidence - base assessment of all licence on a case - by - case basis , and as a matter of actual fact , 27 new licence be grant in 2023 alone in the absence of any legislation of this nature and a licensing round have be hold by the North Sea Transition Authority every year and a half since 2016 . this propose legislation will , in effect , undermine the NSTA by place a statutory obligation on it to hold new licensing round every year , rather than as and when it deem they necessary in its professional capacity , as be currently the case . moreover , the NSTA board unanimously agree that the legislation require annual licensing round be unnecessary , but the Government be advance it as a means to guarantee unfettered access to continue hydrocarbon extraction . that be not what we need . the Bill ' s proponent would have we believe that have more licence will deliver low energy bill , but it will achieve no such thing . we all recognise that oil and gas will continue to be an essential part of our energy mix and , as the right hon . member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) say , we use oil and gas — certainly oil — for more than combustible use , so we will need a measured and qualified licensing regime to accommodate an ongoing reliance on oil and gas as a source of energy and much else , but that be not what the Bill propose . the thing that be push up the price of household and commercial energy be not a lack of licensing but the price of gas on the international market that consumer be force to pay not just for heating but for electricity , give the bizarre pricing structure and how the UK be set up to favour gas . that energy pricing disaster be compound by this Government ' s failure to invest properly in alternative such as large - scale , long - duration storage solution , which would dial a considerable amount of gas out of the system and dial down price , too . fourteen year of Tory mismanagement of our energy security have see barely sufficient investment go into renewable generation to meet the demand of the climate emergency , and practically no investment go into the network to transmit this new energy . that mean consumer be deny access to large swathe of cheap , green , renewable energy because of a lack of grid capacity . renewable energy , once switch off , to compensate for a 1960s network , be substitute by gas . I appreciate that the Government be improve and invest in capital infrastructure , but it be 14 year too late . the Bill will not deliver energy security . indeed , the former chief executive of BP , Lord Browne , say that the Government ' s decision to expand North sea drilling be " not go to make any difference " to Britain ' s energy security , and the former head of the NSTA , Andy Samuel , say in 2022 that the introduction of new licence will make a difference only " around the edge " . what we need from the Government be a bold plan to far accelerate the electrification from renewable of our domestic energy market . what we be present with be a backward - look cash grab for Scotland ' s hydrocarbon , which come at the cost of a just transition . Scotland will lose out by have our energy policy dictate by a remote , luddite Westminster Government who be relentlessly focus on the rear - view mirror , rather than on the future and job security . the hon . Gentleman be talk about energy policy be direct by other people . do he share my concern about our continued membership of the energy charter treaty , which mean that any deal sign now will have to be fully remunerate on their potential hope value , not their actual value , even if they be phase out or cancel by a sovereign Britain or by a sovereign Scotland ? I be neutral on the latter issue . do the hon . Gentleman not think that , like our european partner , we should withdraw from the energy charter treaty to allow ourselves true energy independence ? I agree entirely with the hon . Gentleman ' s ambition on the energy charter treaty . it be about time that the Government get off the fence on the issue and make a decision . on job security , let we be clear that this Government care for oil and gas worker in Scotland every bit as much as they care for the miner and the manufacture worker in Scotland who be put to the sword in the 1980 , every bit as much as they care for our service personnel live in squalor , every bit as much as they care about the Post Office staff throw into the privatisation mincer , and every bit as much as they care for junior doctor in England . on my previous intervention , I refer the House to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests on my Falkland Islands trip pay for by the Falkland Islands Government . the hon . Gentleman talk about the miner . in Rother Valley we be hit hard by the closure of the mine , which be why we need a transition . keep the new licence go will make the transition slightly long and keep more people in work . surely it be a good thing to diminish the negative impact that net zero will sometimes have on certain people . the premise of the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention be that by delay thing , and maximise oil and gas production , we somehow maintain this link . we could just as easily deliver the same thing by accelerate the delivery of renewable energy and the infrastructure to transmit it to where it be need . that would have the add benefit of introduce low bill for consumer and industry , and make sure that we be not reliant on petrostate from far away with questionable regime . I be look through the right end of the telescope , whereas the hon . Gentleman and his Government be look through the wrong end . in short , the Tories could not give a fly fig for any worker on these island — as long as their share price remain healthy , to hang with the rest of we . if the question be " how do we protect and transition oil and gas job into renewable energy production ? " , the answer be definitely not to overstimulate unlimited offshore petroleum licensing . accord to industry datum , 441 , 000 job be support by the oil and gas sector in 2013 , but that number have already fall to 215 , 000 — so we be talk about 200 , 000 few job in 2022 . the Government have issue approximately 400 new drilling licence , in five separate licensing round , in that period . the claim that there be a direct and proportionate relationship between the amount of licence issue and the amount of job sustain be entirely spurious . can the hon . Gentleman explain to the House and , importantly , his constituent in Angus , many of whom be employ in the industry , what the Scottish National party ' s current position be on the issuing of new oil and gas licence ? at the moment , do it support they ? or be there be a presumption against they ? what be important be the understanding that we will be reliant on oil and gas . this government be create a false dichotomy between have unlimited new licence and have an oil and gas sector in scottish water and within the UK ; the two thing be not relate in the fashion that they be set out . the hon . Gentleman should be ask why the UK Government will not match the Scottish Government ' s ambition for the just transition and our half a billion - pound of investment , but I will get on to that in a second . rise — be the hon . Gentleman ask whether I be give way ? for clarity — no , I be not . where be the guarantee ringfencing of revenue from North sea oil and gas production to develop more renewable energy and accelerate the just transition ? accelerate the just transition — not unduly sustain legacy energy production — will make the difference and deliver real job with sustainability , in term of both the carbon output and how those job will last into the future . where be that support ? the Government have claim that the circa £ 50 billion in tax revenue over the next five year " could " be use to support the shift to clean form of energy — we be use to jam tomorrow from this Government — but any other form of fiscal revenue could be use to support the future development of renewable . the vacuous observation that the Government have make be so unconnected to reality , unconditioned and unqualified as to be meaningless . it would have be an uncharacteristically elegant solution for this Government to have ringfence future oil and gas revenue for the green transition , to marry the endowment of the legacy hydrocarbon industry to the priming of the pump of opportunity of the next renewable industry , but this Government be at least consistent in their ability to disappoint . to the casualty of the climate from this Bill , which be an inevitable consequence of this course of action , we can add the pace of delivery for the new net zero economy opportunity in Scotland . when oil and gas opportunity go to a plateau of exhaustion in Scotland , as everyone know they will , what will be leave in the cupboard to support community such as those in Banff and Buchan , Angus , West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine , and elsewhere in the north - east of Scotland ? why be the revenue from the historical exploitation of oil and gas not go into accelerate renewable opportunity and make sure that we deliver job for the future ? as I say in response to the intervention by the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) , the Scottish Government have invest £ 500 million into the green transition for Scotland — [ interruption . ] well , unlike anything to do with this Bill , that funding be allocate and be there to be invest . I will tell you why , Mr Deputy Speaker , this Government be nervous of that figure : because if the UK be to match Scotland ' s ambition in the just transition , it would be £ 5 billion across the UK , but we see no such commitment , vision or climate ambition . what we see be a Tory Prime Minister who can not effectively lead his party , let alone the UK state or an energy transition , seek to divide people on the climate , and roll back on climate action commitment and signal give to industry on electric vehicle and boiler replacement , while over - exploit Scotland ' s legacy hydrocarbon and drag his foot on carbon capture , usage and storage , especially Acorn . the picture be reveal even for those with the large blinker . the hallmark of failure be stamp on this Tory Government , who will politicise anything , even the climate consensus , in a vain attempt to stem their electoral destruction . the Bill fail to outline a transition away from fossil fuel as per the agree resolution at COP28 , on which the ink be barely dry . the UK delegation sign up to that agreement in the full knowledge of this Bill ' s impend passage . we all know that the UK have a questionable approach to its international obligation , but this be plain bad faith . finally , the Bill do not acknowledge the climate emergency . in fact , with this Bill the Tory Government be thumb their nose at the climate challenge that we all face together and should address together . in the Bill , the Government seek to over - capitalise on legacy energy production rather than invest in the renewable energy job of the future . much of that employment and enterprise will be in demand mitigation , with thermal insulation , equipment upgrade and new technology . as a result of the ambition that drive the Bill and the warped thinking behind it , job , the economy , bill payer and the climate will suffer , so I urge member to decline to give it a second reading . energy production , either offshore in the form of oil and gas production and offshore wind , or on the coast in the form of nuclear , be of specific interest to the Waveney constituency that I represent . the oil and gas industry have be a significant employer locally for nearly 60 year , one of the large cluster of offshore windfarm in the world be locate off the East Anglian coast , and Sizewell C will bring significant job - creation opportunity to the area . to realise the full potential of the opportunity , both nationally and locally , we need the right policy , fiscal and regulatory framework that satisfy the three criterion of energy security , affordability and decarbonisation . it be also necessary to provide investor with the confidence and certainty to invest in the UK . it should be bear in mind that the market for energy capital be global , footloose and highly competitive . it be against that backdrop that we should judge the Bill . there be reason for support it , but we must not lose sight of the need for long - term stability and consistency in energy policy that be require to attract the enormous amount of private investment that we need to modernise and decarbonise our energy system and to make it more secure and resilient . I chair the all - party parliamentary group for the british offshore oil and gas industry , and I highlight three factor that should be bear in mind in set energy policy . first , we be move away from business , wherever they be in the supply chain , that specialise in a particular sector , whether that be oil and gas , offshore wind , carbon capture or hydrogen . such business be increasingly become all - energy company that work in a range of different sector . secondly , as I have mention , many such business be globally footloose and will operate anywhere in the world . if we have policy , regulatory and fiscal regime that be continuously flip - flopping , they will go elsewhere . thirdly , it should be emphasise that the vast majority of these company — I highlight those operate in East Anglia — be commit to net zero . they regard it as both a moral and a legal obligation from which we should not be distract . as I have mention , there be reason to support the Bill and I shall briefly highlight they . first , our energy policy be determine by the trinity of energy security , affordability and decarbonisation . recent geopolitical event , in particular the russian invasion of Ukraine and the conflict in the middle east , have create major concern with regard to security of supply and unpredictability of price . we have feel the backlash of the latter very harshly in the past two year and its impact have hit hard the poor and most vulnerable . it be against that backdrop that it be sensible for the UK to be more energy independent and to use our own energy supply — whether that be offshore wind , nuclear or oil and gas . secondly , we need to reduce our reliance on oil and gas , and , indeed , we have make good progress in do so , as the UK have decrease oil production by 66 % since 2003 . at the turn of the century , we be produce 4 . 5 million barrel of oil equivalent per day . today , that figure be below 1 . 5 million and still fall . however , we still rely on oil and gas for much of our energy need and shall continue to do so , albeit on a significantly decline trajectory in the come decade . it be in that context that it be logical to use our own oil and gas . it should be point out , as other have do , that the carbon footprint of domestic gas production be around a quarter of that associate with import and energy - intensive liquefy natural gas . thirdly , at a time of global economic uncertainty as well as geopolitical instability , we need to have in mind the huge benefit that the oil and gas industry bring to our country . domestic oil and gas production provide many job and add approximately £ 16 billion to the UK economy each year , while tax receipt be significant — £ 33 . 7 billion since 2010 and an estimate £ 50 billion over the next five year . fourthly , as I have mention , today ' s energy company operate across a variety of sector and there be a risk that , if we close down the North sea too quickly , we will imperil investment in new low - carbon sector . many company invest in nascent opportunity require a cash flow from a stable and predictable oil and gas business . moreover , freedom to explore can be a major driver for investment on the UK continental shelf not only in oilfield and gasfield , but in carbon capture and hydrogen production . close the door on exploration reduce the option value of the UK as a destination for overall investment . finally , it should be point out that most of the new licence that would be grant be near field adjoin exist one . that mean that there would be a lower incremental emission intensity as production will take place use exist facility . it be important to emphasise that the Bill be not a panacea for the future of the North sea . there be other work that the Government must carry out alongside it . one of the most notable achievement of the Conservative Government in recent year be the creation in 2016 of the Oil and Gas Authority , which now operate as the North Sea Transition Authority . it be a regulatory authority that have achieve a great deal and that have also recognise the vital importance of net zero . the NSTA ' s great advantage over its predecessor , which be embed in the Department of Energy and Climate Change , be its independence of Government . there be a worry that the Bill undermine that independence , and I hope that , in his sum up , my right hon . friend the Minister will take on board and allay that concern . the Government should also consider provide the NSTA with an enhanced role . as the transition have become centre stage to the authority ' s work , the authority have take on additional regulatory responsibility — for carbon capture , usage and storage and hydrogen . consideration should be give to add to that the oversight of the emerge geothermal sector , an increase focus on the offshore energy supply chain and maximise the future use by low - carbon technology of the infrastructure that have be lay down in the North sea over the past 60 year . we be at time in danger of talk glibly about a just transition and the creation of new job . we can help to achieve that in a meaningful way by focus more strategically on skill and infrastructure . I be mindful that the regulatory space on the UK continental shelf be crowded . as well as the NSTA , other organisation , such as the Marine Management Organisation and the Crown Estate , be carry out important work . we must ensure that all that work be properly co - ordinated , be effective in its precautionary objective , and be not so overly bureaucratic as to deter investment . I mention that the majority of business work in the North sea be commit to the transition . yes , they want the Government to be realistic and pragmatic about the future of the domestic oil and gas industry , but they be also ambitious . they want to be part of an industry that be in the vanguard of the transition from fossil fuel to renewable — global leader on the road to net zero . that should mean , for example , a more ambitious climate compatibility checkpoint , and bring forward the ban on routine venting and flaring . the Bill have merit , but it need to be accompany by other measure , some of which I have outline , to maximise the enormous amount of private investment that be require to decarbonise . we also need to dispel any false notion among investor about the UK ' s commitment to deliver on our net zero target . as the Government have state , there be a need for pragmatism , proportionality and realism , but that must be accompany by ambition , consistency and clarity . I be very concerned that the Bill will do much more harm than good . member should not be fool that it will help with energy price or our commitment to net zero . the Energy Secretary be quote as say that new production of oil and gas " wouldn ' t necessarily bring energy bill down " but could do so " indirectly " if the money raise in taxis be then use for renewable energy project . I do not understand the logic of that . countless people , include many of my constituent , be in desperate need of low energy bill , and be struggle to make end meet because of the endless price hike , which the Government have do little to abate . I do not believe that the Bill will have any impact on that . if the Secretary of State know that renewable be the answer , why be she not prioritise they rather than push forward with this illogical and damage Bill ? bad than not prioritise they , she be make the situation bad . Ernst & Young have find that the UK have become a less attractive place to invest in renewable , partly due to a recent " diminishing of green policy " . currently , three quarter of North sea oil and gas operator invest nothing in UK renewable . although we will all end up deal with the consequence of climate change , it be other nation ’ home and livelihood that will be destroy first . the International Development Committee , which I chair , conduct a report on debt relief that find that low - income country be more vulnerable to loss and damage from climate change than high - income country , even though they contribute the tiniest proportion of emission . in our current inquiry into small island develop state , we have hear that SIDS be particularly at risk from climate shock . in this century alone , two SIDS could disappear forever due to rise sea level . low - income country be be force to pay for damage that they do not cause and have the least ability to cope with . meanwhile , the Conservative Government want to hand out more licence in the North sea with no regard for how that could impact other country , our own climate financing , or marine life . there be currently no provision in the Bill to exempt marine protect area from oil and gas exploration . I find that an extraordinary omission . it be absolutely crucial that no MPAs be put at risk because of the Bill . by ignore that , the Government be jeopardise their own Environment Act 2021 target and their commitment to protect nature effectively in 30 % of the sea by 2030 under the global biodiversity framework . mpa be design to safeguard some of the most vulnerable marine habitat and specie from irreversible damage . as it stand , only 8 % of english mpa offer effective protection for nature , and 56 % of feature within they have be assess as already be in an unfavourable condition , and that be before the Bill go forward . how will the Government enhance the exist mpa when they can not even guarantee that they will not be destroy by this nonsensical Bill ? an effective MPA framework would ensure that UK sea perform their vital function in the fight against climate change and boost biodiversity , which be essential for a functioning and sustainable fishing industry . it would improve the resilience of marine specie to change condition and would continue to support the economic and recreational activity that be essential to so many people in the UK . all those benefit would be jeopardise by allow oil and gas drilling within mpa . the Bill must be amend to ensure that mpa be completely off the table when oil - and - gas search and production block be consider . whether it be oil spill , underwater noise pollution or the direct destruction of habitat , there be no doubt that there will be a severe risk of harm to individual creature across population of marine wildlife and , ultimately , of disrupt entire ecosystem . yet it appear the Government be happy to do that if it mean even more profit for private industry . we be suppose to be a leader on the global stage . we sign up to the Paris agreement and agree to loss and damage fund , but this Government be destroy our international reputation and any ability they may have have to encourage other country to fulfil their climate obligation . it sadden I that it have come to this , and I urge the Government to think again , listen to their own mp , especially the wise word of the right hon . member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) , and stop the Bill now . it be an honour to speak in the debate about the oil and gas sector , the industry and the job that rely on it . certainly , in my Moray constituency , many people be employ in the sector . they travel through to Aberdeen to go off shore , and it be a regular commute for many people . that be the case in town and village throughout Moray , such as Buckie . since I have be able to get Buckie into this debate on oil and gas , it hopefully allow I the opportunity to put on the record my appreciation to the club for an outstanding match against Glasgow Celtic yesterday at Parkhead in the scottish cup . they sadly lose 5 - 0 , but it be an outstanding game for the highland league team . Graeme Stewart and his player do not just do the club , the highland league community and Buckie proud , they come away with an absolute host of new fan , because of what they achieve over the week since that game first come into the public domain . it have be great to see cup fever in Buckie and to see stalwart of the club , such as Annie Jappy and Sandra Paterson , recognise for everything they have do for the club over many year . I be sure the congratulation of everyone in the House go to Buckie Thistle on their achievement . I of course join my hon . friend in congratulate Buckie Thistle , but will he answer just one question : which side play in the home strip ? of course , they both play in green and white hoop . celtic play in green and white , and Buckie be in yellow . as I say , this be an important debate for many town , village and community in Moray , because a large number of people live in that area be employ in the oil and gas sector . it be important for my constituent in Moray , and I have be clear that it be right that we continue to grant new oil and gas licence to continue the exploration in the North sea while there be still a demand that need to be supply , but people will be leave wonder what be the current position of the SNP . that be why I put a very direct question to the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) . normally at this point I would say that I will give way to any SNP Member willing to intervene if they be able to answer , but there be only one here . would the hon . gentleman like to intervene and say very simply , to the people of Angus and the people of Scotland , what his party ' s position be and what his personal position be ? do the SNP support the granting of new oil and gas licence — yes or no ? I thank the hon . gentleman for this opportunity to reiterate what I say previously . there be a fundamental understanding of the ongoing role of oil and gas in meet our energy need . whether that be deal with and satisfied through exist licence or future licence be a moot point , and I will tell he why : I have already demonstrate , in as simple term as I can , that the implication that there be a direct and proportional link between job security and licence issue be spurious . I be aware of the point he be try to make , but he be not make it well . I have tell he what the situation be , and he can either like it or lump it . I would just like an answer . I have try twice , and that be as clear as mud . I think people look at that answer will actually be unable to tell what the hon . Gentleman ' s personal position be and what the SNP ' s position be . that be really important . maybe it be tell that only one SNP MP have turn up to a debate about the oil and gas sector — have you see the weather ? I have see the weather . I see the weather when I leave Inverness airport at 6 . 45 this morning . I know what the weather be like in Scotland , but it be important that when we be debate the oil and gas industry , which be crucial to Scotland and the United Kingdom , the SNP can find only one MP to turn up . do the hon . Gentleman accept that for the 90 , 000 employee of the oil and gas industry in Scotland and the 200 , 000 across the United Kingdom , an answer that say it be a moot point be hardly the right one to give ? it look more like a mute position adopt by some of the opposition member in this debate . I absolutely agree with the right hon . Gentleman . People should watch closely what the hon . member for Angus say on his own behalf and on behalf of the SNP — as I say , SNP mp be speak with their action tonight by not even turn up to the debate . opponent of this Bill — the Labour party , the SNP and other — try to present our energy transition and support for oil and gas as a binary choice . they say that we can not achieve our net zero goal while at the same time support new oil and gas licence and project , but nothing could be far from the truth . the oil and gas sector in Scotland and across the UK be essential to deliver and achieve net zero . the investment in green energy infrastructure that will allow we to build our renewable capacity be come from the revenue from oil and gas extraction . the business that be look to expand offshore wind and the windfarm for tomorrow be stay solvent today because of their revenue from North sea oil and gas . the people with the skill and expertise that we have hear about throughout this debate , which will be require to secure our offshore renewable go forward , work in our oil and gas sector today . that be why it be so important that I make the point to the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) that people such as Sir Ian Wood be say that Labour ' s plan and the cliff edge that Labour would impose on the sector would see job loss . that be why that position be frankly unacceptable and be not support by many people , if any , in the north - east of Scotland . the business , the investment and the job that make Scotland and the UK a world leader in oil and gas be the same skill , business and job that be go to drive forward the green agenda and our renewable future . we can not have one without the other . we can not tell investor , business and worker who pause their plan for the UK ' s energy infrastructure due to an artificial ban on new field to come back when the green technology have become cheap or more viable , because those investor , those business and those worker will go elsewhere . I say to the hon . member for Angus that that be not a moot point . that be the reality if we do not continue with the exploration of oil and gas in the North sea and the granting of new licence . I be sure that my hon . friend will join I in welcome the vast number of offshore wind project be develop off the coast of our respective constituency — as well as that of the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) — and the operation and maintenance facility in Buckie in his constituency and Fraserburgh in mine , which be entirely dependent on those offshore wind facility . as much as people from the oil and gas industry be move into they , there be just not enough of those job to make up for those that we would lose in oil and gas . do he agree that a lot of the people who work in oil and gas would not go to renewable if there be no oil and gas job , but would just go where there be oil and gas overseas ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . we have a base at Buckie harbour that be support a number of job and will continue to do so for decade to come — it be a small number of job at the moment , with opportunity to grow — but at the moment the vast majority of the workforce be employ in the oil and gas sector . I agree with he that they will go elsewhere , shift their job and expertise to other country , and another city will become Europe ' s offshore energy capital . that would be devastating not just for our net zero ambition and for Aberdeen , but for the economy of Scotland and the UK as a whole . we have already hear in the debate that 90 , 000 scottish worker be employ in North sea oil and gas . it have be for decade , and will continue to be for some time to come , one of the most important sector in Scotland ' s economy . yet I believe that it be the position of the SNP — it would be if more SNP Members than just the hon . member for Angus have turn up to state their case — to put those job on the scrapheap . the SNP want to have a cliff edge in our oil and gas sector and exploration because it be in government with the Greens in the Scottish Parliament . it be support Green Ministers who want an immediate end to the extraction of fossil fuel from the north - east , and that be put those 90 , 000 job , and the Scottish and UK economy , at risk . that be view extremely dimly in many part of Scotland , particularly the north - east , which the hon . member for Angus represent . it be a bit rich listen to a Scottish Tory MP talk about the bountiful experience of North sea oil and gas for Scotland . if we have be independent in the ' 70 , we would be embarrassingly well off compare with our neighbour elsewhere in these island . the hon . Member say that we want to throw worker in the oil and gas industry in Scotland under a bus , and that we want to see a " cliff edge " where those job disappear . what be his evidence for that ? we be invest in a just transition . whereas he be try to pursue an endurance of legacy opportunity for employment , we want to turbocharge new opportunity for job over 150 to 200 year . my evidence be very clear ; in fact , it be the hon . Gentleman ' s own word . when he can not even tell this House or his constituent about the SNP ' s position on the presumption of new oil and gas licence , that be an answer in itself — not a moot point . the SNP clearly do not support it , and he can not quite find the word to say it yet . that be the SNP position because it be in office with the Greens in Holyrood , and they be increasingly abandon the north - east oil and gas sector and the job that rely on it . as I say , that be view extremely dimly not just in the north - east but right across Scotland . nobody be talk about turn off oil and gas tap overnight — nobody ; not even just stop oil — so will the hon . Gentleman cut the amount of rubbish come out of his mouth ? he be criticise people who be not here in any number to be able to defend themselves . why do he not focus on his own record rather than attack other in such an erroneous way ? it be not erroneous , because we know that the co - leader of the Scottish Greens , Patrick Harvie , have say that he would like to stop oil and gas exploration overnight . that be the Green position : they do not want oil and gas to come out of the North sea , and that will affect job there right now . that be the point that I , and indeed other hon . member , have be make . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I have already give way to the hon . Lady , and I can see that she have copious note in her hand , so she will be contribute to the debate . I have already take some time , so I will continue my speech . the SNP will put those job on the scrapheap and turn its back on the north - east of Scotland . yet , at the same time , Humza Yousaf be tell the people of Scotland that oil and gas revenue will pay for an independent Scotland . the SNP do not want to take the oil and gas out , but it want to get the benefit to pay for fail public service in Scotland , which it have let down during its 17 year in power . of course , Labour and Scottish Labour be also opposed to the Bill . frankly , it be quite derisory that msp and the Scottish Labour party will not stand up for the north - east of Scotland and will allow those job , skill and the expertise gain over decade to be lose . the stark reality be that the opposition party be put ten of thousand of scottish job at risk , and put the UK ' s energy security in jeopardy when we need it most . when illiberal , violent regime such as Putin ' s Russia be use energy resource as a means of fund their destructive war , we can not close our eye and ear and pretend it be not happen . the UK will still have a demand for oil and gas product — and not just in energy but , as we have hear , in plastic and medicine , to name just a few . that demand will not go away in an instant ; many of the home that rely on those product and heating will require they for many year to come . why should we not try to deliver on as much of that demand as we can through domestic production ? import our energy will only increase emission far and help those intent on manipulate energy market for malign purpose . I urge member to support the Bill . let we secure the UK ' s energy future and deal a blow to the regime that be intent on use energy as a weapon . let we protect our economy and the livelihood of ten of thousand of scottish and british family across the country . let we choose common sense — a practical transition to net zero — not naivety and wishful thinking . let the Labour and SNP Members present explain in their speech why they will join together to try to vote down the Bill and the opportunity that oil and gas will continue to bring Scotland and the UK for decade to come . I rise to oppose the Government ' s Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill , for which there be absolutely no need . it will do nothing to bring down people ' s energy bill , either domestic or business , and will severely damage the UK ' s reputation in the world . moreover , as I understand it , production from the new field would be export . when Labour be in government , I be privileged to have the opportunity to work with my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) on the Climate Change Act 2008 — a ground - break world first that lead the way on tackle climate change . my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) become the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change , and he work hard not only on renewable at home but on ensure that the UK be take the lead on the world stage in respect of climate change . now , just as there have be grow consensus around the globe on the urgent need to tackle climate change , it seem that we have a Government who no long want to give that leadership . even petroleum - produce country such as Oman be now invest heavily in renewable , but we have a Prime Minister who be not even sure if he want to attend cop meeting , we have vacuous anti - green rhetoric , and now we have this Bill . it make the UK look ridiculous on the world stage , not to say hypocritical , that with our proud history of urge other nation to do more to tackle climate change and reduce reliance on fossil fuel — and sign agreement to that effect , include recently at COP28 — the UK be now prioritise a Bill to promote the exploration of more oilfield with production at who know what future date . what the Government should be do be prioritise the roll - out of renewable . so often during oral question we hear the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero boast about the roll - out of renewable , but he should reflect on how much more the UK could and should have do by now . first , there be the wind farm ban in England . even now , when the Government talk as if they be plan to lift the ban , the situation be completely ambiguous , and they have not promote wind power enthusiastically . just think : if there have not be a ban in England , we would have have additional capacity on top of what Wales and Scotland provide , near to the big centre of population . we all know that the Government have not move fast enough to strengthen the national grid to transport the electricity from the wind farm where it be produce to the centre of population . then , we have the fiasco of the last auction process — allocation round 5 — where the Government do not receive a single bid for float offshore wind because of their stubborn refusal to sit down with the industry and recognise the huge impact of inflation , and the need to alter the price structure accordingly . the Irish Government listen to the industry and conduct a successful auction . we also see the complacency of the Minister , the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , when he come to this House and say , " oh , well , there ' s another chance to bid for next year " , lose valuable time and send worrying signal to the industry about the Government ' s commitment to develop float offshore wind . as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , investor now lack confidence in invest in the UK because they simply do not know which direction this government be go in . I could go on . we could have see a lot more progress on solar and marine technology — those be some of the thing the Government could be do if they listen to the industry , instead of waste time on this Bill . the UK Marine Energy Council have identify the barrier to the roll - out of tidal stream energy : a lack of clarity on future support , which be damage investor confidence ; a consenting process that be slow and onerous ; a lack of innovation funding ; the cost of set up supply chain ; and a lack of grid capacity . the same could be say about many other emerge renewable technology , and that be where the Government ' s energy should be concentrate , not on this ridiculous Bill . on electrification of the railway , when Labour leave government in 2010 , there be plan to electrify the line from London to Swansea . we then have the ridiculous pantomime of the Tories cancel Cardiff to Swansea , reinstate it , and cancel it again . the right hon . member for Carmarthen West and South Pembrokeshire ( Simon Hart ) , who be then Secretary of State for Wales and be now the Chief Whip , say that electrification be pointless as the nature of the track mean that train would not go any fast , but that completely miss the point . as anyone who have be in the square in front of the station in Cardiff know , the pollution , the carbon emission and the noise from the diesel engine tell we exactly why we should be push on with electrification : to reduce our emission . instead , we have this Bill to extract more oil and gas from the North sea , rather than move away by produce renewable and ensure that our industry and our transport can operate on clean energy . that be what the Government ' s priority should be . as for job , the people work in the oil and gas industry have valuable skill , and we must make absolutely sure that they have the opportunity to move across to other , similar industry : renewable and infrastructure . for that , the Government need a clear industrial strategy and to provide proper retrain opportunity for those who need to do so . of course , the way to improve job opportunity be to ramp up the speed and scale of renewable development . there be a question early about labour ' s policy . I will not detain member by read all 22 page of our plan to make the UK a renewable energy superpower , which can be find on our website , but to be brief , we be absolutely committed to slash people ' s energy bill by make the UK a renewable energy superpower , create the new green job of the future and ensure a just transition . if we win the next election , we will create great British Energy to be a publicly own champion of clean energy generation . we have plan for a national wealth fund that would invest alongside the private sector in the job of the future , such as in clean steel plant , and our plan be underpin by a proper industrial strategy that will give investor confidence . on that note , I suggest that the Government drop this Bill , and turn their attention and energy to develop our renewable sector and make sure we can proudly lead the world on a just transition to a fossil - free world . we all want a healthy planet and a sustainable future for the next generation , but no one want the heating to go off , the light to go out , or our energy security to be at the mercy of foreign player in an ever more unstable world . this Bill recognise that do nothing and increase our reliance on import gas , include gas with four time the emission , be not the solution . as such , I be glad that the Government acknowledge the need to move away from oil and gas production , and I welcome our long - term commitment to drive down the use of fossil fuel and the significant and grow investment in the renewable sector , which be the only way to guarantee our energy security for the future — but it be for the future . as a country , we be now home to five of the large offshore wind farm in the world , diversify our energy supply and reduce our reliance on fossil fuel . renewable gain enough power in 2022 to avoid the need for five time as much gas as the UK import from Russia in 2021 . however , as we discuss the Bill , we should reflect on how we make that transition while preserve our reputation as a global leader in the fight against climate change . I be keen to see further effort to reassure the international community , and our constituent who care about the environment , that we be not row back on our climate and environmental commitment . our current requirement be low than recommend pathway to reach net zero , so I suggest that we continue to strengthen the operational emission requirement for UK oil and gas producer . a recent report from Robert Gordon University find that 90 % of the UK ' s oil and gas workforce have skill that be transferable to the offshore renewable sector . a well - manage transition help ensure that more investment , and more of those job , stay in the UK . opposition Members have no plan . Labour and the SNP be ignore the country ' s energy need in their opposition to the Bill , which seek to enable a transition pathway for an industry that , last year , produce an average of 42 % of gas on an average day in Britain . without new development , we will be more reliant on import , which be unwise at well give the instability in the european market as a result of Putin ' s war . labour talk about expand renewable and reduce usage through measure such as insulation . the Government share that ambition , but it be impossible to deliver at speed and in area such as Stoke - on - trent — [ interruption . ] if Opposition member will listen , I will give they the reason why . there be many terrace house in those area , where the cost of insulate a property to the high energy performance certificate standard can be great than the value of that property . for that reason , there need to be a broad discussion about housing — I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I recently visit Norway with the Conservative Environment Network to see how that country be use the skill and expertise of the oil and gas industry to develop a carbon capture and storage facility at the Northern Lights project . for the world to achieve the goal to which we have commit ourselves in the Paris agreement , we need large - scale carbon capture and storage . not all emission can be cut by apply renewable energy . oil and gas will be need for the foreseeable future ; however , reduce fossil fuel demand be key to reach net zero . in several industrial process , such as the production of cement , carbon capture and storage be the only technology that can cut emission , reduce the need for import energy , and benefit household through less volatile — and , ultimately , low — energy cost . the hon . Lady talk about the enormous cost of insulation , but be she clear that carbon capture and storage be also enormously expensive ? I be clear that lot of thing have a cost , but we must also look at the cost of not do they . we be not talk purely about financial cost . to return to what I learn from my trip to Norway , about a fifth of emission from North sea oil and gas production activity come from flare . we could follow Norway ' s ban on those activity — I be sure the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) would agree with that — use the Bill to bring forward our commitment to stop flare . will the hon . Lady give way ? I would like to get on , if the hon . Lady do not mind . [ interruption . ] she be chuntere from a sedentary position . remove gas be necessary for safety ; however , it can be capture rather than burn . that be my argument . we be in the midst of a paradigm shift in the production , storage and supply of energy , and we be face with a range of innovative option to decarbonise while maintain an adequate energy supply and reduce usage . none of this will happen overnight , and while we welcome the possibility of innovation such as less energy wastage through battery storage , alternative fuel such as hydrogen , future solution such as the expansion of nuclear and alternative such as tidal and geothermal energy , we do need this transition position . I will be support the Bill on Second Reading , but on Report I will look at possibility for reconfirm our commitment to minimise environmental damage and continue focus on the end game of clean solution to our energy need . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . Mr Deputy Speaker , I know you be not around at the time , but you will know that the stone age do not end because of a lack of stone , and the oil age will not end because of a lack of oil . it will end because decent people of all political persuasion , such as the former right hon . member for Kingswood , be farsighte enough to recognise and brave enough to stand up against the vested interest that would consign our child and the natural world to a costly , disruptive and , frankly , terrify future . he be right to say that history will judge harshly those who continue down the reckless fossil fuel path that this Bill represent . this Bill be found upon a lie — in fact , several lie . the Government say it will safeguard our domestic energy supply and boost investment ; it will not . they say it will enhance our energy security and reduce our dependence on import from overseas ; it will not . the truth be that it be a political distraction that will reduce investment in and delay our transition to the clean energy that be the only sustainable and secure future both for our country and for the global community . this Bill be not a credible plan to fix Britain ' s broken energy system ; it be a sad attempt to sew division and polarise our politic . it show that the Government have give up govern and be out of step with the british people ' s priority . when 6 million people live in fuel poverty and when 4 , 700 people die last winter as a result of live in cold , damp home , this Bill fall well below what our constituent deserve . as the world ' s hot year on record be conclude , nearly 200 country agree at COP28 to transition away from fossil fuel . the contrast between the promise make in Dubai and what the Government seek to do today could not be more profound , nor more depressing . by invite Parliament to enable annual licensing round for offshore oil and gas extraction , the Government be fail to understand that to transition away from fossil fuel , we have to stop produce they . the Government argue , " but it be still a decline field . " " this simply slow the rate of decline , " they say . the problem be that it also slow the rate of investment in a just transition that will unleash the power of wind , solar , tidal and energy efficiency . the North sea be a decline basin . its reserve be predominantly oil , not gas . between now and 2050 , new licence be expect to provide just 103 day of gas , which be four day of gas on average each year . the Government know that once oil and gas be license , it belong to the company that hold the licence . as the Government recently admit to my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) , 80 % of UK oil reserve be send abroad by these company and sell on the international market to the high bidder . no wonder the former executive director of BP say last year that the Government ' s decision to expand North sea drilling be " not go to make any difference " to Britain ' s energy security . if the Government ' s ambition be to minimise gas import , there be a very simple solution — insulate home . the good way to cut import be to reduce domestic fossil fuel consumption by build renewable and insulate home . this would have the additional benefit of reduce people ' s energy bill and tackle fuel poverty . by channel investment into oil and gas , the Government be head precisely in the wrong direction . I do not deny that there be a role for exist oil and gas , but it be in the journey to a clean energy economy . what there be not a role for be the production of new oil and gas . we already know that to stand a 50 % chance of keep below the 1 . 5 ° threshold , 90 % of the world ' s coal reserve and 60 % of oil and gas reserve would have to stay in the ground . be the hon . member aware of this ? he mention the pathway to the 1 . 5 ° target , and the IEA ' s description of what be require be a 3 % to 4 % reduction in oil and gas production year on year between now and 2050 . do he agree with the assessment of the NSTA itself , which expect that , even with the new oil and gas licence , North sea oil and gas be predict to decline by 7 % , or twice that amount ? I be well aware of that — of course I be — but the hon . Member will have hear the discussion that take place early about global leadership . he will know that other country around the world be not decline at the require rate , and leadership be about take a lead . the logic of drill for more when the world have already more than it can safely burn be that of the myopic salesman , not the visionary politician , or to use the Prime Minister ' s word , it be the logic of the zealot . the Government ' s action be already make the UK a less attractive place for green investment . three quarter of all North sea oil and gas operator currently invest nothing at all in UK renewable . the large operator , Harbour Energy , have rule out such clean investment altogether , yet last year the five oil super - major — BP , Shell , Chevron , ExxonMobil and TotalEnergies — reward their investor with record payout of more than £ 79 billion , so we know the money be there to do it . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? the Minister be ask whether I will give way . the right hon . Member have long confuse the scoring of party political point with the ability to debate an issue to arrive at the truth and get decent policy out the other end . however , if he have change the habit of a lifetime , I will happily give way to he . I thank the hon . Gentleman . he mention a specific company , Harbour Energy , and it be absolutely invest in the Viking carbon capture centre and play a positive role . that be true of the whole oil and gas supply chain in this country , which the hon . Gentleman , if he go to visit they , would find be work right across the energy sector . weaken one part , as he would with no new licence , would damage the new clean emerge sector , too . I recognise the work that Harbour Energy be do and I also recognise the work that the Government have do in try to attract more investment into green energy and renewable , and I welcome that work . I want we to have a cross - party consensus around get to net zero . the trouble be that — and the Minister know this to be true — he and many people on his side , include the Prime Minister , have try to make this a wedge issue , a political issue to divide people . I think he really do need to step up to the plate . if he want cross - party consensus , he have to try to build it , not score cheap political point . the Liberal Democrats be actually introduce an amendment to stop flare and venting of methane . the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) have just say it would be a very good thing to do yet the Government oppose it . that be an example of where we could have reach cross - party consensus . the hon . Lady be absolutely correct , and I listen to her attempt to intervene on the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) . we need to build a cross - party consensus and this show how it can be achieve : there be concerned member on the Government Benches who want to do the right thing , and we all know that sometimes the whip make sure that they do not , but if we really build this consensus , we can get to the right place . another lie at the heart of this Bill be to say it will protect british job . it will not . over the year there have be hundred of thousand of job in the oil and gas sector and its supply chain . they have keep our light on and our industry move for decade just as the coalminer do before they . but pretend that employment in oil and gas can last forever fail to properly prepare those worker and their family for the inevitable transition that the world be make . despite sustained support for the North sea basin over the past 14 year and despite 400 new drilling licence be issue across five separate licensing run , the fact be that more than 200 , 000 job in the oil and gas industry and its wide supply network have be lose . today 30 , 000 hard - work people be directly employ in the industry . those worker and the local economy they uphold need a coherent plan to move past fossil fuel production towards clean energy . the trouble be the Government have not develop one . a further 100 , 000 individual be support through the supply chain and be wait for a signal from Government so that they can seize the opportunity of the clean energy revolution . this Bill offer they nothing . it seem to override the already weak non - bind climate compatibility checkpoint . the production emission reduction target set out in the North sea transition deal be already weak , set a cut of only 50 % by 2030 . this Bill seem to weaken it even far . it include no reference to how annual licensing will be judge against the NSTD target for production emission let alone emission from combustion . critically , the Bill ignore the wide environmental consequence of the development of new field and put marine habitat at risk . over one third of the 900 location in the late licensing round overlap with marine protect area , yet this directly contradict the commitment the UK make at the convention on biological diversity conference COP15 in Montreal where we promise to protect 30 % of UK water for nature by 2030 . the Rosebank field that be recently license see a pipeline run through the Faroe - Shetland marine protect area , which threaten ocean life . if a major oil spill from Rosebank be to happen , 20 mpa could be seriously impact . this Bill be an attack on nature both by its indirect impact through increase emission and its direct impact on the marine environment . the Government appear to believe that they know well than the International Energy Agency , the United Nations Secretary - General , the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and hundred of the world ' s lead scientist , all of whom be clear that new oil and gas licence jeopardise far the goal of 1 . 5 ° C . this Parliament ' s own independent adviser , the Climate Change Committee , confirm to Parliament only last year that the expansion of fossil fuel production be not in line with net zero and that the oil and gas field that be require in the UK as we make that journey to net zero do not require the development of any new field . but what I find most depressing about this Bill be not its arrogance or its ignorance , it be the way it seek to break with the cross - party consensus for the sake of create a party political dividing line in advance of a general election . that divide line pretend that the rational , inform scientific view be hold only by what the Prime Minister call climate zealot and it try to establish the recalcitrant fossil fuel lobby that be endanger all we hold dear across the globe as the reasonable middle ground . it be not . as the United Nations Secretary - General Ant ó nio Guterres say : " the truly dangerous radical be the country that be increase the production of fossil fuel . " the fossil fuel lobby be behave like the tobacco lobby do when all of the medical evidence be against it . first , deny the science outright . when that be no long credible , pretend that the concern be exaggerated . and when that be no long credible , reframe the issue as one of personal choice . government be about establish a framework of regulation for the public good ; it be not about facilitate the freedom of those who would undermine the public good . that be why this Bill be bad for democracy . that be why this Bill be bad for our global standing as a country that have previously be regard as a leader on this issue . that leadership be now pass to other who be respond positively to the pledge in Dubai to transition away from fossil fuel by join the Beyond Oil and Gas Alliance . the flood that we be see devastate community and live around the country be but a foretaste of the terrifying impact of climate change beyond 1 . 5 ° . this Bill do nothing to mitigate they . it do nothing to support the billion of people across the world who live on the frontline of climate breakdown . it ignore the plight of million of bill payer who find themselves price out of our broken energy system . and it ignore the worker who power our country . this Bill endanger our natural world and future generation . I can not support it ; I will consign it to the same vote of no - confidence that I predict await this government later on this year . I want to start by remind the House , in the interest of transparency , that for 25 year prior to be an MP I work in the energy sector , specifically the oil and gas sector — I have not make a secret of that in the past , by the way . also in the interest of transparency , I note that I have a close family member who have a financial interest in that industry , although I feel keen to point out that that interest be below the threshold require for register interest . I can also assure the House that that interest have never have any bearing , and will not have any bearing , on my contribution in this place . we be not a nation that need to be convince of the need to transition away from oil and gas . the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , say on his return from COP28 that he " be proud to represent a country that have cut greenhouse gas emission more than any other major economy since 1990 ; that have boost our share of renewable electricity from a rather dismal 7 % in 2010 to almost half today " — I think we have exceed 50 % since he say that — " while almost entirely phase out coal power ; that have lead the world in mobilise green finance ; and that be now ensure that we bring the british public with we on the transition to net zero " . — [ Official Report , 14 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 1032 . ] we have essentially transition away completely from coal and continue to reduce our demand for oil and gas , but not as fast as our own domestic supply continue to decline , even with new production . one of the critical point that need to be make when consider this propose legislation be that new oil and gas do not mean more oil and gas . it be important to state a few basic fact that will hopefully help people understand why this Bill , aim at promote and facilitate new oil and gas production in this country , be not in contradiction to deliver on our net zero target and global agreement and commitment . we be today 75 % dependent on oil and gas for our energy need , not just for electricity generation but for heat and transportation as well . of that 75 % , about 50 % be produce domestically with the rest need to be import , include from Norway , as have be say . even by 2050 we will be at net zero and still up to 25 % dependent on oil and gas . even with new oil and gas exploration and production , couple with that decline in demand , we be extremely unlikely to have a net surplus ever again . the UK have be a net importer of oil and gas since 2004 , long after our own production profile peak in the late 1990 . there be currently 283 active oil and gas field in the North sea , and the Offshore Energies UK trade body estimate that by 2030 around 180 of those — that be more than 60 % — will have cease production due to natural decline . if we do not replace those deplete oil and gas field with new one , production will decline much fast than we can build low - carbon source to replace it . it be worth remember , as I point out early , that even with the new oil and gas field and well , we can reasonably predict that we be still look at a 7 % year - on - year reduction in UK production , accord to the North Sea Transition Authority . that be twice as fast as the International Energy Agency recommend . it suggest that the global reduction of oil and gas production need to be about half that , at 3 % to 4 % a year , to stay within our 1 . 5 ° target . in line with the Climate Change Committee ' s balanced pathway , the UK ' s demand for oil and gas will reduce over time , and be forecast to be approximately 16 billion barrel of oil equivalent cumulatively over the period through to 2050 . however , exist domestic field be expect to deliver only between 4 billion and 6 billion barrel of oil equivalent , so we can see the gap . that be the import gap , which we need to fill through import . new field development and license be require to reduce our reliance on overseas import . without new investment , it be predict that reliance on overseas import will increase from 50 % today to close to 80 % by 2030 . if demand for oil and gas be to continue — which it will , albeit it will be decline — in the come decade , it make sense to get it from as close to our own shore as possible . reduce demand for oil and gas be key , not reduce supply . I think we can all agree that we need to do that . simply reduce or cut off our domestic supply will not help net zero to happen any fast or any more successfully ; it will only make we more dependent on foreign import . there be other factor to consider . we have all hear today about the 200 , 000 or so job dependent on the oil and gas industry . those people be directly employ by the oil and gas industry , and protect those job and livelihood and understand the impact that an industry have on community and society , as well as on our local and national economy , be extremely important . my big worry go beyond that . it be not necessarily that those people will become unemployed — some of they may find job in the burgeon renewable sector , and as I discuss with my hon . friend the Member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) , we be see that in our constituency , although in the short to medium term there be not enough of those job to go around — but about the potential loss of precisely the skill , technology and supply chain that will be crucial to the delivery of the energy transition . if we shut down this critical industry too soon , those skill and supply chain will merely go overseas and deliver someone else ' s energy security and transition . for the past 50 year , the North sea offshore industry have be see as a centre of excellence in the global oil and gas industry . nowhere in the world be oil and gas produce more safely , efficiently , cleanly and environmentally responsibly . the former right hon . member for Kingswood and my right hon . friend the Member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) have say that we be a clean energy superpower that have decarbonise fast than any other G20 nation . we have reduce our emission by 50 % at the same time as grow our economy 70 % above 1990 level . to quote the former right hon . member for Kingswood : " that be a paragon and a model that all other nation look to " . — [ Official Report , 9 November 2023 ; Vol . 740 , c . 301 . ] where the former right hon . member for Kingswood and I do not agree be that far from damage that reputation we have build over decade , we have the opportunity to maintain and build on that perception as a centre for excellence for produce oil and gas well and more safely and cleanly than anyone else and for decarbonise fast than anyone else , rather than for virtue signal well than anybody else , as the Opposition appear to be seek to do . I welcome the Bill and the increase certainty that it bring to the offshore energy industry , business and the people with the skill and talent who work in those company . they will help to deliver not only our energy security for year to come but a successful energy transition to net zero . we can not just show the world that it can be do , but lead the world in show how it can be do . I agree with a lot of what the hon . member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) say , even though I disagree with the purpose of the Bill , which seem to I to be political grandstanding indicative only of it be an election year . it entirely fail to meet the significant need of those who be currently struggle to heat their home in Scotland , of the scottish economy , which should be bask in all the glory and wealth that have be create through oil and gas , or of our wide planet . we need to transition ; that be self - evident . it be not simply about the global warming that member have be talk about . train in my constituency be cancel today and the A1 be close because a lorry have overturn . it be a heavy good vehicle , but not a high - sided one . the strength of the wind that batter the community in my constituency and elsewhere do that . we have serious problem come down the line , and we require to change , but it require to be a just transition , at a pace that allow we to change , because we have to ensure that we keep the skill . we can not do to those in the oil and gas sector what be do by Thatcher to the miner and simply close they down and throw they to the wolf . we have to ensure that we transition to renewable , but oil and gas be require for we to make that journey . I can see it in the hill of the Lammermuirs , and I see it on a daily basis as increase number of wind turbine go into the firth of Forth . at the end of the day , the ship put in the column for the turbine run on marine diesel . a lot of the turbine require plastic to be construct , and we also need the vehicle simply to get they there . we have to get to that renewable future . the tragedy in Scotland be that we be already there , as we produce almost as much energy as we require . our people just do not get the benefit of it , because it be transmit south and charge at an appalling rate when it should be almost free , give that people can see it from their home , on their hill and off their shore . there have to be a change . there be also a perversity . although I agree with new licensing , Rosebank will be operate and own by Equinor , the state energy company of Norway , so the profit will go to Oslo . Scotland and Norway discover oil at the same time , because we share access to the North sea basin . those in Norway have a standard of living and an economy that those in Scotland can only look at and weep with envy . they also have a future fund , because they put the money away rather than allow the super - rich to get even rich and invest in foreign bank account or highland estate . Norway have a future fund and Scotland have precisely nothing . we have to continue to build and to continue extract oil and gas . that have to be at a significant pace for Scotland , while take into account the need to meet the requirement of the planet . two particular aspect be need . first , as per the amendment in my name and that of my group leader , my hon . friend the Member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) , we must have a commitment to a net zero carbon footprint . in particular , that mean take into account the need of carbon capture . Scotland have have the bounty of North sea oil and we need to ensure we continue to get benefit from it . we have come the bounty of renewable , and we see that with offshore wind , both float and fix , but we also have huge potential with carbon capture , because the geology of the North sea provide something like 30 % of the opportunity in Europe . yes , carbon capture be untested , but our society and our planet need it . more importantly , we must have a commitment to retain a refinery at Grangemouth . it be absurd , as other have say today , that the oil from the North sea be ship abroad in the main to be refine , and then we import from supertanker come in . those ship pass on the high sea , and that be simply absurd . as we have a worsen planet crisis , it be perverse . it be not good enough to say , " it ' s the wrong type of oil , " just as we would not accept a rail operate company say that it be the wrong type of leave on the track . yes , our refinery be not at the capacity for the engineering or technical skill to refine it , but that should be do . the first place to do that be Grangemouth . why ? because the Forties pipeline come into Grangemouth . as the hon . member for Banff and Buchan know , it land at Cruden bay in his constituency , but it be pipe down to Grangemouth . it be absurd that Grangemouth should be close when the oil — both past and present , and indeed future — be come in from the North sea . so if there be to be the continued extraction of Scotland ' s need , which we have not benefit from because we do not have the wealth or saving of Norway , we must at least ensure that we save Grangemouth . I call on the UK Government first to ensure that they provide the fund for the hydrocracker that will increase the profitability of the exist site threefold . if that be do — that would cost a fraction of the billion the UK have get from North Sea oil over the year , and a fraction of what it will continue to take in petroleum revenue tax and other benefit in come year — we must ensure that we get the profitability up . then , in a couple of year , we must take the engineering , the skill and the technology so that the oil from the North sea can be refine in Grangemouth . it be absurd and perverse that that be not do . do the hon . member accept that one of the reason why we have not have investment in the refining industry in the United Kingdom for decade be precisely because the net zero policy that be be follow , with the cost and charge for carbon , the emission trading scheme and other carbon taxis , discourage any investment in the very production facility we use to process the oil that we bring out ? I think there be a variety of factor , and I have no doubt that some of those factor be there . there have also be a failure to invest . where the blame do not lie be with a workforce who be skilled and who presently have to work with a refinery that be past its sell by date and require to be invest in . even the union and the workforce recognise that investment be require to get the hydrocracker go and to get the technology to ensure that we refine the oil there . it be probably not the current owner Petroineos but previous owner who have take the benefit for themselves and invest it in their shareholder rather than put it back into either the workforce or , indeed , capacity at the refinery . tragically , that happen across so much of UK industry , whether the shipyard , the steelwork or whatever else . we see a Government who will benefit from North sea oil ' s continued extraction , so the least that Scotland be entitle to expect be its refinery to be at the heart of that . especially when the oil will flow down that golden thread in the Forties pipeline down to Grangemouth , we require to ensure that Grangemouth will refine it . yes , that require technical change , and yes , that will come at a cost , but that be a small fraction of what the UK will take from the benefit of that North sea oil . that be why the Alba party ' s support be conditional on carbon capture and the net zero footprint , and also conditional on Grangemouth be at its heart . it be absurd that Scotland be not get the wealth from the oil off its shore . it be absurd that while country have see their desert redevelop and bloom because of the oil they have have , what we have see with North sea oil be an industrial desert create . have be bring up only 10 or 15 mile from Grangemouth , I know the devastation that will come to that community unless there be the change require to ensure that Grangemouth do the refining for North sea oil . we can not afford to have Grangemouth throw to the wolf . as I say in last week ' s debate , we can not have " Grangemouth no more " ; we require to ensure a refinery capacity . it would be absurd for Scotland in the UK to have in Grangemouth no refinery capacity . Scotland would be rank 21st in the nation that produce oil , and the only one in the top 25 without a refinery capacity . the only other country that tend not to have refinery capacity be the like of the Republic of Congo and Trinidad and Tobago . I wish those country no ill — I be sure they be fine country — but they do not produce the same level of oil , and they be not develop industrial economy . the fact of the matter be that Scotland should not be in that same position of be an oil - produce nation without a refinery capacity . on that basis , Grangemouth must be retain . I call on the Government to do that . my only additional point be that the Scottish Government , too , require to step up to the plate . the fact that the business and economy Secretary in Scotland appear to be accept the closure of Grangemouth as something that just will happen and be maybe a matter of regret be simply unacceptable . he may be in coalition with the Greens , but he can not have they wag the SNP dog . it be simply unacceptable that we see Grangemouth close without a fight . the Scottish Government should be lead the demand that the refinery be change , that we do ensure the hydrocracker , that we do provide the change to refine in Scotland , and that we do move towards biofuel . what they should not be do be wring their hand and sell out the Grangemouth workforce . we require a refinery capacity in Scotland . the UK Government have have the benefit of Scotland ' s oil and should pay for it , and it be about time that the Scottish Government stand up for industrial Scotland and the worker who at one point put their trust and faith in they . we be no stranger to hyperbole in this Chamber , but I think the exaggeration of the importance of this Bill in the debate have surprise even Government Members . to hear Opposition Members , we would think that the Government have make a bold announcement to reject their policy on climate change , to deny the science and to minimise the impact of climate change , and to say that we be no long commit to decarbonise by 2050 . none of that be even remotely true . nothing have change in relation to the Government ' s policy on climate change , and decarbonisation in particular . in fact , the Prime Minister recently reaffirm that . the United Kingdom recently pass the substantial marker of be the first of any major economy to more than halve its emission . that be a huge milestone , and that be the kind of climate leadership that be important ; not make virtue - signal announcement in this Chamber or elsewhere . country around the world look at we because of what we do , and we be decarbonise and lead by example . I will take no lesson from the Labour party . I look this up during the debate : in 2010 , on Labour ' s watch , the economy emit 495 . 8 million tonne of co2 equivalent ; now it be 320 million tonne and decline . that be as a result of conservative policy in action , where we accept the science on climate change but take positive action on the really important thing : it be the amount of oil and carbon we use that be important , not where it come from . the conservative record be incredibly strong , but we still recognise , as do the Climate Change Committee , that we need oil and gas as part of our long - term future . currently , as my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) point out , about 75 % of our energy come from hydrocarbon — oil and gas . that be reduce , but it be on a trajectory to get to about 25 % even in 2050 and beyond . the hon . Member be take the Climate Change Committee ' s name in vain . it do not say that we need new oil and gas . it say categorically that new exploration of oil and gas be not compatible with our net zero obligation . I do not understand why he be claim something that be different from what the committee say . he compare emission under a Labour Government with those under a Tory Government . I be no apologist for the Labour Government , but I wonder whether he put consumption emission into those calculation . do he work out whether emission have go down in the UK because we have outsource even more of our manufacturing to country on the other side of the world ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for that intervention . the Climate Change Committee give we the science , and the political decision be take in this House . we be not talk about an increase in exploration ; we be talk about a manage reduction of 7 % per annum . move on , the question be not whether we have oil or gas , yes or no . we need oil and gas , certainly for the transition period between 2024 and 2050 , and even beyond — accord to the Climate Change Committee , around 25 % of our energy will still come from oil and gas . the question be : where should that oil and gas come from ? if we need to supply this economy with oil and gas , it be my belief that we should use UK oil and gas , and there be reason for that . the first be that the industry employ 200 , 000 people . I would prefer that employment to remain in the UK economy , rather than export it to Russia , Qatar , Saudi Arabia or other oil and gas produce country . that be a reasonable position , give that our consumption be require for the future . the second reason be geopolitical . we need an alternative to russian gas , and not just in this country . I accept the point make early by Opposition Members : that oil and gas be a global market , and that 80 % of North sea oil be export to Europe . but emission be global and so be the geopolitic . it be right , and in our strategic interest , that Europe should have a viable alternative to Russia for the supply of hydrocarbon . we have see in the last two year the awful consequence of an overreliance on the russian supply of hydrocarbon , and more so in Europe — Germany , in particular — than in the United Kingdom . we have become a net exporter of gas to mainland Europe — a little from the North sea , but a lot from Milford Haven . qatari liquid natural gas be import into our country and transport by the connector to mainland Europe . the Europeans be suck up very pollute liquid natural gas because they do not have a viable , clean alternative , which North sea gas would provide . it have be point out to I that gas in Qatar be produce at a broadly equivalent carbon footprint to ours , but the compression into liquid , the transportation and the de - liquefaction when it get into this country quadruple that carbon footprint . my hon . friend be right . opposition Members have no answer to that . in Germany in particular , misguided green policy have lead to the extraordinary decision to decommission the low - carbon nuclear industry and replace it with coal - fire power station . I could hardly make it up . Germany be massively increase its reliance on import liquid natural gas , which be much more polluting than the clean , more local and geopolitically more stable alternative of North sea gas and oil . the third reason why I would prefer that we use UK oil and gas be that it pay UK tax . I be not ashamed to say that I welcome that . if we be to extract hydrocarbon that will be tax , I prefer for that tax to be pay in the United Kingdom , rather than in some other country . just between 2023 and 2028 it be estimate that those tax receipt will amount to £ 30 billion . we know how much trouble Opposition Members have try to explain where they will get their £ 28 billion of borrow each year , and how that will raise interest rate , debt and inflation . that would be more than double if they get their way and their policy destroy the North sea oil and gas sector . the hon . Gentleman mention what the Government be spend , not spend and tax , but could he mention how much they actually spend on subsidy for the oil and gas industry — just a number ? a number be mention early in the debate , but I do not catch it . I be sure that the hon . Lady might have that number in mind . it be right that we support industry in this country , because they create employment , generate economic activity and , in turn , pay taxis . I be not ashamed of that , because it be a good thing . the final reason why I want oil and gas extraction in this country , if we be to use it , be the balance of payment . that use to be a fashionable economic argument back in the day . when I be a teenager , we use to have announcement on the news about the balance of payment month by month . what have happen to that ? the balance of payment be every bit as important economically today as it be back in the 1980 . we run a current account deficit in this country of about £ 150 billion . that be a huge number , and it will be exacerbate if we choose — and it would be a political choice — not to generate and export a product from this economy to a third economy , but instead choose to import one , exacerbate the balance of payment deficit twice over . for those four reason , I be wholly in favour of the ambition behind this short Bill . climate change will be solve by reduce demand for hydrocarbon , not by reduce supply . we will solve the demand problem by provide cheap alternative , which the Government be do . member who have contribute be quite right to highlight that . we need renewable . I agree with the hon . member ' s point about reduce demand . the great travesty be that we be still see house build today — I be sure he do in his constituency — where the insulation be not at all deep . that be ridiculous , be it not ? I could not agree more . the future home building regulation , which require a significantly decrease carbon footprint for modern building , come into force in 2025 . it be deeply frustrating that they be not bring in early . the soon they come in , the well . we also have the challenge of retrofitting insulation in the 28 . 5 million exist house in Britain . some good point have be make by Opposition Members about the need to improve retrofitting , and there be scope for the Government to incentivise further insulation of private house , to go with the successful scheme in place already for public sector building and housing . we must also increase our wind power . we have an extremely ambitious target of 50 GW by 2030 . the current rate be about 17 GW of renewable wind power generation capacity . we must also increase solar and nuclear , include small modular reactor . we need well technology for carbon capture , usage and storage . we need to accelerate our use of electric or hydrogen vehicle — or , frankly , any other kind of technology that solve the problem — and we need to incentivise the market to step into that area . we need to take a step back and look at building . it be about not just about the operate carbon cost of exist infrastructure , which we be focus on in both commercial building and the residential sector ; it be also about the embody carbon in our construction process , hence my private Member ' s Bill on the measurement of embody carbon in large building and development . about 50 % of the carbon associate with building be in its construction , not its operation . there be area where the Government be either ahead of the game or move in the right direction . they have already be successful in reduce demand for hydrocarbon . I do not understand why Labour appear to put virtue signal before the economic impact and 200 , 000 local job . I support this eminently sensible Bill . in my four year as a Member of Parliament , I keep come back to this question : whose interest do this place serve ? do the law we pass and the structure we maintain serve the interest of our constituent ? be they design to enrich and empower they ? or do they deepen inequality in wealth and power , serve the interest of the super - rich and the company that dominate our economy ? I say that because with this Bill , the question feel more relevant than ever . the Bill , which scale - up fossil fuel extraction in the North sea just as we should be rapidly scale it down , be obviously not about help our constituent . it be not about bring down energy bill — even the Secretary of State admit that — and it be not about energy security . a former BP boss say that new North sea drilling be : " not go to make any difference " to energy security . that be no surprise , since fossil fuel company be give ownership of what they extract and then sell it on the world market . the Bill be the very opposite of tackle the climate crisis . that be a blatant truth recognise by the Government ' s own Climate Change Committee , which say the Bill be not in line with net zero . if the Bill be not about energy bill , energy security or tackle the climate crisis , what be it about ? the answer be simple . it be about maximise profit for fossil fuel giant , guarantee that they can extract every last bit of oil and gas , no matter the consequence for people and planet . these company be the last that need our support . as energy bill soar last year — our constituent know that reality far too well — BP ' s global profit hit £ 23 billion . Shell report its high ever profit : a whopping £ 32 billion . this year , the world ' s five big oil company be expect to hand investor more than £ 80 billion . record bill for my Coventry South constituent have mean record profit for fossil fuel giant . eye - water North sea oil and gas profit be not an accident , but by design . they be aid and abet by Government choice . the Government ' s North sea tax and subsidy regime be so skewed in the interest of fossil fuel company that for year Shell and BP get away with pay zero tax on North sea production . it be so rig in these company ' interest that the company develop the Rosebank oil field will get a £ 3 billion tax break to develop the site , mean our constituent will pay 91 % of the cost of develop it . the public pay the cost , the company cream off the profit and then we all face the consequence of its climate - wreck activity . and there be no doubt about that , because the science be clear : develop new oil and gas field be incompatible with our climate commitment . More oil and gas extraction may be good for fossil fuel company and their shareholder , but it spell disaster for the rest of we . if we continue to let the climate crisis deteriorate , we condemn our constituent to a world where extreme weather pattern become more common and more severe ; where there be more storm henk and more storm Ishas , and where their wind blow hard and their flood get deep . we condemn young people across the country to a world where drought destroy crop and food system break down , where sea level rise and million be displace . that be the world that this climate - wreck Bill be help to create , but there be an alternative . it be call the green new deal . it be a programme of state - lead investment in green industry , rapidly replace fossil fuel with renewable , create million of good unionise green job , tax the rich , and redistribute wealth and power in favour of ordinary people . unlike the Bill , it be a plan that put people and planet before profit . there be no time to waste . I urge colleague to vote against this climate - wreck Bill and build that bright alternative . I suspect that for many member , there be time when vote in this place can cause a sleepless night or two . for I , this vote have cause a number of sleepless night . there be a dilemma : on the one hand , the responsibility to care for the life and livelihood of those people we represent today ; and on the other , the responsibility to care for those who will come in the future and to leave the planet in a well place for generation in time ahead . on the one hand , there be the risk to our energy security , a much great risk than any of we would have predict just a couple of year ago , due to the war in Ukraine , the situation in the middle east and in the Red sea , and who know what next . the Government be right on energy security that we can not move away from fossil fuel overnight . we need to prioritise energy security for as long as we need fossil fuel . import LNG involve much great emission than use gas extract here . rely on overseas energy mean job overseas , not british job . on the other hand , there be the risk of climate change . in my Essex constituency , the summer before last we see at first - hand how real that risk be , with a really hot summer and rage fire . recently , across the UK , so many people have witness awful flood . we know that the warm the weather , the wetter it will be . a couple of year ago , I see at first - hand the true devastation when I go to the eastern part of Ethiopia , a region that a few year ago be teem with wildlife . they use to say you should never ask a herder how many animal he have , because you would never be able to stop count . right now , that land be totally devastate by consecutive year of drought . million of people will no long be able to live in the land where they have live for generation . the impact of that climate change will mean more people will be force to leave their country . there will be more migration and that will impact we here at home . unless there be action to tackle emission and climate change , we will see those impact accelerate and worsen . we also know that action to tackle climate change need to be global . the Government be right that the UK have do more than any other G7 nation to reduce emission . they be right that other country also need to play their part . incidentally , I get really cross when people say to I , " country like China and India be do nothing . " actually , China be now invest in more renewable than any other country , and more than the US and Europe put together . India be on track to deliver 500 GW of renewable by 2030 , which be absolutely massive . country be move . at COP28 just last month , which I attend , country all over the world sign up to the pledge to transition away from fossil fuel . we sign that pledge , too . the Government will rightly point out that even with these new oil and gas licence , the North sea will continue to be a decline basin and that we be transition away from fossil fuel , but the perception internationally be that by grant these licence the UK may be walk away from our promise on climate change . when encourage other country to do the right thing , leadership matter and the UK have a key role to play . we host the world in Glasgow at COP26 . if we , the UK , be see or perceive to be walk away from the promise we make to the world , then other country might walk away from their promise , too . that be why it be vital that we be see to be keep the promise we make . we must continue to cut energy waste and reduce our emission . I be very proud to be a member of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . as one of only two member of the Committee contribute to the debate , I will talk about some of the thing that have be do and that we must do more of . million of home have become more energy efficient . we should continue to do more , especially in owner - occupy home . the priority have be social rent home , which have be very successful , but we must to do more to help owner - occupy home . we have unlock massive amount of renewable energy , but we can unlock more . it be really important that we get it connect to the grid more quickly — the Government be work on that . I would also like to see more local energy network , so we can have local energy production nearer to where we have high energy risk and then we would not need quite so much extra grid transmission . we need to accelerate new nuclear . there have be some good announcement about that this month , but , especially in respect of the small modular reactor , can we go fast ? we need to remove barrier to more innovation such as hydrogen , especially for heat , and we need to support the transition to more zero emission vehicle , especially for those in terrace house . I say to the Minister that we need to get rid of the " pavement tax " so that charge be affordable for all . on all those matter the Government have make great progress , but we need to do more . incidentally , I will take no lesson from Labour Members on this , because in their 13 year of power they do so little to cut emission . the Government be right to say that the transition to net zero need to be affordable , practical and pragmatic , but it should also involve be honest with people . it be estimate that even the new gas licence will provide only 103 day ' worth of gas — 1 % of today ' s demand — between now and 2050 , so let we have an honest discussion about the fact that this Bill will not do everything . however , it be important for energy security that we continue to look at how we can well meet our local energy need . on offshore oil and gas , I have first - hand experience of how important be a respected world leader on environment issue can be in persuade other country to change their behaviour . member will recall that 10 year ago the world watch in horror when the Deepwater Horizon explosion cause an environmental catastrophe in the gulf of Mexico . at the time the European Union have a knee - jerk reaction , and produce draft legislation that would have ban all deep - water drilling . as a member of the European Parliament ' s Committee on Industry , Research and Energy at the time , I be appoint by mep to lead the work of the European Parliament in scrutinise that directive . I meet offshore safety expert , environmentalist , geologist and regulator , and it become clear to I that the European Commission ' s proposal be not the right way forward . time and again I be tell that not all deep - water drilling be dangerous and not all shallow - water drilling be safe . I remember table more than 300 amendment to the European Commission ' s text , change it paragraph by paragraph so that instead of ban all deep - water drilling the Commission would take a site - specific approach , look at the risk of every single proposal . I persuade the British Labour Members of the European Parliament that that be the right thing to do , and I persuade the british Liberal Democrat mep that it be the right thing to do . I persuade parliamentarian from 27 country that it be the right thing to do . they agree because they know that the UK be the world leader when it come to the environmental and safety standard of the offshore oil and gas industry . will my right hon . friend give way ? I be go to carry on . my point be that maintain our leadership in environmental standard in the North sea be key to persuade other country to think about their energy in the future . the Government say that they want this country to continue to be a world leader , but at this point we have lose a bit of leadership to Norway , where gas be produce in a way that be 50 % less carbon - intensive than the way in which gas be produce in our North sea . measure such as ban flare , electrify the production process with the use of float wind and work with neighbouring country to see how our carbon capture capacity can be use to decarbonise the refining process could make a huge difference to the carbon emission that be cause and use when we be produce oil and gas in our North sea . as we make the transition away from fossil fuel , I should like to see the world move towards consider how we can make that industry as low - carbon as possible . some of my colleague have talk about amendment relate to some of these issue , and I hope the Minister and the Government will be open to any such amendment . I think that , as currently word , the Bill do not really let the Government do anything that they can not do already — they can already grant these licence — but it do give we an opportunity to show that this country have the ambition to ensure that any carbon emission that come from fossil fuel during this transition be as low as possible , and that our industry be as clean as possible . that would help the UK to maintain its world - lead voice in environmental negotiation and encourage other country to clean up and decarbonise their production , thus help to ensure that the global transition away from fossil fuel take place in as clean a way as possible . I believe that we should be able to do all that while also address those other priority such as deliver and improve our energy security , and deliver and improve job security here at home . the propose legislation before we be an outrage , and I be pleased that we have have the opportunity today to discuss in detail what it mean . it have be a relatively good - natured debate , but it have show very clearly where the political choice be , and I find the political choice of the Conservatives unacceptable . new licence for new oil and gas field in the North sea be in direct conflict with our national and international net zero commitment . we must get away from our dependence on fossil fuel , not extend it . at COP28 the Government sign an international agreement to phase out fossil fuel , but we be do the opposite in this country . it be just not acceptable for we to do one thing abroad and another at home . as have already be say so many time this afternoon , this be lose we our reputation for good leadership , and lose any credibility that the Government could have at home or abroad . the Government ' s claim that the Bill ensure our energy security be complete fiction . recent analysis from the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit find that oil from new licence send to UK refinery would account for less than 1 % of fuel use in the UK in 2030 . the Bill would make little or no difference to UK energy security , and the Secretary of State herself admit that it would do little to cut bill . furthermore , on the basis of past record , new licence issue since 2010 have produce only 16 day of extra gas supply . between now and 2050 , new licence be expect to provide an average of only four day of gas per annum . be it really worth it to lose our reputation , our commitment and our path to net zero for that ? the vast majority of this new oil and gas production would not stay in the UK ; it would be sell on global market for consumption abroad . no government should want a repeat of the energy crisis of last year , which be bring on by the crisis in global fossil fuel supply and soar price on the global oil and gas market . only by move away from fossil fuel can it be guarantee that such a crisis will not be repeat . however , this legislation be not just stupid and unnecessary , but dangerous . it break down a decade - long cross - party consensus that every Government must be seriously commit to cut greenhouse gas emission and must provide strong , unflinche leadership to help people , organisation and business along the road to a successful energy transition . as we have hear today , there be a fair amount of consensus , so why should it be break ? that be really not understandable . undermine this consensus be hugely irresponsible and send entirely the wrong signal to the international community . the late COP28 negotiation have show how rocky the path to net zero be and how important the leadership of the develop nation remain . I be at COP28 , and it be really sad to see how that leadership have be lose and how many nation look at we and shake their head . they can not understand what have happen to the UK in the last year or two . it be not just at COP28 , the climate COP , that there be an issue . I be at Montreal at the nature COP , and we be in the vanguard of agree that 30 % of water should be protect for nature . these additional drilling rig cause havoc in our inland water , but 15 % of new licence be declare in marine protect area , so we be see a nature crisis be cause by this as well as a climate crisis . yes , indeed . many organisation that campaign to protect nature and the ocean have write to I — and probably to many other member of Parliament — about how extremely dangerous and damaging this be to marine wildlife . the UK be in a strong position geographically to cover its future energy need from renewable and from cut energy consumption . the Minister well know my position on this : diverse , home - grow renewable energy and a significant home insulation programme be key to the solution . the energy efficiency of our home be among the bad in Europe , and yes , if we be talk about job , we be lack so many of the job that we need in the retrofitting and upgrade sector . we need a new workforce in the new technology for the net zero future of our UK economy . that be not look back at past fuel . they have power the world , yes , but we need to transition and we can not keep on with business as usual . that be the problem and the opportunity . it be deplorable that the Government have finish embrace this new future and break the consensus that we have across the House . where be the legislation to address all that ? fail project after fail project alongside acute underfunding mean that people continue to live in cold home with sky - high energy bill , so where be the legislation to revolutionise our home retrofitting agenda ? the problem need long - term policy and funding commitment rather than the stop and start of this Government . while offshore wind be no doubt a success story , we must move fast . onshore wind development have be slow , and solar have be particularly off - track . in fact , we be go backwards . the proportion of renewable project that be be delay be on the rise . last year the Government ' s predictable failure to contract new offshore wind lose 5 GW of renewable energy and the opportunity to save consumer £ 2 billion a year . renewable developer still face a planning system that be stack against onshore wind , and community energy provider still face enormous start - up cost . rather than a petroleum Bill , why be we not debate a marine energy Bill today to incentivise investment in the various new technology in marine energy and facilitate the fast roll - out of installation ? the Government be waste time and money on the fuel of the past . instead , they should champion UK technology and innovation . so , why this Bill ? my suspicion be that it be an election year Bill to drive division and fuel the culture war . for too long , work people have be make to worry that the green energy transition be a punishment for they and that it will cost they prosperity , livelihood and the way of life that they be use to . but there be country who have successfully turn the negative narrative into a prospect of hope and major opportunity . the US Inflation Reduction Act and the EU ' s green industrial plan will together see over $ 600 billion of green investment create new and exciting job and career . even Canada , an economy small than our , have announce a package that offer nearly £ 50 billion - worth of tax credit for green technology . green investment will be worth a potential £ 1 trillion by 2030 . uncertainty over this Government ' s commitment to reach net zero mean that investor be look the other way . oil and gas be energy source of the past . put our political future towards they only amplifie how seriously out of touch and out of idea this current Government be . the Bill be misleading and counterproductive . it fly in the face of our net zero commitment and will do nothing to ensure our energy security . indeed , it will do the opposite . we Liberal Democrats will support the Labour reason amendment and oppose this Government Bill , and I call on all colleague across the House with an ounce of honesty and integrity to do the same . the irony be not lose on I in this debate that every single one of we in this place want the same thing . normally when the whole House agree on something , I think that something be wrong , but in this case I have no doubt that the whole House be right : we need to reduce our reliance on fossil fuel . what we be debate today and argue about in this place be how we can get there in the most pragmatic way . this Bill be another example of the Government try their good to do what be right at this moment in time , but I fear that the punitive taxis — I will ask the Minister more about those in a minute — will not help the investment that the Government say be so need . to rely more on our own gas and oil from the North sea be a necessity and full of common sense . it be a fact that we will be rely on fossil fuel for decade to come — a point that no one in this place deny . the UK have make some impressive advance in wind and solar , and a new generation of nuclear be on its way , although I have to say that we and the opposition have be talk about nuclear investment for year , yet so little have be do . wind and solar be excellent way of generate power . I have not yet hear anyone here today say that when the wind do not blow and the sun do not shine — [ interruption . ] I will come to tidal in a minute , if I may . the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) have just join the debate , I think , but I will answer her point ; Portland in my constituency have a huge tidal race . but it be a fact that when the sun do not shine and the wind do not blow , we do not get the energy we need . also , as we have hear many time , we have cut our emission by half ; we be a world leader and have a record to be very proud of . just touch on what the hon . Lady say about tidal , yes of course we have huge tidal race in this country , include in Scotland and in Portland off the coast of South Dorset in my constituency . if we can explore this and harness it to make it work — there be major technical issue , not least with sand and with salt water , which be very destructive — then she be absolutely right , it be a way of generate energy that I be sure everyone would support . I have hear from several speaker today about the instability of the world we live in . that be very true and I do not have to rehearse why I feel that in my lifetime we be face the most dangerous time on our planet . if we do not have the power to drive our economy and our home , it would be strategically — quite apart from anything else — insane . we be an island nation , and I do not have to remind anyone in this House how significant energy independence be go to be in the event of a catastrophe . here we have a Bill that will allow company to apply for licence to safeguard domestic energy supply . the Bill say that this will safeguard more than 200 , 000 job , enhance our security , reduce dependence on high - emission import from overseas and significantly prevent family and business from be unduly burden , which to a certain degree they already be through the green taxis that everyone face . so what ' s not to like , you may ask — I be very convinced by the argument that my hon . friend be put forward , but he have miss one useful point . do he not agree that the generation of oil and gas in the North sea will generate tax receipt that can then be use to subsidise green energy production in other part of the british economy ? that point have be raise several time , and I totally agree that the tax receipt from investment in oil and gas play a huge part in our economy . I might have this wrong , but as I understand it these company will face 50 % corporation tax and a 35 % windfall levy . I would be grateful if , in his sum up , the Minister could say whether that be true . I be not an expert in the industry , but I think that chief executive , board member and shareholder would wince if , have be tell that they have to do all this , they have to pay all that punitive taxation . they might say , " why on earth should we do this in the first place ? " not to step on the Minister ' s toe , but my understanding be that even before the 35 % energy profit levy , the oil and gas sector be , at 40 % , already the most tax sector in the country — 40 % plus 35 % be 75 % . I stand to be correct by the Minister if I be wrong . I hope my hon . friend and I can be correct by the Minister because , as the House have just hear , the tax rate be punitive . if we be go to do this for all the common - sense reason that the Minister and the Government say we should , why on earth be we raise taxis to such a point that it discourage and disincentivise all those who need to spend hundred of million of pound , or more , to get the oil and gas out of the ground ? the powerful Climate Change Committee , which operate outside this place , be mention occasionally but , frankly , it be pretty unaccountable . it be very influential , and it have now set our fourth carbon budget , which can be legally challenge once it be in place . I wonder whether the Government fear that they could find themselves in the court as they rightfully plough on with this Bill , to which many people object . it shock I to the core that it have take a war in Europe for the west to prioritise both energy and food security . for how many decade have we be talk about nuclear power , and what have happen ? very little . Nuclear will be a vital component of keep the light on and keep this country safe . Globalisation have soften our resolve to stand alone , if need be , when hard time hit , in whatever shape they come . the Bill have a lot go for it , not least a most welcome return to our old and absent friend : common sense . I urge the Government to find pragmatic solution to the transition to net zero and allow the private sector to do what it do well , which be provide job and prosperity , not least in Scotland . the search for alternative to fossil fuel will continue and , as we have hear , the tax receipt will be use to invest in green energy . I have no doubt at all that an affordable , reliable and plentiful solution will be find — the human race have a remarkable ability to survive — but , in the meantime , will the Government continue to work in the real world to keep the light on , the economy run and the country strategically safe ? it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) . the irony will not be lose on you of all people , Mr Deputy Speaker , that we be reduce in number in Parliament today by the impact of Storm Isha , the origin of which lie in climate change , yet we be debate the Government ' s desire to increase the global supply of oil and gas . it be also damn that the Government ' s net zero tsar , Chris Skidmore , feel compel to resign , have spend three month research his report and travel the length and breadth of these isle . he say that he could " no long condone nor continue to support a government that be commit to a course of action that I know … will cause future harm . " to pick up the point make by the hon . member for South Dorset , 10 year ago , when I be a councillor , I be talk about how we need to create energy resilience in Warwickshire , how we need to consider the future need of our community and how we could well use our pension fund to help to drive that agenda . the Government claim that the Bill will not add undue burden on household . " undue burden " be a pretty strange phrase . the Secretary of State have also admit that new licence will not necessarily bring down energy bill . let I put that into context . this be the same Conservative Government who rip up the zero carbon home policy announce by Chancellor Gordon Brown in 2006 and produce by my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) and my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) . that legislation would have mean that all new home build from 2016 onwards be zero carbon . just imagine : we would have build 1 . 2 million zero - carbon home by now . there would be thousand of new zero - carbon home in my Warwick and Leamington constituency on the Mallory Grange , Priors , Montague Point , Myton Gardens , Chesterton Gardens and Victoria Point estate , and many other . my constituent would be benefit from next to no energy bill , and they would be do the right thing , but they be deny that choice by the Conservative Government who rip up that legislation . the next generation will not thank this Government for what they have do . they will not be thankful for one of the high level of debt we have ever see , the great tax burden since the war , the stagnant economy and , I dare say , the moral bankruptcy of this Government . we have have nine name storm so far this year , with the 10th come down the track . we have just 11 name storm in 2015 - 16 . the flooding be reach into all corner of the United Kingdom , create economic damage , damage to people ' s home and business , and distress to all . there have be damage to infrastructure , crop and food production . waterlogge soil mean that seed and crop can not be harvest . a report from Ernst & Young say that last year be the bad year for insurance underwriting in decade , push up premium by at least one third in the next two year — an expect increase of 36 % . Amanda Blanc , the chief executive of Aviva , have say that new oil and gas drilling " put at clear risk the job , growth and the additional investment the UK require to become more climate ready . " today , the country be plunge far into chaos and economic damage . our transport be disrupt and our business be impact . colleague have be unable to get to London to attend Parliament . two week ago I request a debate on flood and flooding and , on my journey home , my train be delay by a landslip cause by climate change — yet more irony . we need a wide debate on the impact of climate change , which be cause not just flood but tidal surge and strong wind . the Prime Minister speak of climate " zealot " . well , the public , and young people especially , must be climate zealot because , I be afraid , they be deeply concerned . they be not zealot . they be realist about the future we face . on my recent visit , nearly every primary school — St Margaret ' s , all Saints , St Paul ' s , Heathcote , Woodloes , St Peter ' s , Coten end and Bishop ' s Tachbrook ; I could name they all — have raise the critical importance of climate change and how they want we in this place to bring about immediate action . the young people study in our college understand the future . they can see what be happen , and they have say to I , " the future be electric . that ' s why we be train for these skill . " they get it ; they can see the future . we know that 2023 be the world ' s hot on record . last year be about 1 . 48 ° c warm than the long - term average before human start burn large amount of fossil fuel . the eight warm year on record have occur since 2014 . the global average sea level have rise by 8 to 9 inch . flood across the UK , include in my constituency , have damage 2 , 000 property across the country , and 5 . 7 million property be at risk of flooding in England in 2022 - 23 . those fact underline just how irresponsible this Bill be . we be 18 year on from the stern report and " an Inconvenient Truth " , which be tell like never before by Vice - President Al Gore . two year ago , the report by the UK ' s independent Climate Change Committee say that the good way to ease consumer ’ pain from high energy price be to stop use fossil fuel , rather than drill for more of they . that be part of the great deception that be this legislation : the good way to bring down price be to reduce demand and the Government be do next to nothing on that . we also need to bring in cheap energy source and to reduce demand by insulate home . we can put in energy insulation panel that be really not very thick . the approach be take in this legislation be a crime and an obscenity , and it be happen because the Government tear up the legislation of the last Labour Government . we need to bring in cheap energy source by allow onshore wind , which be currently the cheap form of electricity generation . in the 12 month to the end of September 2023 , total consumer expenditure on electricity , gas and other fuel use in the home be £ 62 billion , a figure almost double that of two year before . as my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) say , " it be precisely our dependence on fossil fuel that have lead to the bad cost of live crisis in generation . " it be clear from the King ' s Speech that this Bill will not take even a penny off energy bill . Lord Browne , of all people , the former chief executive of BP — he be also a highly regard individual across the industry and in the other place , where he be a Cross - Bench peer — say that the proposal be " not go to make any difference " to the UK ' s energy security . that point be echo by the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) . in conclusion , energy security have to start at home , but not the home of the international oil and gas major and their market preference , and instead the home of the british people — home that be well insulate and that can generate and store their own electricity and power . the only thing hold back the british people be this Government , who be weak and capable only of short - term decision . that be why the country need Labour ' s clean power mission : to make the UK a clean energy superpower . we have a plan to make energy cheap and secure so that the british public never again face spiral bill . it be a plan to boost job and investment in every region and nation of the country . it be a plan to cut energy bill for good , take up to £ 1 , 400 off annual household bill ; to create good job by rebuild the strength of our industrial heartland and coastal community , create more than 1 million job in 10 year ; and to deliver energy security by use our abundant natural resource for our own citizen . we will do that by establish " GB Energy " , a new home - grow publicly own champion in clean energy generation to build job and supply chain here at home . we will also set up the national wealth fund , which will create good , well - pay job by invest , alongside the private sector , in gigafactorie , clean steel plant , renewable - ready port , green hydrogen and energy storage . we will also do this through a warm home plan . the Bill be yet another reason why this country be desperate for a general election and I will be vote against it . I welcome the fact that the Government have introduce this Bill , even though it may well be a belated acceptance that some policy they have be follow in pursuit of net zero have to be revise . we know that because of the energy security issue and the dramatic rise in the cost of energy in response to the fall in supply result from the war in Ukraine and the sanction impose in Russia , as well as the impact on the supply chain after covid , the supply of energy , especially oil and gas , to an economy that still depend heavily on those kind of source be very important . let we not pretend that we be on the verge of not have to use oil and gas any long , because 75 % of our energy come from oil and gas , and 5 % come from renewable . even those who want we to rush headlong towards net zero , such as those in the Climate Change Committee , accept that we be still go to have to use fossil fuel well into the next decade and for decade after . therefore , it be important that we examine how we generate those resource . the Bill be also an acceptance by the Government — or there should now be an acceptance — that as we have pursue the net zero agenda we have be put people ' s job at risk . we have see that just in the past week , with 3 , 000 job go in south Wales . Most of the energy - intensive industry in this country have be decimate . we proudly beat our chest and say , " we have reduce our carbon emission , " but if we be honest with ourselves , we will see that all we have do be steal job from this country and move production for vital material overseas , to a place where environmental and work standard , and standard on pollution , be far low than our in this country . so I welcome the fact that the Government be belatedly look again at some of the policy they be pursue . I do not know whether the Bill will increase the number of licence application that be make . it may well be that since the process be already there , it will be as easy as it have be in the past for company to make an application , but at least this signal to company that have reduce their investment in these vital industry that they can , at least with this policy , have some more confidence when they make investment decision . however , I doubt very much , give the Labour party ' s attitude and the fact that we be in a general election year , that that confidence will be engender as much as the Government hope it will be . I do not want to go through all of the argument that have be make , include on the balance of payment . as a result of the natural decline in the North sea and the fact that we have also discourage investment , between 2019 and 2023 we have double the value of energy import per household into the UK , from £ 2 , 100 per household in 2019 to £ 4 , 200 per household in 2023 . we can not ignore the impact that that have on the balance of payment or security of supply , because those import be come from country that be sometimes less stable than we need they to be for energy , which be such a vital resource . the Labour amendment state that this policy " will ensure the UK remain at the mercy of petrostate and dictator who control fossil fuel market " . where be the logic in that ? for example , if we do not get it from the North sea , we will get it from Saudi Arabia , Russia , Venezuela and many other country that use oil as a political weapon , and that be not always well disposed towards we . by diminish our dependence on the oil and gas we can extract from our own territory , we put ourselves at the mercy of those who politicise one of our energy resource . we have to be cognisant of that . the second reason be that we have 200 , 000 job in the sector across the United Kingdom , include , strangely enough , 90 , 000 job in Scotland , which the SNP appear to be quite happy to sacrifice . we have sacrifice job in many energy - intensive industry already . be we now go to sacrifice these often well - pay job and say that there will be a just transition ? many time in this House I have hear the argument that , " oh , all these people who be employ in the oil and gas industry will go into renewable . " well , let we look that . the Government tell we that we have have a huge increase in renewable production . have it result in job for worker in the United Kingdom ? [ hon . member : " yes ! " ] no , of course it have not . where be the windmill make ? where be the steel for the windmill make ? not in Port Talbot , and the steel that be still make there will not be make there for very much long . boat bring it half way around the world from country that make it cheaply , because they use the cheap form of energy . the idea that we would suddenly have all these people employ in the manufacture , installation and maintenance of solar panel and windmill , ev battery factory all over the place , and graduate employ in finance and everything else for the offshore industry have not happen . the just transition be not go to occur . why would we transition when there be still a resource to be exploit by the people who have the skill to do that , and for the benefit of the country ? the third argument I wish to make in favour of the Bill be its necessity . some 84 % of our domestic heating be currently provide by gas , with 5 % from oil ; some 97 % of our travel be drive by fossil fuel ; and some 40 % of our electricity be generate from fossil fuel . that will continue into the future . quite frankly , I doubt whether the argument we have hear about we have to be a global leader in get to net zero ring true with ordinary people who want to heat their house efficiently , cheaply and securely ; drive their car ; get on bus , train and aeroplane , or however they decide to travel ; or ensure that electricity can be supply . we might fool ourselves that we be global leader , but the truth be that we produce 1 % of global emission . other country that , quite rightly , want to industrialise do not heed we . they be go for the cheap form of energy available to they . in some country in Africa , for example , 85 % of people be not even connect to an electricity grid and they do not have the benefit we have , such as turn on a light at night or have a fridge to keep their food fresh and stop it from deteriorate in the heat . it be a bit arrogant of people in the House to say , " and by the way , you might have plenty of coal and oil , but we don ' t want you to use it . we don ' t want you to have the benefit of the cheap energy that give we our prosperity . " cheap energy be the ground of economic growth . I can understand why people do not follow our lead and do their own thing . the idea that because we pass the Bill the whole world will say , " oh , this be terrible . Britain be no long commit to net zero and we be now go to do our own thing . " they be do their own thing anyway . the question many people in the United Kingdom have be what their Government be do to maintain their standard of living — the idea of global leadership be not at the forefront of their thinking . I have some reservation about the Bill . the first , as the hon . member for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) say , be the question of whether the Bill be design to engender confidence . many company look at whether they should put money into apply for license and explore for oil will wonder whether they will find their way block , even with the legislation . they will be ask themselves whether their economic opportunity will be block by judicial review , and by people who simply say , " the UK ' s target for global emission be go to be meet , in part , by reduce oil production in our own country , and as a result of the Bill and grant license , the target will be miss and we will judicially review it . " I doubt very much that the Bill will engender the confidence the Minister be hope it will if there be likely to be a judicial review , or if there be a path open and the basis upon which to make a judicial review . secondly , as hon . member have argue , if we be go to exploit the oil we have and benefit from it , then it be well to keep it in our own country and ensure that it be use in our own country . some 88 % of the gas we extract be use in the UK because we have the network for it to feed into , so it can be use and sell in the UK . the hon . member for East Lothian ( Kenny MacAskill ) raise the issue of Grangemouth , which be not the only example of the fact that we do not invest in facility for refine oil in the United Kingdom . why not ? because oil refining be an oil - intensive industry , so give all the carbon taxis and the barrier put in the way of carbon - intensive industry , no investment be take place , or have take place for decade . so what do we do ? we extract it and send it elsewhere . we bring it back , most often , but would it not be of benefit to ensure that it stay in the United Kingdom because we have the facility for process it here ? my final reservation be that when those who might form the next government of the United Kingdom be determined to undo all this legislation , how will that engender confidence ? I know that I be probably in a minority when it come to the debate , but there be a debate to be have with the ideologue who be drive a policy that most people in this House can well afford . People may say that the cost of energy will not go up as a result of renewable , but just this week the chief executive of Siemens , the big producer of electricity from wind in the United Kingdom , say that high bill be inevitable as we grapple with the huge cost of generate wind power because of inflation and the cost of maintenance , fault and breakdown . he say : " every transformation come at a cost and every transformation be painful . and that ' s something which the energy industry and the public sector — government — don ' t really want to hear . " unfortunately , that be the battle that we face . there be those in this House who be wed to an ideology and will drive it through regardless of the impact that it have on our constituent . how many crocodile tear have be cry by member in this House when they see people lose their job in energy - intensive industry and then , in the next breath , say that the Government be not go hard enough to reach net zero ? there be a divide between those who be drive by this ideology and the ordinary people in the country who live with the consequence of it . if this Bill be at least a start in try to redress that imbalance then I welcome it . just last month , COP28 make history by acknowledge for the first time the need to transition away from fossil fuel . it should not have take 28 cop to accept what scientist have know for decade . despite all the vested interest at play , the effort of hundred of lobbyist , and the huge sum pour into prevent climate action , the truth become impossible to ignore . the effect of climate chaos be now in plain sight : 10 of the hot year on record , as mention previously in this debate , all happen in the past decade , and the speed of change be only increase . to avert catastrophe , we must work now towards a fossil - free future . why do our Government insist on keep we in the past and try to build our recovery on a resource that the world have formally commit to move away from ? the Government claim that it be about lower household bill , but even the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero have admit that it will not do that . the energy generate from new oil and gas would not belong to the british people , power our home for cheap , it would be in the hand of private company and sell on the global market for internationally set price . it would be own by those same energy company that have already make record - break profit in the cost of living crisis , while 13 million household sit in the cold last winter , too scared to turn on the heating . Madam Deputy Speaker , those corporation do not need any more state handout . if the Government really care about energy bill , they would be fund a mass programme of insulate home , which the Tories slash support for in 2013 . if they care about secure our future , they would be focus on invest in publicly own home - grow renewable , which have never be cheap . they would be deliver a green new deal to protect our living standard and our planet for decade to come . therefore , if not to lower our bill now , to ensure energy security in the future , and to enable a green transition , why be the Government push through this dangerous and unpopular Bill ? be it just to annoy environmentalist and turn climate policy into a wedge issue ? or could it have anything to do with the fact that the Conservatives have take £ 3 . 5 million in a year from big polluter , climate denier and fossil fuel interest ? Madam Deputy Speaker , when justify this act of climate vandalism , the Government like to reference the Climate Change Committee . unfortunately , though , they have misrepresent the advice of that Committee to the point that its chair , Piers Forster , have be force to speak out . in response to the Government ' s false claim , he say : " UK oil and gas consumption need to fall by over 80 % to meet UK target . this and the COP … decision … make further licensing inconsistent with climate goal . " it be not only embarrassing , but deeply concern that , on an issue as important as the future of our planet , the Government be either unable or unwilling to understand expert advice . it be not just the Climate Change Committee that have warn against new fossil fuel , so , too , have the UN Secretary - General . [ interruption . ] conservative Members would do well to listen to this . he call on all nation to " cease all licensing or funding of new oil and gas . " in addition , the International Institute for Sustainable Development have say that " no new oil and gas development be possible if the world be to stay within the Paris agreement temperature limit . " the director of the International Energy Agency say : " if government be serious about the climate crisis , there can be no new investment in oil , gas and coal " . moreover , more than 700 scientist write to the Prime Minister last year , ask he to halt the licensing . should we be take advice from hundred of lead climate expert or from lobbyist for fossil fuel industry ? the Bill in front of we will not solve any of our problem . it will just contribute to wreck the planet and undermine our climate creditability on the international stage . for the sake of our future and our planet , I urge the House to vote down this dangerous Bill . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) . it be slightly less of a pleasure to listen to the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) ; I want to say a few word about the case that he make . it reach new depth to suggest that the poor people in the country will somehow be well off if we continue exploit more oil and gas when clearly new and exist oil and gas be so expensive . he cite a comment by Siemens about the expensiveness of renewable , but that be precisely because they be link to the price of gas . that be why we need to reform the totally out of date electricity and gas system that we have in this country . it tell we all we need to know about this cynical and fail Government that the legislation they choose to debate first in 2024 be a Bill to mandate the annual licensing of oil and gas product in the North sea ; not legislation that rise to the immediate challenge that we face as a society — from the cost of live scandal , which see family unable to meet their basic need , to the planetary emergency rapidly unfold before our eye — but instead a Bill that be frankly no more than a political stunt at home , yet at the same time a very dangerous signal to other country abroad of a UK double down on the fossil fuel economy . the reality , as many have say , be that the Bill be entirely redundant , with even the North Sea Transition Authority express its " unanimous " view that it be not need . as the Minister know perfectly well , there have be annual licensing round for most of the past decade , drive by the frankly obscene duty to maximise the economic recovery of UK petroleum . despite the hundred of licence that have be issue in that time , a paltry 16 day ' worth of gas have be produce . as other have say , it have be estimate that , between now and 2050 , new licence would provide the equivalent of just four day ' worth of gas each year , so it be hardly the energy security that we have be promise and that we have hear so much about from the Conservative Benches over the past three or four hour . of course , any oil and gas , which be extract , will be own by company and sell on the international market to the high bidder — unless the Government , unbeknown to we , have in mind the renationalisation of energy , which would be a very interesting conversation to have , but when I last check , that be not their policy . this oil and gas in the North sea do not belong to the Government and it will not bring down bill . let we not forget either that 80 % of UK oil be currently export , as be the equivalent of more than 60 % of gross gas production last year . I be grateful to the hon . member for give way . one such example be Gazprom International UK , which continue to produce gas from the North sea last year . this subsidiary company pay a € 1 . 7 million dividend in June 2023 . do she not think it hypocritical of this Conservative Government to talk about this Bill in term of national security , while , simultaneously , allow a russian energy giant to extract gas from the North sea and pay taxis in Moscow ? I thank the hon . member for his point and it be incredibly well make . I shall say a little more on that subject very shortly . essentially , this Bill be nothing more than reckless political theatre . it be nothing more than a cynical attempt to stoke yet more division and weaponise much - need climate action in some misguided sense that , somehow , this will save the Prime Minister ' s skin . while the Bill serve at home to highlight the impotence of the Government , sadly its international impact be far - reach . despite the Prime Minister ' s fairly evidence - free claim at COP28 that the UK be lead by example , the reality be that create a climate culture war , scrap vital policy and issue new fossil fuel licence be the very opposite of climate leadership . the Bill send a dangerous signal and undermine global effort to address the climate emergency by hamper diplomacy and legitimise extraction in other country . as Lord Deben , former chair of the Climate Change Committee , say : " how can we ask other nation not to expand the fossil fuel production if we start do it ourselves ? " it be frankly a scandal that the UK be among just five country in the global north that be responsible for more than half the plan expansion of new oil and gas field up to 2050 . while minister like to claim that , even with continued licensing , production from the UK continental shelf be project to decline at 7 % annually , what matter be not whether we be produce less relative to some previous time but whether the oil and gas that we be produce now be compatible with our climate goal . clearly it be not , with the UN production gap report warn that government already plan to produce far more than double the amount of fossil fuel in 2030 than would be consistent with limit heating to 1 . 5 ° . the Government ' s defence of the Bill , and of the continued licensing of more oil and gas in the North sea as a whole , imply that somehow the UK operate in a vacuum , and domestic decision have no bearing on our ability to meet our international climate target . that clearly be not the case . it be no surprise , then , that Professor Piers Forster , the interim chair of the Climate Change Committee , have say : " UK oil and gas consumption need to fall by over 80 % to meet UK target . this and Cop decision make further licensing inconsistent with climate goal . " when talk about inconsistency with our climate goal , we could also talk about hypocrisy . since a climate emergency be declare in this very Chamber in 2019 , no few than 17 new field have be approve : Laverda , Barnacle , Cadet , Sillimanite , Blythe , Elgood , Southwark , Evelyn , Abigail , Jackdaw , Tommeliten , Talbot , Teal West , Murlach , Alwyn East , Rosebank , and most recently victory . mention Rosebank give I an opportunity to come back to an issue that have be touch on a few time tonight : the scale of fossil fuel subsidy . we have hear a load of guff from Conservative Members about the importance of tax revenue from oil and gas , yet look at the amount of money we be give to the oil and gas industry . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) speak about tax revenue go to Russia . we could also point out that the UK taxpayer will hand over no less than the equivalent of £ 3 . 75 billion to Equinor to develop the Rosebank site , because of the massive loophole in the windfall tax that mean that for every £ 100 invest , £ 91 . 40 can be claim back . a bit of clarity on these issue would help . section 20 of the Environment Act 2021 require that a statement be make on the front of the Bill say whether it be in line with other environmental law . the Secretary of State claim in her statement that " the Bill will not have the effect of reduce the level of environmental protection provide for by any exist environmental law . " to I , that seem extraordinary because , even if one believe that the carbon intensity test would make a difference , the annual licensing round under the Bill could easily cancel out any predict carbon saving and lead to an overall increase in emission . I hope that she will tell we what modelling be undertake to inform her section 20 statement . look at its content more closely , the Bill propose two so - call test , which be set so ludicrously low they be impossible to fail . the first be the carbon intensity test , which be meet if the carbon intensity of domestically produce gas be low than that of import liquefy natural gas . that test not only ignore the fact that more than half our gas import come from Norway — via a pipeline , as we have establish — where gas production be half as pollute as in the UK , but in only consider gas , it fail to take account of the fact that 70 % of remain North sea oil reserve be oil . in any case , compare the carbon intensity at the point of production rather than combustion exaggerate the difference between different source , give that the vast majority of emission be produce when any oil or gas be burn . in other word , they be scope 3 emission , which remain unaccounted for . the second test be the net importer test , which will be meet if the amount of oil and gas produce in the UK be less than the UK ' s demand for oil and gas . surely that question would be much well address by reduce demand rather than produce more planet - heat oil and gas , yet the Government seem incapable of pursue demand reduction in any meaningful way . what should the Government do instead ? if they be actually interested in cut household bill and deliver energy security , they would be work to get we off expensive gas for good , rather than continue to tether we to volatile international market . the National Infrastructure Commission have be really clear : " Reliance on fossil fuel mean exposure to geopolitical shock that impact the price of these internationally trade commodity . " in its 2022 energy outlook report , the IEA report that a high share of renewable correlate with low electricity price in response to the energy crisis , with energy efficiency and heat electrification provide an important buffer for household . at a time when , as we have hear , 6 million family in the UK be live in fuel poverty this winter , we have to ask why the Government be double down on the very thing at the heart of the crisis . the Government should instead be deliver a meaningful just transition that genuinely meet the need of worker and community , rather than temporarily prop up insecure job that we know will not exist in year to come . we have hear the rhetoric from Conservative Members pretend that those of we who want to accelerate a transition to a green economy do not have people ' s job in mind . that be totally untrue ; it be precisely because we care about people ' s job that we want they to have sustainable job into the future — good - quality , decent job — and be not pretend that drain resource in the North sea will somehow provide a sustainable livelihood in year to come . there should be a massive scaling - up of renewable , and we should back cheap and abundant energy source such as onshore wind , for which a grand total of zero application have be submit since planning rule be change in September . there should be a nationwide , street - by - street energy efficiency programme to ensure that family have warm home for the long term , rather than scrap the upgrade in standard of private rent home , which accord to the Climate Change Committee could have save tenant £ 250 a year , even at so - call normal price let alone at a time when price be spiral . again , what an indictment of the Government . remember the green deal back in 2012 ? the Government set the interest rate so ridiculously high , as we all say at the time , that unsurprisingly the whole plan collapse . those home be not insulate and plenty of energy company , include in my constituency , go bust as a result . the Government be incompetent as well as totally ideologically drive . the Government should be properly tax the filthy profit of oil and gas company rather than foist the cost of new development on to the taxpayer , and they should urgently withdraw from the dangerous energy charter treaty , which — it beggar belief — allow we to be sue by fossil fuel company . a fair and green energy system be entirely possible , but it require both imagination and investment — two quality that I do not associate with the Government . the legislation make it painfully clear that the Government be wilfully ignore the lesson of both the climate and the energy crisis , and be once again privilege their own interest above the wellbeing of people and planet . the Bill send exactly the wrong signal at the wrong time , and actively undermine global effort to address the climate emergency by hamper diplomacy and give the green light to further extraction right around the world . it be not what leadership look like , it be not what this moment demand , and all our constituent deserve well . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) . while we do not always agree on everything , there be many thing that we do agree on . I , too , would like to see the mass scale - up of renewable , but I also want to be pragmatic about where we be , some of thing that we need to do , and what the Bill do . the issue of energy be one that impact every person in the UK , from the one - bed flat owner to the 200 - bed hotel owner . the ability to secure safe and reliable energy be essential , and spiral cost be have an effect on the day - to - day life of people throughout the UK . I think it be important that I make this point and perhaps explain where I be personally on the matter . I grow up , and other in the House be probably the same , in an age of throw another jumper on . my child use to laugh at the story I tell they of how cold it have to be before the heating be turn on . for we today , it be no long a laugh matter for many people . my researcher , who own a modest home , have to put more than £ 250 of gas into her home in December . she be at home during term - time with the child . she tell I that the gas be not even run constantly ; it be turn off whenever she go to visit her parent or her husband ' s parent or go out . I think of how much more a wee — I use that word often in the House as a descriptor — widow pensioner would be pay in their home when they be there almost all day , every day . that figure be not one that their pension and a single winter fuel payment could cover . there be only so many jumper that someone can put on , and a jumper do not help with a damp wall . it be clear that the cost of energy dictate what step we take to secure the current energy supply , while also stride for new alternative renewable energy source . as many in this place will have hear I say on numerous occasion , tidal energy in Strangford lough and other such area need a great deal of funding . the pilot scheme work , but it be at the wrong time because the cost of the energy that it produce be not financially feasible , but it would be now . if we can harness that power , which be as reliable as the sun rise in the morning , we be on to a winner . however , I understand that that be not the point of today ' s debate and will leave it at that . the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero be in her place , and I know the Government have take giant step to meet the net zero target and have commit themselves to green energy . I wish to put on the record that I be committed to the same target as well , but we need to strike a balance . the balance that I put forward to the House — and I wish to make a declaration — be from my point of view as a farmer . we own land . my neighbour be all dairy man or farmer of beef , cattle and sheep . they be willing to commit themselves to the net zero target because they see that net zero be something that must be do . as part of that target , they must reduce the number of their animal . that be not possible to do while continue to have a feasible and financially viable farm . there be other thing that the farmer wish to do . in the countryside where I live there be not enough electric vehicle point , so people do not buy an electric or hybrid car , probably because all the EV point be up in Newtownards . I drive a diesel vehicle — have do all my day and , if I be spare , will probably continue to do so because I believe that it be a choice . it be a choice we may not wish to make every time , but be one that we have to make because electric car be just not feasible because the EV point be just not there . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the National Farmers Union have be positive on many of these issue ? do he agree with what it say about hydrogen be a source of sustainable power in the future , and that it be come soon ? I thank my hon . friend — I call he that because I have great respect for he — and agree wholeheartedly with what he have just say . the farming community , the NFU and the Ulster Farmers ' Union be clearly commit to the target . they be commit to look at the alternative , but the alternative have to be practical . the point I be try to make be that it be about where thing be practical . there be no doubt that to meet not just our net zero target but , more importantly , our environmental obligation , we need to do a well job of access and use renewable energy fuel . however , the fact be we will simply not be there any time soon and , in the meantime , it be vital that we secure safety and security for our constituent . I support the aim of the Bill , which would enhance the procedure currently in place , and note that no financial hardship should be pass on through the Bill . that be vital as I know that household be struggle with the current pressure . no long be it a matter simply for household in poverty , work family with decent wage be be affect . it be a transition . it be about meet our net zero target and increase green energy and renewable , which my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) refer to . at the same time , the Bill give we the opportunity to progress those renewable in a way that be positive in the short term . the Library briefing make it clear that license round be run when the NSTA decide they be necessary . however , it should be highlight that they have be hold broadly on an annual basis up to the 32nd licensing round , which open in 2019 . the late — 33rd — licensing round be launch in October 2022 , follow the introduction of a climate compatibility checkpoint in September 2022 . in October 2023 , 27 new licence be award as part of that licensing round . that be not onerous , but it be necessary not just to safeguard our industry by enhance investor and industry confidence , as the Government have highlight , but to ensure that we do not see family scrape penny together to afford heat . my contribution to the debate be clearly for those who be in energy difficulty . today , the paper refer to food bank referral be up some 30 % . the food bank in my constituency of Strangford in my major town of Newtownards see a 30 % increase in referral over December and early January from people who be middle class who be find it difficult to deal with energy price . I know of several young family who usually enjoy a few day away when the kid be off at Christmas , and they tell I that they be just not able to do it this year . People may say , " for goodness sake , they can ' t go on holiday … " I be not say that because it be their right to have that break , but I be highlight the knock - on effect for family of increase price be that they can not afford to sow into the local economy in the way they use to . that mean the little 20 - bed hotel they usually visit do not get their business . the knock - on effect be that they do not hire the clean for as many hour . her income drop , and she can not spend the way she usually do , so the knock - on effect continue . we need the people who spend locally to do so , and for they to do that , energy bill need to be manageable . we be fail when it come to energy provision . if the Bill help safeguard our provision as we continue to find well way to source reliable renewable energy , I support that . when the Minister or Secretary of State sum up , if they could give we that reassurance , I would be a whole lot happy about this debate . of course , we need to explore tidal energy , but safeguard domestic production can go hand in hand with that . indeed , it must do so . I be committed to renewable , green energy possibility and net zero target because the farming community that I live in want to commit themselves to that as well . I support our family , our vulnerable , ill and elderly , and those live in cold , damp home because they can not afford to do otherwise . therefore , at this stage , I support the Bill on behalf of all those struggle to heat their home and keep their family warm . we must commit ourselves to more renewable and ensure that the renewable percentage rise . if it rise , we can reduce gas and petroleum usage . by do so , we can balance the process . that be what I be hope for from the Minister ' s reply ; I hope we can deliver that . before I call the shadow Minister , I want to emphasise again , and I will do so when he have finish , how important it be for those who have contribute to the debate to be here for the wind - up . I call the shadow Minister . we have have an excellent and pointed debate this evening . certainly , Opposition Members have together point out the deficiency in the Bill , point out what a specious and potentially damaging Bill it be and , indeed , question why the Bill be bring to the House in the first place . all that be what I very much want to do . my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) call this Bill " illogical and damaging " and point out that it could put marine protect area at risk . my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) point out that it make we look ridiculous on the world stage . my hon . friend the Member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) point out that the Bill itself be base on a series of lie and , indeed , quote the UN Secretary - General state that " the truly dangerous radical " be the country that be increase their oil and gas output . my hon . friend the Member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) point out strongly that this Bill , contrary to its claim , be not about energy security . my hon . friend the Member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) , who remind we of the real effect of climate change right now , point out that the future be largely electric and this Bill be a " great deception " . the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) call it stupid , unnecessary and dangerous — she do not mince her word very much . my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) lay many of the myth of the Bill to rest and question why the Government be push it in the first place . the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) point out the " political theatre " behind the Bill and why it be completely incompatible with our climate change commitment . this really be a reprehensible Bill . it be a Bill base on a number of myth and , frankly , lie , which require people to believe that there be people around really say that oil and gas be go to be stop immediately and will not continue to play a substantial role , as it will in the energy economy up to 2050 . no one be say that oil and gas will not continue up to a period of time and no one be say that the exist field in the UK will not continue to produce and contribute their product in the future . there will be job in that continue North sea oil operation . however , this be a one - clause Bill with effectively two section in it . the first section ostentatiously require the Oil and Gas Authority to do what it be already do ; indeed , both the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) and the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion remind we that the Oil and Gas Authority have be carry out regular licensing round every 18 month since 2016 . it be require to do so because it be bind by the maximum economic extraction requirement . all that be already in legislation and the Oil and Gas Authority be already do it . the second section set out an entirely bogus climate test , which by definition can not be fail . that be achieve by skew the test condition to test UK gas production emission only against aggregate liquefy natural gas import , which be overall likely to be dirty in production than UK gas , and not against pipeline - deliver gas that , in the case of our main importer Norway , be half as dirty in production as gas in the UK . there be no emission test for oil , despite its constitute 70 % of North sea fossil reserve — 80 % of which , as we have hear , be ship and refine overseas . for oil there be a " net importer " test , which require the OGA to issue licence if the demand for oil and gas product in the UK be great than the production — when that have be the case in the North sea for 20 year , with no prospect of reversal . it be a Bill build on completely bogus premise . the hon . Gentleman be talk about bogus premise , but he just suggest that we could get more pipeline gas from Norway . do he not recognise that if we do not produce as much gas here , it will not be gas from Norway that we can access but will inevitably be LNG with high emission ? will he please , for the benefit of the House , step up and be honest ? we do not have the option to get massively more gas from Norway — if we do , we would have do it already . I think I be go to get injury time for that intervention . if the Minister have be listen to what I be say , he would know that I be state that the Bill , in a very bogus way , have deliberately sidestep the fact that there be gas available for import that be much clean than our in its production . we should use that as a test , but the only test carry out be on LNG which , conveniently , be a little bit dirty than the gas we produce in this country . the Bill be about not what it say as much as what it do . as the former Energy Minister and author of the Government net zero report , the former right hon . member for Kingswood , say recently , the Bill go against everything the UK be say internationally about move away from oil and gas , and it have already damage our international stance by appear to double down on precisely the thing to which we be say the opposite on the world stage . the right hon . member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) , the former president of Glasgow COP , say in a courageous and precise speech this evening that the Bill put into legislation something that already happen under the agency of the OGA . he also state that its sole purpose be to double down on more oil and that nation around the world will not take that very kindly as far as our commitment be concern . the OGA itself emphasise that the Bill be " not necessary " , but " would significantly challenge one of the tenet of independence for the NSTA , to decide when to run a licensing round . " whatever the position in the North sea objectively , the OGA would be force to scrape up at least a licence a year forever . we know the claim that that would somehow do something for energy security be also bogus . the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) recently say that " new oil and gas licence only provide for energy security if all that energy be sell into the UK and , actually , it will be sell on the world market " — a point that a number of member have make this afternoon . the whole Bill appear to have come about as a result of a wheeze , cook up by a couple of strategy adviser over a heavy lunch , to put the opposition on the wrong foot — or , to put it another way , on the right side of history . quite honestly , that wheeze should have be put down as soon as the effect of the heavy lunch wear off , but instead it have persist through the corridor of power and have finally make it to the Floor of the House in the shape of this risible Bill , the content of which evaporate on the first examination by anybody of its serious purpose . that say rather more about the state of the Government than anything else . where be the quality control on policy making ? how do something so evidently content - free and fact - averse as this piece of legislation ever make it so far ? how do the present departmental Government Ministers , for whom I have a great deal of respect , allow it to happen on their watch , when they must know it be a load of hokum with no policy merit at all ? now they be force to go out and try to justify it to the House . it be a very sad reflection of what a tiny , bitter and sad space the Government have retreat into , where serious policy development in the energy sphere — God know we have enough of that to be work on — be replace by such ill - advise emptiness . that be what this Bill be , in the end : just empty . if pass , it will linger on the statute book for a short period , make no difference to anything in the meantime and be rapidly overtake by the reality of the forward march to decarbonisation in energy . however , the Bill will have one last effect , as I have mention , because it signal strongly and , I be afraid , potentially lastingly that the UK be not serious about its climate and net zero ambition and be prepared to say duplicitous thing on both an international and a national stage . that be bad news for all the genuine work that have so far be do by the UK on net zero climate leadership . this Bill will not stick , but that charge might . for that reason , if for no other of the many reason that have be put forward in this debate , it be good that we take this Bill no far than second reading and refuse as a House to let it pass to further stage . I thank my right hon . friend the Members for read West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) and for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) , for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) , for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) , for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) , for Broadland ( Jerome Mayhew ) and for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) for their contribution to this interesting debate . the UK be the global climate leader . it be under this government that that position have be secure . how be it to be measure ? do we have objective measure ? of course we have . the central challenge be to reduce emission , and under the Conservatives this country have reduce emission by more than any major economy on earth . how have we do that ? have it be an accident ? no , it have not . we inherit an absolutely awful situation . we hear from the hon . member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) about her time in government , and she talk strongly about the work that Labour do on renewable . well , it do not add up to much under she and the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) . renewable be less than 7 % of our electricity in 2010 . now , that have be transform . coal — the dirty of fossil fuel — be a far ghastly legacy of the Labour party . we hear so much piety from Labour Members , but what be their performance in government ? I will tell you , Madam Deputy Speaker : it be failure . nearly 40 % of our electricity come from coal as recently as 2012 . by October this year , it will be zero . it be the Conservative Government who have stay laser - focused on deliver climate leadership , and it be in that light that this legislation come before the House . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) , ask why we have introduce the Bill . the Labour party , the Scottish National party and , of course , the liberal Democrats say that we must have no new licensing in the North sea , even as our production be expect to halve over the next decade , and despite the fact that if we fulfil our world - lead ambition for 2030 and 2035 , which we will , production of oil and gas in the North sea will fall even fast in the country that be decarbonise more than any other major economy on earth . that be the reality ; that be the context for the Bill , which bring in annual licensing . rise — the Labour party will support oil and gas job — just not in this country . not have new licence here will make no difference whatsoever to our consumption , but it will make a difference to how much we have to import , and our import dependency will go up . bad than that for those of we who care about the environment , and to put in their place the piety that we hear from Opposition party , it will actually lead to import with high emission than production here , as the right hon . member for Doncaster North and other Labour Members know , and will worsen our ability to move to net zero in the short term . that be not to mention the 200 , 000 job support throughout the country , 90 , 000 - plus of which be in the north - east of Scotland and be abandon by the Scottish National party . rise — the measure will make no difference to our consumption and no difference to world consumption because we be net importer . we be not spill our product on to global market . our oil , for instance , which the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) often mention , be refine at european refinery . it be then turn into product that we can use here . it contribute directly to european and UK energy security . rise — if member oppose the Bill and allow no new licensing , the impact will be high emission , and they will not see the investment that we be see in new project such as Rosebank . what be the carbon footprint of the product from Rosebank ? it be expect to be much low than the average across the North sea and what be expect globally . so , again , not only do close off licensing mean that we will import more , but it will get in the way of investment into and transformation of our base . I want to see far less import LNG . can the Minister give we some good news on what we might be able to achieve in get more gas out , and will he ensure that many block — not just one — be put up for a licence round to get rid of that LNG ? the estimate from the North Sea Transition Authority be that a billion of barrel of oil equivalent , include gas , would be lose if we do not have new licence . that be lose tax revenue for this country , on top of the 200 , 000 job and low emission — [ interruption . ] so far , I have not mention the ten of billion of pound of tax . [ interruption . ] it be not surprising , give how comprehensively easy it be to destroy the Labour party ' s argument , that the right hon . member for Doncaster North keep up his constant chuntering . he can not win the argument while he be on his foot , so he sit there and try interrupt those who can . if we do not have new licensing , which be Labour ' s policy , we will see emission go up in the short term ; 200 , 000 job undermine ; ten of billion in tax not bring into the public Exchequer ; and — for those who care about deal with the climate emergency — we will lose the very engineering skill and talent that we need to retain in this country in order to make the transition . rise — in the time I have , I will try to respond to a few of the point that have be make by colleague . my hon . friend the Member for Waveney highlight the commitment of oil and gas company to net zero . oil and gas business be fund clean energy work . the hon . member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) pick on one such business , and it turn out that it be invest heavily in our clean energy transition . my hon . friend the Member for Moray talk about fight for those 90 , 000 scottish worker . I have already mention the hon . member for Llanelli and her rather risible attempt to suggest that Labour have any sort of record on renewable . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central emphasise the importance of oil and gas worker to CCUS , which be absolutely essential . my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan say that we be reduce production at twice the rate require internationally . that be true , and it be why new licensing in the North sea be fully align with net zero ; those emission be part of that . the hon . member for East Lothian ( Kenny MacAskill ) talk about oil and gas be essential to deliver renewable , and support new licensing . I thank he for that . my hon . friend the Member for Broadland say that what we use be what count — that be so true . the most important thing be to look at demand : remove and change vehicle , factory and home so that they no long use oil and gas be absolutely central . my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford rightly say how important it be that we present this policy correctly . of course , if only the Labour party be play a proper and honest part in that , we would be able to champion the tremendous performance of this country in tackle climate change . I really do appreciate the speech that my right hon . Friend make . will the Minister give way ? the hon . member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) talk about the zero - carbon home standard , and the importance of improve the insulation and energy efficiency of home . he be quite right ; that be why this Government have go from the terrible position of just 14 % of home have decent insulation — EPC rate c or above — when we come to power , to above 50 % today . I fundamentally disagree with the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) about net zero , but he correctly highlight that we would just be sacrifice well - pay job without make any difference to our emission , apart from put they up . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have be in this House long than most people , and it be a courtesy to the House in a wind - up speech to give way in an even - handed way . this Minister have give way to a Conservative Member , but he refuse to take any intervention from the opposition . I thank the hon . gentleman for that point of order . it be up to the Minister to decide to whom he give way . it would be slightly more usual for he to give way to member who have be in the Chamber throughout the debate . however , it be up to he to decide . and I really do not like point of order in the middle of wind - up speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . will the Minister give way ? you have give your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker , which be to give way to those who have be in the Chamber for the debate , not to Johnny - come - latelie who come in and want to usurp they . the right hon . member for East Antrim also highlight an excellent point about the hypocrisy and humbug that be absolutely central to labour ' s response to this Bill . will the Minister give way ? if the hon . Gentleman , who have hardly be here , would sit down , I will fortunately be able to come to a close . the amendment put forward by his Majesty ' s opposition suggest that maximise the fall production from the North sea will put we at the great mercy of petrostate . that be so obviously untrue that I hope they would hold their head in shame about it . that have be at the heart of the Opposition ' s approach to this Bill . the Bill be design to send a signal to the industry that we have its back . it be all about ensure that we get to net zero in the most efficient and effective manner possible , and it will underpin this Government ' s continued leadership on climate now and for many year to come . I urge the House to support the Bill . well , that be lively . [ laughter . ] now that I have Members ' attention , I want to emphasise how important it be for those who have participate in debate to get back in good time for the winding - up speech . when the wind - up come up early , please just keep an eye out for they and make sure to come back , because people who have participate will be mention in the wind - up and it be courteous to be here to hear they . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . could I just make it clear to the House that I be not here for the main debate , but come in for the wind - up , because I be chair a committee look at the future of hydrogen ? I apologise to the House that I be delay . thank you . I thank the hon . gentleman for that clarification . nevertheless , it be true that it be up to the Minister to decide to whom he want to give way . question put , that the amendment be make . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Mary Foy Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Daniel Zeichner Kim Leadbeater Mary Glindon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Bob Neill Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Charles Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jacob Young Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson the House divide : Ayes 209 , Noes 292 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Bob Neill Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Charles Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jacob Young Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Mary Foy Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Daniel Zeichner Kim Leadbeater Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 293 , Noes 211 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after their commencement . ( 3 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion four hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 5 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , I will put motion 3 to 8 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Health Care that the draft Anaesthesia Associates and Physician Associates Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 13 December 2023 , be approve . Financial Services and Markets that the draft Public Offers and Admissions to Trading Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 27 November 2023 , be approve . that the draft Securitisation Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 27 November 2023 , be approve . Financial Services that the draft Financial Services Act 2021 ( Overseas Funds Regime and Recognition of Parts of Schemes ) ( Amendment and Modification ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 4 December 2023 , be approve . Financial Services and Markets that the draft Data Reporting Services Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 27 November 2023 , be approve . agriculture that the draft Wine ( Amendment ) ( England ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 4 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . with the leave of the House , I will put motion 9 to 14 together . Committees Ordered , Environment , Food and Rural Affairs that Robbie Moore be discharge from the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee and Selaine Saxby be add . education that Miriam Cates be discharge from the Education Committee and Vicky Ford be add . environmental Audit that Chris Grayling be add to the Environmental Audit Committee . Northern Ireland Affairs that Mr Robin Walker be discharge from the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee and Kelly Tolhurst be add . Scottish Affairs that Andrew Western be discharge from the Scottish Affairs Committee and Michael Shanks be add . Welsh Affairs that Wayne David be discharge from the Welsh Affairs Committee and Tonia Antoniazzi be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) AI scam : Consumer Protection Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Scott Mann . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to raise this important topic of protect consumer from artificial intelligence scam , or AI scam as I will refer to they . I understand that this topic have not be debate specifically in this House before , but it have be reference in multiple debate . I can understand why this topic be new . at one point it may well have be science fiction , but now it be science fact . not only that , it be probably a matter of fact that society be increasingly at risk of technology - drive crime and criminality . a new category , which I call ai - assist criminal and AI - assist crime , be emerge . they can operate anywhere in the world , know everything about their choose victim and be seemingly invisible to detection . this ai - assist crime be grow and become ever more sophisticated . I will share some example in my speech , but let we address the big picture before I begin . first , I appreciate that this entire debate may be new to many . what exactly be an AI scam ? why do consumer even need to be protect from something that many would argue do not yet exist ? let we step back slightly to explain the big picture . we live in a world where social medium be everywhere : in our life , our home and our pocket . social medium have connect community in way we never think possible . but for all the positive , it be also , as I see as a member of the Online Safety Public Bill Committee , full of risk and harm . we share our thought , our connection and , most notably , our datum . I be confident that if any Government ask citizen to share the same personal datum that many give away for free to social media platform , there would be uproar and probably march on the street ; but every day , for the benefit of free usage , relevant advertisement and , ultimately , convenience , our life be share by we , in detail , with friend and family and , in some case , the entire world . we have , ultimately , become data source , and my fear be that this datum — this personal datum — will be harvest increasingly for use with AI for criminal purpose . when I say " datum " , I do not just mean a person ' s name or birth date , the name of friend , family and colleague , their job or their place of work , but their face , their voice , their fear and their hope , their very identity . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on raise this issue . there be 5 , 400 case of fraud in Northern Ireland last year , which cost we some £ 23 . 1 million . there be the fraud experience by business when fraudster pose as legitimate organisation seek personal or financial detail , there be identity theft , and now there be the AI scam that require consumer protection . do the hon . Gentleman agree that more must be do to ensure that our vulnerable and possibly old constituent be aware of the warn sign to look out for , in order to protect they and their hard - earn finance from scammer and now , in particular , the AI scamming that could lead to a tragedy for many of those elderly and vulnerable people ? I absolutely agree with the hon . Gentleman . I fear that this be yet another opportunity for criminal to scam the most vulnerable , and that it will reach across the digital divide in way that we can not even imagine . as I have say , this concern the very identity that we have online . this datum can ultimately be harvest by criminal to scam , to fool , to threaten or even to blackmail . the victim send their hard - earn cash to the criminal before the criminal disappear into the ether - net . some may argue that I be fearmongere and that I be somehow against progress , but I be not . I see the vast benefit of AI . I see the opportunity in healthcare for early diagnosis , improve patient ' experience , enable a single - patient view across health and social care so that disparate system can work together and treatment involve not just individual body part , but individual themselves . AI will improve efficiency in business through customer service and personalisation , and will do so many other wonderful thing . it will , for instance , create a new generation of job and opportunity . however , we must recognise that AI be like fire : it can be both good and bad . fire can warm our home and keep we safe , or , unwatched , can burn it down . the rapidly emerge harm that I be raise be so fast - move that we may be engulf by they before we realise the risk . I be not a lone voice on this . back in 2020 , the Dawes Centre for Future Crime at UCL produce a report on AI - enable future crime . it place audio / visual impersonation at the top of the list of for " high concern " crime , along with tailor phishing and large - scale blackmail . more recently , in May 2023 , a McAfee cybersecurity artificial intelligence report entitle " beware the Artificial Impostor " share the risk of voice clone and deepfake , and reveal how common AI voice scam be , attack many more people in their life and their home . only a quarter of adult survey have share experience of such a scam , although that will increase over time , and only 36 % of the adult question have even hear of voice - enable scam . the practice be grow more rapidly than the number of people who be aware that it exist in the first place . I will share my thought on education and prevention later in my speech . increasingly online there be example of deepfake and AI impersonation be use both for entertainment and as warning . many will now have hear of a deepfake , from a " Taylor Swift " supposedly sell kitchenware , to various actor be replace by deepfake in famous role — Jim Carrey in " the shining " , for example . many may be view as a bit of fun to watch , until one realise the danger and risk that AI such as deepfake and clone audio can pose . an example be the frightening deepfake video of Volodymyr Zelensky that be broadcast on hack ukrainian tv falsely order the country ' s troop to surrender to Russia . thankfully , people spot it and know that it be not real . we also know that there be big risk for the upcoming election here , in the US and elsewhere in the world , and for democracy itself . the challenge be that the ease with which convince deepfake and cloned voice can be make be rapidly open up scam opportunity on an unprecedented scale , affect not only politician and celebrity but individual in their own home . the challenge we face be that fraudster be often not necessarily close to home . a recent report by which ? point out that the City of London police estimate that over 70 % of fraud experience by UK victim could have an international component , either involve offender in the UK and overseas work together or the fraud be drive solely by a fraudster base outside the UK . which ? also share how AI tool such as ChatGPT and Bard can be use to create convincing corporate email from the like of PayPal that could be misuse by unscrupulous fraudster . in this instance , such AI - assist crime be simply an extension of the exist email fraud and scam we be already use to . if we imagine that it be not email from a corporation but video call or clone voice message from love one , we might suddenly see the scale of the risk . I be aware that I have be refer to various report and story , but let I please give some context to what these scam can look like in real life . give the time available , I shall give just a couple of recent example report by the medium . perhaps one of the most extreme be report in the Independent . in the US , a mother from Arizona share her story with a local news show on WKYT . she state that she have pick up a call from an unknown number and hear what she believe to be her 15 - year - old daughter " sob " . the voice on the other end of the line say , " mom , I mess up " , before a male voice take over and make threatening demand . she share that " this man get on the phone , and he ' s like , ' listen here , I ' ve get your daughter ' . " the apparent kidnapper then threaten the mother and the daughter . in the background , the mother say she could hear her daughter say : " help I , mom , please help I , " and cry . the mother state : " it be 100 % her voice . it be never a question of who be this ? it be completely her voice , it be her inflection , it be the way she would have cry — I never doubt for one second it be she . that be the freaky part that really get I to my core . " the apparent kidnapper demand money for the release of the daughter . the mother only realise that her daughter be safe after a friend call her husband and confirm that that be the case . this have be a deepfake ai clone her daughter ' s voice to blackmail and threaten . another example be report in the Daily Mail . a canadian couple be target by an AI voice scam and lose 21 , 000 canadian dollar . this AI scam target parent who be trick by a convincing AI clone of their son ' s voice tell they that he be in jail for kill a diplomat in a car crash . the AI caller state that they need 21 , 000 canadian dollar for legal fee before go to court , and the frightened parent collect the cash from several bank and send the scammer the money via Bitcoin . in this instance , the report share that the parent file a police report once they realise that they have be scamme . they say : " the money ' s go . there ' s no insurance . there ' s no get it back . it ' s go . " these example , in my view , be the canary in the mine . I be sure that , over recent year , we have all receive at least one scam text message . they be usually pretty unconvincing , but that be because they be dumb message , in the sense that there be no context . but let we imagine that , like the example I have mention , the message be not a text but a phone call or even a video call and that we can see a love one ' s face or hear their voice . the conversation could be as real as it would be if we be speak to that love one in person . perhaps they will ask how we be . perhaps they will mention something we recently do together , an event we attend , a nickname we use or even a band that we be a fan of — something that we would think only a friend or family member would know . on the call , they might say that they be in trouble and ask we to send £ 10 or perhaps £ 100 as they have lose their bank card , or ask for some personal banking information because it be an emergency . I be sure that many people would not think twice about help a love one , only to find out that the person they speak to be not real but an AI scam , and that the information the person speak about with an AI - clone voice be freely available on the victim ' s Facebook page or elsewhere online . imagine that this scam happen not to one person but to hundred of thousand of people within the space of a few minute . these ai - assist criminal could make hundred of thousand of pound , perhaps million of pound , before anyone work out that they have be scamme . the AI technology to do this be already here and will soon be unleash , so we need to protect consumer now , before it arrive on everyone ' s phone , and before it impact our constituent and even our economy in way that we can not imagine . because of the precise topic of the debate , I will not stray too far into how this technology raise major concern for the upcoming election . we could easily debate for hour the risk of people receive a call from a love one on the day of the election convince they to vote a different way , or not to vote at all . everything that I have say today be bear out by the evidence and prediction . the Federal Trade Commission have already warn that AI be be use to " turbocharge " scam , so it be just a matter of time , and time be run out . how do we protect consumer from AI scam ? first , I be aware that the Government be on the front foot with AI . I be fortunate to attend the Prime Minister ' s speech on AI last year — a speech that I genuinely believe will be consider in decade to come to be one of the most important make by a Prime Minister because , amid all the global challenge we face , he be look to a long - term challenge that we do not know we be face . I appreciate that the Government have say that they expect to have robust mechanism in place to stop the spread of AI - power disinformation before the general election , but the risk of deepfake go far and wide , and the economic impact of AI scam be already predict by some medium outlet to run into the billion . the Daily Hodl report that the late number from the US Federal Trade Commission show that imposter scam account for $ 2 . 6 billion of loss in 2022 . the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology have say that the rise of generative AI , which can be use to create write , audio and video content , have " make it easy " for people to create " more sophisticated " misleading content and " amplify an exist risk " around online disinformation . with the knowledge that the Government be ahead of the game on AI , I ask that the Minister , who know this topic inside out , consider some simple measure . first , will he consider legislation , guideline or simple framework to create a " ture clause " ? everyone know that ture say technology would one day be able to fool human , and that time seem to be here . the principle of a ture clause would be that any application or use of AI where the intention be to pretend to be a human must be clearly label . I believe we can begin this by encourage all Government Departments , and all organisation that work with the Government , to have clear labelling . a simple example would be chatbot . it must be clearly identify where a person be speak to an AI , not to a real human being . secondly , I believe there be a great opportunity for the Government to support research and development within the industry to create accredited antivirus - style AI detection for use in phone , computer and other technology . this would be similar to the rise of antivirus software in the early day of the world wide web . the technology ' s premise would be to help to identify the risk that AI be be use in any communication with an individual . for example , the technology could be use to provide a contextual alert that a phone call , text message or other communication might be AI generate or manipulate , such as a call from a suppose family member receive from an unknown phone number . in the same way as anti - virus software warn of computer user of malware risk , that could become a commonplace system that allow the public to be alert to AI risk , and it could position the UK as a superpower in police AI around the world . we could create the technology that other country use to protect their citizen by , in effect , create AI police and alert system . thirdly , I would like to find out what , if any , engagement be take place with insurance company and bank to make sure they protect consumer affect by AI scam . I be conscious that the AI scam that be likely to convince victim will most likely get they to do thing willingly , so it be much hard for consumer to be protect because before they even realise they have be fool by what they believe be a love one but be in fact an AI voice clone or video deepfake , they will have already give over their money . I do not want insurance company and bank to use that against our consumer and the public , when they have be fool by something that be incredibly sophisticated . a further ask relate to the fact that prevention be well than cure . we therefore need to help the public to identify AI scam , for example , by suggest that they use a codeword when speak to love one on the phone or via video call , so that they know they be real . the public should be cautious about unknown caller ; we need to make they aware that that be the most likely way of get a phone call that be a deepfake or be by a cloned voice and that put they at risk . we should also encourage people not to act too quickly when ask to transfer money . as state by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , the most vulnerable will be the old people in society — those who be most worried about these thing . we need to make sure they be aware of what be possible and to make it clear that this be about not science fiction , but science fact . finally , I appreciate that this fall under a Department different from the Minister ' s , but I would like to understand what mechanism , both via policing and through the court , be be explore to both deter and track down AI - assist crime and criminal , so that we can not only find the individual who be push and create this technology — they will , no doubt , be those in serious and organised crime gang — but shut down their technology at source . to conclude , unlike some , I do not subscribe to the belief that " the end of the world be nigh , " or even that " the end of the world be AI . " I hope member excuse the pun . however , it would be wrong not to be wary of the risk that we know about and the fact that there be many , many unknown unknown in this space . our ability to be nimble in the face of grow risk be a must , and spot early warning sign , several of which I have outline today , be essential . we may not see this happen every day now , but there be a real risk that in the next year or two , and definitely within a decade , we will see it on a very regular basis , in way that even I have not be able to predict today . so we need to look beyond the potential economic and democratic opportunity , to the potential economic and democratic harm that AI could inflict on we all . scam such as those I have outline could ruin people ' s life — mentally , financially and in so many other way . if it be not worth do all we can now to avoid that , I do not know when the right time be . so , along with respond to my point , will the Minister recommend that colleague throughout the House become familiar with the risk of AI scam so that they can warn their constituent ? I ask Members also to consider join the fantastic all - party group on artificial intelligence , which help these thing — the scam , the opportunity and much more — to be discuss regularly . I thank the Minister for his time and look forward to hear his response . first , let I put on the record how pleased I be to see my hon . friend the Member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) back in his place , have hear about his health issue . I say that not just because his parent be constituent of mine or because he be bear and bring up in my constituency , but because he be a dear friend of mine . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate and raise the important issue of AI scam and the use of AI to defraud or manipulate people . I assure he that the Government take the issue very seriously . technology be a fast - move landscape and the pace of recent development in artificial intelligence exemplify the challenge with which we be present when it come to protect our society . I will start by be very clear : safely deploy , AI will bring great benefit and promise to revolutionise our economy , society and everyday life . that include benefit for fraud prevention , on which we be work closely with the Home Office and other Departments across Government . properly use , AI can and do form the heart of system that manage risk , detect suspect activity and prevent million of scam text from reach potential victim . however , as my hon . Friend rightly identify , AI also bring challenge . to reap the huge social and economic benefit of AI , we must manage the risk that it present . to do so , and thereby maintain public trust in these technology , be key to effectively develop , deploy and adopt AI . in the long term , AI provide the mean to enhance and upscale the ability of criminal to defraud . lone individual could be enable to operate like an organised crime gang , conduct sophisticated , personalised fraud operation at scale , and my hon . friend speak eloquently about some of the risk of AI . the Government have take a technology - neutral approach . the Online Safety Act 2023 will provide significant protection from online fraud , include where Al have be use to perpetrate a scam . more broadly , on the service it regulate , the Act will regulate AI - generate content in much the same way that it regulate content create by human . under the Online Safety Act , all regulated service will be require to take proactive action to tackle fraud facilitate through user - generate content . I be conscious that my hon . friend may have introduce a new phrase into the lexicon when he speak of AI - assist criminal . I be confident that the Online Safety Act will be key to tackle fraud when user share AI - generate content with other user . in addition , the Act will mandate an additional duty for the large and most popular platform to prevent fraudulent pay - for advertising appear on their service . this represent a major step forward in ensure that internet user be protect from scam . the Government be take broad action on fraud , beyond the Online Safety Act . in May 2023 , the Home Office publish a fraud strategy to address the threat of fraud . the strategy set out an ambitious and radical plan for how the Government , law enforcement , regulator , industry and charity will work together to tackle fraud . on the point raise by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , the Government be work with industry to remove the vulnerability that fraudster exploit , with intelligence agency to shut down fraudulent infrastructure , and with law enforcement to identify and bring the most harmful offender to justice . we be also work with all our partner to ensure that the public have the advice and support that they need . the fraud strategy set an ambitious target to cut fraud by 10 % from 2019 level , down to 3 . 3 million fraud incident by the end of this Parliament . crime survey datum show that we be currently at this target level , but we be not complacent and we continue to take action to drive down fraud . our £ 100 million investment in law enforcement and the launch of a new national fraud squad will help to catch more fraudster . we be work with industry to block fraud , include by stop fraudster exploit call and text to target victim . we have already block more than 870 million scam text from reach the public , and the strategy will enable we to go much far . social medium company should carefully consider the legality of different type of datum scrape and implement measure to protect against unlawful datum scraping . they also have datum protection obligation concern third - party scraping from their website , which we be strengthen in the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill . that Bill will hit rogue firm that hound people with nuisance call with tough fine . the maximum fine be currently £ 500 , 000 ; under the Bill , it will rise to 4 % of global turnover or £ 17 . 5 million , whichever be great , to well tackle rogue activity and punish those who pester people with unwanted call and message . I thank the Minister for a comprehensive and detailed response to the hon . member for Watford ; it be quite encouraging . my intervention focus on the elderly and vulnerable — what can be do for those who fall specifically into that category ? it be a great honour to be intervene on by the hon . Gentleman , who make an important point . the Government will be do more awareness raising , which will be key . I be willing to work with the hon . gentleman to ensure that we make progress , because it be a key target that we must achieve . consumer be far protect by the Privacy and Electronic Communications ( EC Directive ) Regulations 2003 , which govern the rule for direct marketing by electronic mean . under these regulation , organisation must not send marketing text , phone call or email to individual without their specific prior consent . we be also strengthen these regulation , which mean that anyone try to contact someone with unwanted marketing communication call can be fine if they could cause harm or disturbance to individual , even if they go unanswered by victim . beyond legislation , the Home Office and the Prime Minister ' s anti - fraud champion work with lead online service provider to create an online fraud charter . the charter , which be launch in November last year , set out voluntary commitment from some of the large tech firm in the world to reduce fraud on their platform and service and to raise good practice across the sector . this include commitment to improve the blocking of fraud at source , make report fraud easy for user and be more responsive in remove content and ad find to be fraudulent . the charter will also improve intelligence sharing and well educate user about the risk on platform and service , in response to the point of the hon . member for Strangford . public awareness be a key defence against all fraud , whether or not ai - enable . as set out in the fraud strategy , we have be work with lead counter - fraud expert and wide industry to develop an eye - catch public comms campaign , which we anticipate go live next month . this will streamline fraud communication and help people spot and take action to avoid fraud . none the less , it be important to remember that this work be take place in a wide context . the UK be lead the way in ensure that AI be develop in a responsible and safe way , allow UK citizen to reap the benefit of this new technology , but be protect from its harm . in March last year , we publish the AI regulation White Paper , which set out principle for the responsible development of AI in the UK . these principle , such as safety and accountability , be at the heart of our approach to ensure the responsible development and use of AI . the UK Government show international leadership in this space when we host the world ' s first major AI safety summit last year at Bletchley Park . this be a landmark event where we bring together a globally representative group of world leader , business , academia and civil society to unite for crucial talk to explore and build consensus on collective international action , which would promote safety at the frontier of AI . we recognise the concern around AI model generate large volume of content that be indistinguishable from human - generate picture , voice recording or video . enable user and institution to determine what medium be real be a key part of tackle a wide range of AI risk , include fraud . my hon . friend have bring forward the idea of label to make it clear when AI be use . the Government have a strong track record of support private sector innovation , include in this field . innovation from the safety tech sector will play a central role in provide the technology that online company need to protect their user from harm and to shape a safe internet . beyond that , government support measure provide a blueprint for support other solution to keep user safe , such as championing research into the art of the possible , include via the annual UK Safety Tech sectoral analysis report , and drive innovative solution via challenge fund in partnership with GCHQ and the Home Office . DSIT have already publish good practice relate to AI identifier , which can aid the identification of AI - generate content , in the " emerge process for frontier AI safety " document , which be publish ahead of the AI safety summit . in the light of that , DSIT continue to investigate the potential for detect and label AI - generate content . that include both assess technical evidence on the feasibility of such detection and the lever that we have as policymaker to ensure that it be deploy in a beneficial way . more broadly , last year the Government announce £ 100 million to set up an expert taskforce to help the UK to adopt the next generation of safe AI — the very first of its kind . the taskforce have now become the AI Safety Institute , which be convene a new global network and facilitate collaboration across international partner , industry and civil society . the AI Safety Institute be engage with lead AI company that be collaboratively share access to their AI model for vital safety research . we be make the UK the global centre of AI safety — a place where company at the frontier know that the guardrail be in place for they to seize all the benefit of AI while mitigate the risk . as a result , the UK remain at the forefront of develop cutting - edge technology to detect and mitigate online harm . UK firm already have a 25 % market share in global safety tech sector . AI create new risk , but as I have set out it also have the potential to super - charge our response to tackle fraud and to make our everyday life well . the Government be take action across a range of area to ensure that we manage the risk and capitalise on the benefit of these new technology . I thank all member who have speak in the debate , and I again thank my hon . friend the Member for Watford for introduce this debate on AI scam , which I assure he , and the House , be a Government priority . question put and agree to . House adjourn .