I hugely respect the hon . Gentleman . I know he be a bruiser , but I have be look forward to his question . I think he would celebrate the 13 , 000 apprentice in Chesterfield since May 2010 , the 11 , 270 apprentice at level 2 and 3 , or the £ 19 . 5 million investment in Chesterfield College . if I be he , I would be urge his party to stop its plan to destroy the apprenticeship levy , which would halve the number of apprenticeship start overall . it would be back to square one . as always , Labour Front Benchers be obsess with quantity over quality . we have transform the quality of apprenticeship . seventy per cent of occupation be cover by over 680 apprenticeship standard . there have be a 6 % increase since this time last year in the number of under - 19 start , and overall start be up by 3 % over the same period . the crucial thing be achievement , which be up by 22 % . female STEM start be up by 7 . 5 % , start by people with disability be up by 6 . 3 % , and start by people from ethnic minority be up to 15 . 4 % of start , compare with 10 . 6 % in 2010 . not only be we focus on quality over quantity ; we be improve the number of start and achievement too . I be pleased to visit Loughborough not so long ago with my hon . friend . she be passionate about fe and skill . I know Homefield College well ; it be a brilliant college and I be glad it be recently allocate £ 95 , 000 for capital spend . we have the £ 80 million support internship scheme for those with special educational need ; an FE bursary scheme for special need teacher ; specialist National Careers Service advice for young people ; and the SEND code of practice to prepare young people for adulthood . we be do everything possible to support fe for those with special educational need , to ensure that they get on the ladder of opportunity . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his question . Arthur Balfour be a great man and identify the need for a homeland for british Jews . that be why antisemite do not like he and be slash his picture . I and the Secretary of State be spend a lot of time with jewish student group . I have be to Leeds University to spend time with jewish student , because the chaplain there be attack , and we be work with Universities UK . we have announce a £ 7 million package to give to jewish student group , include the University jewish Chaplaincy , to try to stop antisemitism on campus . we be also develop a quality seal that we will ask university to adopt , so that they deal properly with antisemitic incident . last week , I and the Secretary of State have a meeting with the Office for Students , to make clear to the regulator that antisemitism across our university be not acceptable .