motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gagan Mohindra . ) have sit for many year next to Ann on this very spot on the Back Benches , and on the other side of the House as well , I want to echo my hon . friend ' s remark about Ann ' s incredible passion , pride and sense of justice , but I also want to mention her sense of mischief and the twinkle in her eye . she bring both passion and humour to this Chamber . she be sadly miss , and we be all greatly diminish by the lack of her presence in this House . certainly in Cardiff West , where in her latter year she be a very active constituent and correspondent with I as her local MP , I certainly miss her letter , even though they create a great deal of work for I here in this place . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . Ann understand the need to keep job in local community . tyrone o ' Sullivan , leader of the Tower Colliery buy - out , who sadly also pass away early this year , speak at an event for Ann that be organise in March last year by our local labour woman ' s branch in Cynon Valley . Tyrone acknowledge and celebrate Ann ' s contribution to the fight for Tower Colliery , and he remind I , only week before his death , of the importance of the working - class struggle for today . they show the way to build local economy , build local wealth for local people , not encourage local people to leave in order to get on in life . I share that vision and I try to carry on in the same vein with my work on the local economy in Cynon Valley . Ann fight battle on behalf of miner . when she become MP , our constituency be in the throe of fighting to keep the mining industry alive . next year , we will remember 40 year since the 1984 miner ' strike — the year when Ann become MP for Cynon Valley . I be , as a child , on the demonstration through the town of Aberdare with Ann . in her maiden speech in Parliament , Ann say that the miner ' strike be " a symbolic fight , a fight against the two Britains — the have and the have not . it be a protest on behalf of a lost generation of young man and woman who have never be able to find a job in the valley of South Wales . " that fight continue . public service worker , rail worker and health worker today be fight against two Britains — the have and the have not . Ann also fight tirelessly for compensation for miner suffer health problem as a result of their work . as she say in the same speech : " it be a heartbreaking experience — I wish that Conservative Members could share it — to see a miner gasp for breath even while use an oxygen mask . yet , because he have not be diagnose as suffer from pneumoconiosis , he do not get a penny in compensation . that be more than wrong , it be cruel and unjust . " — [ Official Report , 7 June 1984 ; Vol . 61 , c . 476 - 77 . ] I , like other member in the Chamber , be currently involve in the ongoing battle for miner ' pension right and compensation , so again the fight go on ; the thread of history continue . my hon . friend ' s intervention be very timely , because I be just come on to the point that Ann be renowned for her internationalism , from Cambodia to South Africa , to East Timor and Turkey , and of course , her commitment to support the kurdish people . she be for over 20 year chair of the all - party parliamentary group on human right , which continue to raise awareness of serious human right violation throughout the world . she be also a member of numerous parliamentary Committees , include those on International Development and Foreign Affairs , and she head the IPU Committee on the Human Rights of Parliamentarians throughout the world . as my hon . Friend say , Ann be sack not once but twice from the shadow Cabinet . it be a great pleasure to be able to speak about my friend Ann Clwyd , whom I know extremely well . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) for the wonderful way she have put her memory on the record today . I first know Ann when she be elect to Parliament along with I in the early ' 80 . we share an office in the Cloisters downstairs , along with about 25 other mp . it be an extremely noisy place , because Ann have a great deal to say . Lord Campbell - Savours often come along to have an argument with Ann about something , or to tell she what to do , and she tell he what to do and so it go on . Tony Benn be next door , and there be a number of other there , so it be not a quiet place . the office be also home to my dog call Mango , who come in as well . Ann be deeply concerned about Mango ' s health and often look after Mango for I . one day there be a leak in the roof . it be literally a leak — there be a lot of talk about Government leak , but this be a real leak with water come in from the roof . the rest of we just moaned and groan and phone up service and say , " please fix this leak " , but Ann ? no , no , no . I open the Evening Standard at lunchtime that day . there be a picture of Ann Clwyd with an umbrella over her head , raincoat , wellington boot — the whole bit — explain how Parliament have so deteriorate that she be force to come in with protective gear to get through the day . she have this wonderful panache for publicise event and issue , but that hide a deep steel in what she do . she represent Cynon Valley , where Tower colliery be . I be at the next desk to she . the miner ' strike come , and they want support , so she ask I to get a load of people from my constituency to go to Cynon Valley . we hire a coach and a van , we take food and we go in large number . Ann meet we there . we build up a great relationship with Tyrone o ' Sullivan , and it be an honour to be invite to speak at his funeral recently with my hon . friend the Member for Cynon Valley . Ann be somebody who stand up for what she believe in . she and I be two of a very small group of MPs who oppose arm sale to Iraq and speak up for the kurdish people during the chemical attack on Halabja . we do a lot of activity around the place and work closely together with all the kurdish group . Ann be rightly see as a great friend of the kurdish community . while she and I do not agree on the Iraq war , we be both on the record as oppose arm sale to Iraq . there be not many of we who be oppose to arm sale to Iraq before the war begin . I see Ann as a friend and colleague , and I work closely with she as vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on human right . during the Yeltsin period , we go on a delegation to Russia to try to defend the Chechen people , with the horror they be go through . Ann be extremely assertive on behalf of the human right group on that . I distinctly remember sit in front of somebody who be presumably very senior in something because he have an unbelievable number of phone set out all round his desk , and Ann and I be speculate about which phone lead to which person . it be her wit and humour that help to get thing through . I want to put on the record my thank to she for so much of what she do . as chair of the human right group , Ann also lead we in a delegation to East Timor in 2000 to witness its referendum . it be difficult , because the indonesian army be supposedly protect the integrity of the referendum , which be a strange to - do . Ann , I and the late Alice Mahon be on a delegation , and we visit all the polling station on behalf of the UN and meet many people there . for some reason that I never really understand , Ann bring an amazing amount of luggage , which fill up the very small plane we go in to get there . the rest of we all become porter for Ann Clwyd ' s luggage — there be a lot of it , and it be very heavy . when we ask she to explain this , she say , " I don ' t think it ' s any of your business how many case I choose to bring , but it ' s very much your business that you ' ve get to carry they . " so I say , " thank , Ann — that ' s great . " but we play our part in ensure that the people of East Timor , who have be through hell for decade , actually see their independence and some hope for the future . I want to say a huge thank you to Ann for the friendship , for the humour , and for the steel and determination on the human right cause and all the other cause that colleague have mention . she be always a good friend to I . we often do not totally agree on everything , but we totally agree to respect each other in our disagreement , so we always get along very well indeed . that be a good example of how politic can work . I say to all her family : my condolence , and thank you for the life of Ann . it be a real pleasure to follow the many tribute to Ann , and particularly those from my hon . friend the Member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) , who succeed she in her seat . it be also a real pleasure to have Ann ' s family with we in the Gallery . I want to give a few personal thought about Ann . I be lucky enough to know she for decade . I first meet she when I be 15 year old as an intern in the Welsh Labour party headquarters , and I remember be bowl over by she speak at an event with great power , great passion and that strong sense of radicalism exemplify in so many of the comment we have hear . as often happen in politic , we can meet people when we be young and think , " wow — what an incredible figure " , but do they turn out to be that way when year later we meet they in Parliament or have the privilege of work alongside they in Parliament , as I do with Ann ? when I be able to join Ann in this place , she live up to every aspect of what I have see in she when I be a young teenager . I be Ann ' s Whip for a while . she have obviously have a tumultuous relationship with whip , and indeed with party leadership over many year , but all I can say be that she be always utterly courteous and pleasant , even when there be difficult issue to be discuss . it be a real pleasure to work with she . we have hear about so many different campaign that Ann be involve in , include Tower , the NHS , Iraq and miner ' compensation , and she really do apply that campaigning zeal , expertise , tenacity , complete dedication and commitment to everything she turn her hand to . I have the particular pleasure of work with she on the Committees on Arms Export Controls . arm export be obviously a significant issue that she reflect on in many different capacity in her career . I remember work with she on the Committees — I will not go into too many detail , because we be not suppose to reveal certain proceeding — and deal with a lot of shenanigan , with thing make it out into the medium and so on . ann ' s expertise and length of time in this place , have see so much of it in the past , be a great instructor to I on how to handle such situation . even amid all that , she never lose track of her clear purpose , which be to stand up for civilian affect by conflict , for child , for human right , and for basic standard and decency , even in war and conflict . Ann speak passionately about that issue on the very last day that she speak in this place in the valedictory debate , which I will quote in a moment . she teach I an incredible amount about stick to principle , drive forward and fight through difficult political situation . Ann serve as an MEP before come into this place . I spend a lot of time with she here during the Brexit debate , which as we all know be tumultuous , tiring and try at time . Ann never lose sense of her principle and what she stand for . my hon . friend the Member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) talk about how Ann stick to her principle and be very tough , but she be truly an internationalist . she be never afraid to tell it as it be in this place when she think other be get it right rather than we . in that valedictory debate , she say : " there be other reason why I be pleased that I go there first " — refer to the European Parliament . " I have to say that it be a cultural shock for I to come here , because I have not realise how delusional people here be . I will tell you why . it be because we give the impression that we do everything well than everybody else , when in fact there be many example of other country do thing well than we do , and I be pleased to have have the opportunity of experience that . " — [ Official Report , 5 November 2019 ; Vol . 667 , c . 699 . ] Ann be deeply and passionately Welsh and British . she be proud of our country and what we do in the world when we be at our good , but she be also not afraid to tell it as it be and to question and criticise , whether on domestic or international issue or on so many of the other cause that she go for . how she speak in that last debate really sum she up . Ann be a tireless advocate for , and regularly speak to I about , human right in a whole series of country , from T ü rkiye to East Timor , as the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) mention . she fight for child in the terrible conflict in Syria in recent decade . she proudly speak up alongside other dear depart colleague such as Jo Cox and other in those crucial debate about the situation for child in Syria . despite all that international work , she never lose sight at all of the centrality of her constituency . I sit down with her couple of year ago after she have retire , and she talk with encyclopaedic knowledge about the Phurnacite plant and everything that go on with her campaign on that in the constituency . she tell I that at one point it be the most polluting plant in western Europe . she be resolute in her desire to fight for well air quality and standard for her constituent . she be not satisfied when the plant have close , but fight for the clean - up and the return of greenery and wildlife to that site . that sum she up . Ann help , stand up for and advocate for so many people , particularly individual detain abroad or who have their human right violate . that may have be speak up for Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe or other detain in a whole series of situation , though I would not want to breach any confidence . Ann be always on the phone to I about my own constituent who she work bravely and tenaciously to support . I be sure that Ann ' s advocacy and campaigning touch hundred and possibly thousand of people , and possibly change their life . they may not ever know that , but she do . I want to reflect on what a wonderful woman Ann be to spend time with privately . after she retire from this place I have the pleasure of spend a number of evening , lunch and chat with Ann at her home . she would invite I over , and we would talk and gossip about politic and what be go on in here . we would get into some serious conversation about different issue and campaign . she talk from her vast experience , but we also talk about her cat — she have story about every one of they . I be a cat lover and , as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) point out , Ann have a deep love of animal and have serious compassion for they . she tell story about their personality and how they act . she be incredibly proud of they . that show that human and compassionate side of her character . I remember stumble into Ann ' s house one evening . I do not know what have be go on but I have be run from one event to another . I have not eat and I be look a bit pasty . I walk in and Ann , who be not in the good of health at that stage , get up and say , " Stephen , I ' ll make you a chop , I ' ll put some vegetable on and make you dinner . " she cook dinner for I and make sure I be feed and water . that be a testament to the kind of person she be . Ann be a remarkable woman . she will be miss by many , not just for her incredible campaigning internationally , nationally and for her constituent , but for her friendship , companionship , mentorship and inspiration to many of we in this place from different decade , different political persuasion and different part of our own Labour movement . we have hear today some of the story that show why she mean so much to so many of we . I congratulate the hon . member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) on secure the debate . it be a privilege to celebrate the contribution of her predecessor , the right hon . Ann Clwyd , the former Member of Parliament for Cynon Valley , who sadly pass away in July , age 86 . Ann be not just a public servant ; she be also a great ambassador , whose dedication to her constituent and commitment to the value of justice and compassion have leave a significant positive impact on many people ' s life . she be bear in Flintshire on 21 March 1937 to parent Gwilym and Elizabeth . Ann be educate at Halkyn Primary School , Holywell Grammar School , the Queen ' s School , Chester , and University College Bangor before become a student teacher at Hope School in Flintshire . she move on to become a BBC studio manager , freelance reporter and producer , and then a journalist for the Guardian and the Observer . as we have hear , she be a major advocate for the Welsh language . she campaign to secure important funding to support it . in fact , I believe she could only speak Welsh until the age of five . she always make sure she take the parliamentary oath yn Cymraeg . in 1963 , Ann marry Owen Roberts , a television director and producer . ann ' s journey in politic span several decade , during which she consistently demonstrate her resilience , integrity and genuine concern for the wellbeing of her constituent . have join the Labour party in 1968 , she first stand for Parliament in 1970 in my part of the world , the old constituency of Denbigh . she then contest Gloucester in 1974 before be elect as a Member of the European Parliament for Mid and West Wales from 1979 - 84 . while put together these word , I realise that she would have serve alongside my relative Beata Brookes , the former MEP for North Wales . then , in a by - election in May 1984 , she become the Member of Parliament for the Cynon Valley , become , as we have hear , the first female MP to a hold a seat in the south Wales valley . that be a seat she hold until she stand down in 2019 . in total , she serve 35 year in this place and be therefore Wales ' s long - serve female MP to date . she be also , I believe , the old woman to have sit in the House of Commons . between 1987 and 1995 , Ann be Opposition Front Bench spokesperson for woman , education , overseas development and co - operation , Wales , national heritage , employment and foreign affair . during that period , she be , as we have hear , sack on two occasion for choose not to toe the party line , an indication that she be independently minded and not afraid to put her principle above all else . indeed , her autobiography be entitle , " Rebel with a cause " . one of the most commendable aspect of Ann Clwyd ' s political career be her relentless pursuit of social justice . she champion human right , advocate for those who often have no voice . her work as the shadow Secretary of State for International Development and her role as the chair of the all - party parliamentary human right group demonstrate her dedication to improve the life of people in both her constituency and around the world . in 1994 , she stage a 27 - day sit - in at Tower colliery , near Hirwaun , in protest at British Coal ' s decision to close the last deep pit in Wales . the miner , of course , pool their redundancy money to take it over and it go on to produce coal until 2008 . in 2003 , the then Government move to amend the exist law on female circumcision — the prohibition of Female Circumcision Act 1985 — after a private Member ' s Bill be introduce by Ann . the Female Genital Mutilation Act 2003 increase the maximum penalty from five to 14 year in jail . Ann consistently campaign for healthcare reform , and for well resourcing of the NHS . she work to improve patient care , fight for well working condition for NHS professional and increase transparency in the healthcare system . she be appoint by the then Prime Minister David Cameron to lead a review on complaint procedure in the NHS follow the death of her own husband , Owen Roberts . while lead that review , she raise some difficult but honest concern about healthcare in Wales . her role as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on dementia help to ensure that those affect by that devastating condition receive the support and care that they deserve . Ann Clwyd be not just a leader in her own right ; she be also a strong supporter of woman ' s right and gender equality . her work in that area pave the way for great gender representation in politic , and have inspire many young woman to pursue career in public service . her legacy in this regard be a testament to her desire for create a more inclusive and equitable society . she be make a Privy Counsellor in 2004 . throughout her career , Ann Clwyd ' s ability to connect with people from all walk of life , listen to their concern and take action on their behalf earn she the respect and admiration of her constituent and colleague alike — and we have certainly hear plenty of example of that this evening . I serve in the House alongside Ann between 2015 and 2017 , and enjoy my occasional conversation with she about the NHS and our share connection in north Wales . she be personable , passionate and forthright . I understand that a public service to remember Ann ' s life and work will be hold at 2 pm on 13 October at St Elvan ' s Church in Aberdare . I have no doubt that her legacy will continue to inspire many for generation to come .