I recently meet the manage director of Morebus again to call for new service to Hengistbury Head , reinstate service to throop and well service , such as an improve 33 route to the Royal Bournemouth hospital and the airport . do the Minister agree that well bus be good for our community and our economy , and that there be a lot of growth to unlock in Bournemouth and the south - west with well bus ? I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on secure the debate , and on all his effort and leadership in champion the Irish in Britain and advocate for co - operative relationship with Northern Ireland for many year . l á fh é ile P á draig sona daoibh — happy St Patrick ' s day . St Patrick ' s day be no long a day but a season . it start sometime in early March , around the time of my birthday , and carry on for a full month . I think today ' s debate mark the end of it . I have " green fatigue " at this stage of the month , where I do not want to see any more St Patrick ' s paraphernalia , and certainly no Guinness , for quite a while . however , it have once again be a fantastic season , celebrate the good of the irish community in Britain . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be the proud chair of the Labour Party Irish Society , and have be for the past five year . we represent the irish community in Britain and champion strong co - operative relationship between Ireland and Britain , and Northern Ireland as well . someone touch on the Good Friday agreement , and two year ago I be proud to open the Mo Mowlam film studio for cinematic art at Ulster University in Derry . she be one of many great figure from our party who contribute to that peace agreement , which be in the dna of the Labour party and I be very proud of that . many hon . member have have a lot to say about Guinness as the sponsor of choice for St Patrick ' s day refreshment , but Jameson be also available and tayto crisp be worth note . Tayto be more than a crisp : they be a way of educate people about Ireland and irish politic . a lot of people do not know that there be two type of Tayto , one from Northern Ireland and one from the Republic of Ireland — or , as I call they , the Nordie Tayto and the Free Stayto . that be always a good way of explain thing to people . as I say in my maiden speech , I be proud to be London - Irish . that be the community that I grow up in and the community I want to pay tribute to today . I be also proud to represent Beckenham and Penge , the only constituency in London with a Gaelic place name , as " penge " mean " edge of the wood " . we have a fantastic irish community . all four of my grandparent be from Ireland : two grannie from the south and two grandad from the north . one granny be particularly proud and I be wonder what she would have do if she have still be alive when I be elect . I know for a fact that she would have go to 9 am mass and then to 10 . 30 be mass , to make sure that everyone know that her grandson have be elect as an MP . a couple of year ago there be an exhibition at the London Irish Centre curate by the national charity , Irish in Britain , that for the first time that I can remember really tell the story of the London - irish community over several generation . the London Irish do as much as any community to build this great city . irish navvy dig the underground , and irish construction worker rebuilt our city after the war . I know that we have a fantastic construction industry in London , with so many irish people involve , and today we have the founder of and member from the London Irish Construction Network , include Sean Daly and Frank o ' Hare , here to watch the debate . as be touch on by my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme , wave of thousand of young irish woman come to staff our hospital at the birth of the NHS in this country . those woman , know as the Angels of Mercy , be often overlook but essential to the NHS . I spend a lot of time in NHS hospital as a teenager , especially the Royal London hospital and the Royal National orthopaedic hospital . my irish dad would often look after I , and we would often encounter an irish nurse . before I could get treat , they have to establish how they know each other . it would begin with , " what county be you from ? " , then , " what town be you from ? do you know so and so ? " once they have make that connection , we be free to get on with our day . the Irish in Britain have maintain that relationship with the NHS ever since , and I be really proud that there be more irish staff in the NHS today than staff from any other european country . even if we think back more recently to the global health emergency of covid , it be an irish woman , Professor Teresa Lambe , who co - develop the Oxford - AstraZeneca vaccine . it be then Margaret Keenan , an irish woman from Enniskillen live in Coventry and a former NHS nurse , who become the first person in the world to have the vaccine . the irish connection to the NHS be really deep and strong , and our community be incredibly proud of it . however , the exhibition also chart the history of how the irish community be receive here , which , as have be touch on , be not always easy . alongside the Windrush generation and the West indian community — it be important to remember that there have be a lot of solidarity between those community — it be often treat with suspicion and subject to discrimination , include through sign that read " no black , no dog , no Irish " . however , the London irish community and the irish community across Britain today be a community transform . it be confident in the contribution it make to every aspect of life in Britain — economic , political , social and cultural . the irish community help to make our country the great place it be to live . I extend that beyond London to the home county as well . my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) , who be here today but can not take part in the debate , have long be a champion of irish contribution to read football club and to the Reading Irish Centre , which I have be to and which do incredible work to support the irish community in Reading . as well as celebrate the contribution of the irish community in Britain , I will touch on a campaign I start in the last few week to secure justice for 13 , 000 survivor of Ireland ' s mother and baby home live in Britain . we often need to remember the reason why lot of people leave Ireland and decide to come to Britain . for some , it be for work or to be with friend and family , but in the case of thousand of woman who be send to those home for the perceive sin of become pregnant outside marriage , it be to escape those institution and the stigma that often come with have be in one . More than 13 , 000 survivor live in Britain today , both woman and the child who be bear into the institution . they be subject to some of the most horrific mistreatment and abuse in those home . woman be use as unpaid labour , and their child be often forcibly adopt . I have name my Bill " philomena ' s law " , after Philomena Lee , who I feel bring that story to a global audience in the film " philomena " , in which she be portray by Dame Judi Dench . we have an event on an evening two night ago in a pack room in Parliament to which survivor come and tell their story . it be incredibly powerful to hear from they about the impact that that have on they many year later . I hope the Government will listen to the proposal we be put forward . at the moment , if the survivor accept the compensation payment they have be award by the Irish Government , but be in receipt of means - test benefit , they will lose that compensation . I hear from survivor this week , and that have actually become an additional burden for many of these woman , who be now often in their 80 or 90 , and some of they be very vulnerable . I will go back to the Irish in Britain . we see the pride of the second - generation irish community , of which I be part , and the growth of irish culture and its importance right across Britain in the growth of the Gaelic Athletic Association . it be not just people of irish heritage who get involve , but people from all community and background who participate in GAA . there be also the irish language ; people be adopt irish name . my cousin Jordan and his partner Annie have a baby a couple of week ago — a little girl — and I congratulate they . they have name she Fi á in , which be irish for " wild " — I think she will take after her dad . it be common that people be very proud of their heritage often several generation back . we have see that in irish music and culture , where for year the irish community be subject to discrimination . we be now in a period where we can turn on the tv on a Friday night and watch Graham Norton on BBC one and " Derry Girls " on Channel 4 , which be a representation of how far the irish community have come . we see it in trade union and in the labour movement as well : there be a period a year or two ago when the general secretary of every single major trade union in this country be either first - generation or second - generation Irish . there be no more visible transformation in the confidence of the London irish community over time than in the growth of the Mayor of London ' s St Patrick ' s day parade . I be very proud to take part in that this month with our mayor , Sir Sadiq Khan . More than 50 , 000 people join and participate in that parade , and London be awash with green . to sum up , what make the irish community so special for I be that it be an inclusive and welcome community . at the entrance to the exhibition at the London Irish Centre two year ago , there be a plaque that read : " Ar sc á th a ch é ile a mhaireann na daoine " , which mean " in the shelter of each other , the people live " . it be an irish proverb that sum up what make our community in Britain so special and sum up neatly the irish contribution to make our country the great place it be to live . I again thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme for secure this debate , and I thank everyone who have take part in it .