thank you , Madam Chair , for allow I to give my maiden speech in this House . like every member across this House , it be the great honour , privilege and responsibility of my life to represent my community of Loughborough , Shepshed and the village . I rise at the most difficult moment for our community and our country since the second world war , when many feel despondency , despair and anger . I know that every member across this House want our community to succeed and to contribute to our national success . that be what my community have do before and will do again , with hope and determination . my story do not begin in Loughborough . I be not bear there — unlike my neighbour , who be now my friend , and who have make it my home . my story instead begin in rural Punjab , 4 , 000 mile away , where my father be bear almost 70 year ago . his chance of die before his fifth birthday be one in four . today , a child bear in the same place be around nine time less likely to die . that be what economic growth mean . it mean less suffering , it mean less misery and it mean less death . that be why I become an economist : to build prosperity and to lessen misery . I learn my trade in the Treasury and then go to work in Somaliland , one of the poor nation on Earth , where I help to write its economic policy , its budget and its national development plan . that be where I see the horror of climate change lead to drought , hunger and death , but also where I learn that even in the darkest of hour and the most difficult of moment we can build prosperity . now I stand here as the elect Member of Parliament for my community . it say something remarkable about our nation that the fact that I , the son of immigrant , be stand in this Chamber be in and of itself unremarkable . it speak to our common culture — a culture forge of different background , a culture that not only reject the violence we see over the summer , but completely reject its reasoning too . my election represent an historic first for my community . I be a member of an under - represent minority — I be , of course , the first Member of Parliament elect by the man and woman of Loughborough to have a beard . to the organiser of the beard of the year competition I say , " call I . " luckily for I , my dad be not eligible for that particular competition . I know that the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) have win the award several time ; I hope he do not mind I win the prize this time , as long as I let he win the argument . my predecessor in this place , Jane Hunt , be not a contender for that award , but no one can doubt her commitment to team Loughborough , and every single member across this House and across my community will wish she the very good , especially as she have recover from cancer . her predecessor , Baroness Morgan , have talent that be well know both in this and the other place . before she be my good friend and mentor Andy Reed . member who know Andy will know that he be still a lead figure in sport policy , and they will also know that Andy be the nice man in british politic . it be his character that I hope to live up to in this place . however , I rise to speak at the most difficult time for our community and our nation since 1945 . our community be in crisis . wage in my constituency be £ 10 , 000 low than they would be have we grow at new Labour rate . the divide cause by deindustrialisation have widen from crack into chasm , with young man who use to leave school and get good job now 20 % less likely to get any job ; in our most deprive neighbourhood , life expectancy fall before the pandemic ; more than any fact or figure , the despair , the despondency and the anger ; across and beyond our shore , war in Europe once more , with democracy in danger ; and , most seriously of all , a planet that be burn . for my community , this be the hot summer we have ever know , follow by the bad flooding we have ever see , destroy home . the Prime Minister and I see that destruction when we visit the home of Ian and Alan . no one should wake up in the morning to find their home destroy by flooding , but that will only become more common in the year ahead . what we do in the next decade will determine the fate of our community , of democracy and of our planet . either we will rise to this moment , build prosperity for all , protect democracy and stop emit carbon , or everything we hold dear will crumble and fall . previous generation have show we that we can rise to this moment that threaten we . our country stand alone against fascism in Europe and win . I think today of my constituent William Williams , 104 year old , who fly Spitfires in the war . as his generation rise to their moment , so can we . my community have show I that we can . when the water come and the flood rise , my constituent Caz and Carl do not pause to think if they could help , but only how they could help . they organise collection , they provide refuge , and they look after perfect stranger . it be their spirit that I carry into this place — ask not if , but how . how can we build prosperity and protect our planet from burn ? we can do so by invest in a green transition that create good job and get wage rise for the people and place leave behind when the factory close . that be what we can achieve , and we be see it work already in the United States . in my community there be world - lead hydrogen research and industry . we need green hydrogen for fertiliser and to keep our truck move . it be not a coincidence that I have choose to speak in this debate , with Treasury Ministers on the Front Bench ; I say to they , " get out the cheque book " — they be very excited by that — " because I will be ask for money from both the National Wealth Fund and GB Energy . " however , this be about more than cash . it be about rebuild hope and prosperity . as a previous generation rise to their moment , in the midst of the most destructive war in the history of humankind , an economist write a report that still define our nation . he write : " freedom from want can not be force on a democracy or give to a democracy . it must be win by they . " it be win by they . they build prosperity for all , with good job across our country , education for all , housing for all and healthcare for all . as that generation rise to their moment , so will we , by build prosperity , protect our planet and end despair and despondency . as previous generation rise to their moment , we will too , with the hope and determination that define our community and that define our country . thank you , Ms Ghani . I start by commend my hon . friend for their impassioned speech , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) . he will be pleased to know that I will not be a contender this year in the competition that he mention . maybe later , menopause depend . it be a huge honour to stand before you today as the newly elect Member of Parliament for Portsmouth North . this moment be not lose on I ; I be fill with immense emotion at the thought of represent the place where everyone I love life . Portsmouth be a city rich in history , innovation and , most importantly , community spirit and pride . it be also a place of first . throughout our city ' s storied history , we have be pioneer in many field , be it shipbuilde , maritime trade or cultural advancement . Portsmouth have always lead the way , and it be that spirit of innovation that I intend to champion while in this House . I be deeply humble to make my maiden speech in this debate highlight the importance of fiscal standard , because during the election campaign so many people tell I that their mortgage have go through the roof , or that they have lose the ability to buy or rent their first home , or indeed any home , because of the action of the last Government . I understand personally what it be like when a full - time job do not even cover the bill . my gramp be a train driver . he teach I the importance of hard work and public service . he introduce I to the trade union movement and to the Labour party , which I be proud to say have be at the centre of my adult life . my mum be a factory seamstress and my dad be a plumber and then a police officer . as a kid , time be tough , but our house be always full of love , humour and determination . my dad work three job and my mum set about make childhood the very good it could be . my gramp navigate the track with precision and care , my mum sew with love , and my dad serve his community . I know I will bring the same attitude to my time in this House , because the opportunity here be so very precious . like so many of my colleague on the Government Benches , I be the first in my family to go to university and the first to become a teacher , but thankfully not the last to enter what I still deem to be the very good profession in the world . the right education really do empower young people and give they belief and the opportunity to succeed , whatever their background and circumstance . I be so very proud to be part of a Government who will bring down the barrier to opportunity and tackle child poverty , work across department to ensure that all kid get the good start in life . have be a teacher for 24 year , I know that not everyone have the start in life that I feel privileged to have have . be allow to try thing and fail be a great lesson . my working - class background mean that I sometimes seem a bit impatient . this be because I know that people from my background must fight hard , and do not often get a second chance , so they have to seize every opportunity as it arise . as an MP , I want to champion child and young people from all background across my city , so that they be give every chance to succeed and fulfil their potential , whatever that may be and wherever that may take they . the child and young people in Portsmouth deserve nothing less . Portsmouth , as I have say , be a city of first . the first dry dock in the world be build there in 1495 . the first ragged school be establish there in the name of John Pounds in 1818 . we be the first to have a steam railway in 1837 , and the first co - operative society in Britain be set up there in 1796 by dockyard worker feed up with be rip off by local tradesman . the first oil - fire HMS Queen Elizabeth be build there in 1913 ; the second ship be very close to my heart . in 1956 , the first football league game play under floodlight take place there ; it be Portsmouth versus Newcastle . in 2024 , the Portsmouth woman ' s football club turn professional for the first time . another first be the nursery on Whale Island ' s naval base ; it be pioneer a brilliant programme to help child deal with separation and the unique challenge of have a parent in the military who be serve away . Portsmouth also produce the first female Secretary of State for Defence , and as I raise this first , I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor . Penny Mordaunt ' s service to our city , and particularly her role in the coronation of our king , be to be celebrate . in this House she have many role in Government . she have always champion the Royal Navy , and from what I hear , she love her time in the parliamentary hairdresser ' . however , the sword now pass to I , and I will continue her lead as I champion our Royal Navy and our great city , both here and at home . now for my final first for our great city . for the first time in our city ' s history , both Portsmouth mp be Labour mps . we build on the work of our predecessor : Lord Frank Judd ; Sarah McCarthy - Fry ; and my very dear friend , mentor and freeman of our city , Syd Rapson . together , my good friend the new Minister with responsibility for early education , my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , and I will work night and day to be champion of change for the city we call home , Portsmouth . I be so very proud of the positive campaign we run in Portsmouth North . we unashamedly focus on the need for opportunity and for real change . I want to put on record my thank to the many people who help I get here , include the Pompey Belles , my amazing family of 17 , friend and the dozen of volunteer from Portsmouth Labour and beyond . as I begin my journey in this House , I know that the need for change have never be so great . as this debate highlight , after 14 year of Tory rule , there be so many uncertainty for the people in my city . People be struggle ; the money just do not go far enough . school be underfunde and understaffed . appointment in primary care , the NHS and dentistry be , in some area , almost impossible to get . youth service outside the voluntary sector stretch only to offer support with probation . our high street be a mess , and housing be in complete chaos . however , not everything be about money and pay . this be about pride . pompey people be proud people . they do not shout about success , unless they be in football . they rarely grumble — equally , unless it be about football . many of they just get their head down , roll up their sleeve and get on with it , and many feel betray and let down by those who should have be there for they . for some , trust in politician have disappear , and I can understand why . People on the doorstep and in the street be wary and feed up with broken promise . many feel alone , isolated and betray . come from one of the most trust profession in the country to one of the least , I get it . I know that , as the MP for Portsmouth North , the chance for opportunity and real change lie with I — real change , that people can see , feel and be part of ; positive change that they can proudly shout about . as Alan Ball say , " this be Portsmouth , people go to war from this city " . it be a city that deserve the very good , and I aim to give my very good in represent and serve it . what of the city of Portsmouth ? we officially turn 100 year old in 2026 , and a raft of famous figure have help shape our city , include Charles Dickens , Isambard Kingdom Brunel and James Callaghan , a labour Prime Minister in whose honour I hope next year to secure a blue plaque . as rich in culture as our city be , it be also full of unsung people who should be right up there with the famous people I list . these include — this be in no way an exhaustive list — Shamila from Portsmouth City of Sanctuary , Roni at Pamodzi , Isabelle from Loaves of Love , Laura at STEMunity and Mandy , an award - win community volunteer . they be just a few of the people in my city make it great . I feel extremely privileged to have seven magnificent ward in my constituency , and to have live , work or have family and friend in every single one of they . they be all special and unique in their own right , from Paulsgrove , Drayton and Farlington to Cosham , Hilsea and Nelson , and Copnor and Baffins . they be also all very much Pompey , and when you walk down the street it would not be uncommon to hear , " oi , mush , don ' t be a squinny " , or " Oi , you loon " , or " din " . as a whole , Portsmouth North be make up of those magnificent seven ward , with 70 , 000 constituent , 35 school , our brilliant Queen Alexandra hospital , 11 gp practice , hundred of charity , small , family - run , large , regional and national business , a municipal and thriving international ferry port , seven allotment , 27 pub , one mobile and four static library , a shoreline , the good view in the world to watch the sun rise or set at Portsdown hill with a crack burger van , a pond , a marshland , a forest — albeit a mini one — and the training ground for the football club who be simply the good . as a season ticket holder and a trust board member , it be sad to say that Fratton Park reside in the south of my city , but I get the brilliantly name John Jenkins training ground . I stand here today not only as the Member of Parliament for Portsmouth North , but as a proud representative of a city that have always be full of first , and will have so many more to come . I will acknowledge that together as we work we may face time of choppy water and , as they say in the Navy , " fair wind and follow sea " . and as they say at Fratton Park , " play up Pompey " . thank you , Ms Ghani , and congratulation on your position . I also congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) on her inspire speech . I feel like I know her constituency a little well now , and I commend all those who have deliver their maiden speech today and in recent week . you have all be fantastic . it be truly an honour for I to make my maiden speech in a debate on budget responsibility , and I be proud to be elect in this new Labour Government — a Government commit to fiscal responsibility , credibility and accountability . we will ensure that taxpayer ' money be manage and spend wisely , not recklessly as the previous Administration do . I have the absolute pleasure of represent Swindon North , the town where I be bear , raise and be proud to call my home . I be also proud of the fact that I be the first Member of Parliament in Swindon North ' s history to have be bear in the town . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Mr Justin Tomlinson , who serve as the Member of Parliament for North Swindon for 14 year . Justin be a ferocious campaigner and he also support many local community group and be incredibly passionate about football , namely our local club , Supermarine FC . while we do not align politically , Justin have my respect , so I thank he for his service . I would also like to mention another former Member of Parliament for Swindon : one of my mentor , the labour peer Lord Michael Wills . I have learn so much from Michael . even though he be go through an incredibly tough time with his health , he have always be there to support and guide I with his expert knowledge . Michael be not only a top - notch politician , but a publish author of crime novel . I only recently find that out , but I guess it be not too much of a surprise , consider he be once a Minister of State for Justice . I be truly privileged to follow in his footstep . if I be half the parliamentarian he be , I will have do Swindon proud . I hope the House will join in wish he a speedy recovery , and I hope to repay his trust in the Chamber . I be the first brazilian jiu - jitsu black - belt to be elect to Parliament , and I use to run my own academy . Ms Ghani , I promise this be somewhat relevant . when I leave the Army , I have offer to teach brazilian jiu - jitsu across the world , from Abu Dhabi to Arizona , but I pick Swindon . I be often ask , " why do you choose Swindon ? " , but it be an easy answer for I : I love Swindon . I love my hometown . it be a wonderful town build on industry and be full of passion and hope . our history be a proud history of reinvention . we start life as a farming town with a focus on pig market , then we transition and become a hub for the railway in the 19th century . generation of railway worker and their family benefit from the cradle - to - grave healthcare that be rumour to have inspire the great NHS . as technology develop , so do Swindon , and we become home to the like of Rover , Honda and Mini , but what be next ? we be at a pivotal point in history for my town . where do Swindon go next ? my hope be that it will go as it always have : into the future , at the forefront of new technology and green technology . I hope that my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) hear that . it be my mission to foster green growth in Swindon and see the town thrive again with high - skilled , well - pay job . I believe that in a grow , stable economy , we can see that happen . Swindon be not just famous for its high number of roundabout — if anyone in the Chamber have ever visit , I be sure they will remember those fondly — as we have also have the pleasure of not one , but two James Bond movie be film in the town . it be impossible to talk about Swindon without mention its people . the people make Swindon what it be : a kind , welcome , industrious place full of passion , innovation and a desire to support other , include strong local charity such as BEST , a charity at the forefront of tackle antisocial behaviour through mentoring and sport , the Kelly Foundation , which support people suffer with mental health issue , and change suit , which be break down barrier in diverse community to ensure that people get the help they need . I want to say how proud I be of the resident in Swindon . we have see tough time across the country , with riot spark by division invade many community , but they do not come to Swindon because in Swindon we know that diverse community can stand strong together against extremism . we will not let division and hatred divide we ; we will unite together and stand strong . Swindon , for all its quality , be not without its fair share of challenge — challenge that I will face head on . our people be among the least likely in the country to go on to high education . we have grow level of knife crime and antisocial behaviour , raw sewage be pump into our stream and resident of large housing estate be affect by unjust management company and fleecehold . however , I be confident that with our renew Labour party and our ambitious agenda set out in the King ' s Speech — whether that be recruit and retain teacher , increase police presence on our street , provide mental health professional in school or reform leasehold and fleecehold — all back and fully cost in a fiscally responsible Budget , the people of Swindon North will experience the positive change they deserve . to finish , I be proud to be here represent such a fantastic group of people . it truly be the opportunity of a lifetime , so once again , I say thank you so much to the people of Swindon North who have put their faith in I . I will not let you down . first , I congratulate member who have also make their maiden speech in the Chamber this afternoon . in particular , I congratulate the hon . member for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) . I wonder whether his skill as a brazilian jiu - jitsu black - belt lead he to apply to be an extra in those movie that he mention . I will be watch out for he in the fight scene . it be the honour and privilege of my life to be stand in this Chamber give my maiden speech as the Member of Parliament for Chelmsford . it be a wonderful , young city locate in the heart of Essex that I have have the joy to call my home for the past 20 year or so . the constituency cover the main urban area of the city of Chelmsford . it be bless with beautiful park and flank river that wind their way through the city centre , pass the home of the Essex Eagles at the Essex county cricket ground . we have a thriving high street that attract shopper from mile around . investment into the constituency from the public and private sector mean that its future continue to look bright . from Waterhouse Farm in the west , to Chelmer village in the east , and from Springfield in the northern reach to the southern boundary of Goat Hall and everywhere in between , I be proud to call Chelmsford my home and even prouder to be stand here today represent its constituent in this magnificent place . Chelmsford have one of the busy two - platform train station outside of London . have now rejoin the rank of the commuter , I know at first hand the importance of the brand - new station be construct just outside of the northern edge of the constituency . the new Beaulieu Park station will have a significant positive impact on passenger from Chelmsford , give they more choice and flexibility and remove the need for many of they to travel into the city centre to commence their rail journey . a new station must not be see as job do , however . train travel in this country be expensive and complicated . ultimately , I do not believe that the public care too much about who run the train ; they care more about how much rail travel cost they , whether the train run on time and whether they be comfortable and efficient . they be often frustrate by the bewildering array of ticket option , whose detailed restriction seem design either to make they miss their train as they try to work out which one to buy , or to make they buy the wrong ticket . they be not design for the faint of heart or the novice traveller . that seem like madness if we want to encourage more people to make use of public transport . the whole system need to be simplify , and I be keen to see the legislation pass yesterday do just that . without an economy that can support investment in new rail station or the redevelopment of junction , include the major Army and Navy interchange in the centre of Chelmsford , we know that such project be in danger of never happen at all . I be pleased to support the Bill before we today to ensure that the terrible , wasteful fiscal mistake of previous government be not repeat , leave more headroom for investment in our country ' s future . the new Beaulieu Park station be important to my predecessor , Vicky Ford , and I pay tribute to her dedication to that project . it be the culmination of more than a decade of partnership work in Chelmsford that Vicky join after her first election to Parliament in 2017 . knock on door throughout this year ' s campaign , many constituent be grateful for her help with issue they have raise with she . they also note her visible loyalty to her party , as she be rarely see without her trademark blue nail polish to match her little blue car and an outfit that almost invariably include a splash of blue . I thank she for the time she spend serve the Chelmsford constituency . from the very bottom of my heart , I thank the constituent of Chelmsford who have place their trust in I to represent they in this place . I know they do not do so lightly . indeed , it have take 74 year of careful consideration for the good people of Chelmsford to send to this place anyone other than a Conservative . indeed , it have be 100 year since they make the choice to elect a Liberal to represent they . that slow pace of electoral change in Chelmsford may lead those not familiar with Essex ' s first city to conclude that Chelmsfordians have little appetite for innovation , but nothing could be far from the truth . among other thing , Chelmsford have a rich and distinguished history in the world of science and technology . most notably , it host the first ever entertainment radio broadcast in the United Kingdom in 1920 from the Marconi New Street work right in the centre , feature Dame Nellie Melba . that lead to regular entertainment broadcast from Great Baddow in the south of the constituency and eventually to what we now know as the BBC . it be hard to spend much time knock on door in Chelmsford and speak to Chelmsford resident without come across someone who use to work for Marconi . its modern - day successor Teledyne e2v , locate little more than a stone ' s throw away from the site of the original Marconi factory , have more than take up the mantle of innovation in Chelmsford . many of my constituent be now employ there . think of any space mission of the past few decade and the chance be that its imaging equipment contain component design and build by Teledyne in Chelmsford . from NASA ' s New Horizons mission to Pluto and the Kuiper belt , launch in 2006 , to the plan 2028 launch of Ariel by the European Space Agency to observe the atmosphere of thousand of planet beyond our own solar system , Teledyne and its employee be reach for the star . that be what I want everyone to have the opportunity to do : to reach for the star , to feel that sense of opportunity and to know that even the sky be not the limit . but they can do that only if we invest , and the very good place for that investment be in our child and young people . we be lucky in Chelmsford to have excellent school . I thank the teacher and other school staff who work so hard every day to give the child we entrust into their care the good possible start in life , but they be increasingly do so with their hand tie behind their back , with dwindle resource , crumble building and ever great workload . I be the first in my family to go to university and the first elect to any public office — let alone as a Member of this House . I have be able to achieve that because I have have a love and supportive family , lot of incredible campaign volunteer — and , of course , a sizeable dose of luck . but I also know that a critical part of my success be owe to the amazing state school education that I receive , the dedicated and inspirational teacher I be lucky enough to be teach by throughout my school life , and the extracurricular activity — in my case , largely music base — that broaden my horizon and lift my eye to the star . I worry that that be not the overwhelming experience of those go through our education system today . I worry that child be go through the day with little or no food in their belly , I worry that school be have to cut club because they no long have the time or the resource to hold they , and I worry that the perform art , such as music and drama , have be see for too long by previous government as expendable and an unimportant luxury without recognition that they provide child with the skill and confidence to stand up on large stage — dare I say , in parliamentary Chambers — and be hear . if you be a child with special educational need or disability , well , good luck with that , because the system be utterly , tragically , devastatingly break . but I also take hope from the wind of change that blow just a couple of month ago . we know that there will be difficult choice ahead , but my hope be that we recognise that invest early on and give child the good possible start can pay much great dividend in the future . when Guglielmo Marconi bring his fledgling invention and experiment to the United Kingdom in 1896 , he do so because he believe that this be a country that can see potential and will invest in that potential for the long term . it pay off , and a whole industry grow from the humble beginning of a short radio broadcast in the heart of my constituency . whatever choice be make by the Government in the loom Budget , it be my sincere hope that they recognise the importance of give school and teacher the resource they need to allow all child to reach for the star . I would like to commend the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) for a great speech . I know Chelmsford well — it be a beautiful town — and I commend her passion for support young people in school and their journey , which be very important and something that we need to protect . thank you , Ms Ghani , for allow I today to make my first contribution to the House . I think it be right to start off by thank my predecessor as MP , Sir James Duddridge , for 19 year of dedicated service . he become MP in 2005 when Southend East and Rochford be newly redrawn . the rural area to the north of Southend have be bring back within the constituency for the first time in many year . throughout many boundary iteration , from Southend East and Rochford to Rochford and Southend East and back again — you can see the creativity in rename the constituency — the area have always be Tory - hold , up until now . I be particularly proud to speak here today as the seat ' s first ever labour representative . the constituency consist of not just the city of Southend but the village of Great Wakering , Canewdon , Barling , Paglesham , Stambridge and Shoeburyness , the suburb of Southchurch and Thorpe Bay , and Rochford itself . it be a beautiful constituency , rich in culture , where you should bring your walking boot as well as your swimming costume . it be the place where Dame Helen Mirren go to primary school and home to the Cliffs Pavilion , which host oasis in 1995 — that might be tricky next time round depend on who can get ticket . as a Southender , I be contractually oblige to mention that Southend be the site of the long pier in the world , at 2 , 158 metre , with the option to walk or take a purpose - build train . I make the mistake some year ago of walk it with my son — he be a little bit old now , and he be up in the Gallery . my calf be struggle by the end of it . from watch the maiden speech of Labour colleague past and present , I have be strike by the nature of the local industry that be so often name - check . tin , pottery , steel , textile and coal be among the staple product in historical labour seat . those be noble and important good — they be labour good — but they be not the stock - in - trade of my own seat . Southend ' s primary industry and expertise have always be tourism : good time , escapism and happy memory . those be our export . Southend be a city that allow people to meet a sea turtle , admire a vintage car , win a large teddy bear and even have their palm read , often during the course of a single day . it be a place where past generation have go in search of freedom and pleasure , and it be hard in today ' s world to think of a call more important than that . indeed , the musician Billy Bragg immortalise one of the road that take people to southend in his 1985 song " A13 Trunk Road to the Sea " . the chorus name - check Shoeburyness , and Bragg later say that he hope his song would imbue the A13 — I know this be a bit of a reach — with the same romance as route 66 in America , " the Road to your Dreams , " which run from Chicago to Los Angeles . that be a lofty lyrical ambition indeed , and it be always go to be a hard ask , but speak as someone who grow up in the east end of London in that era , I can confirm that the idea of Southend always carry a certain magic . that be one reason why I feel so privileged to represent the area today . another reason be the constituency ' s military heritage . at the eastern part of my seat we find Shoebury garrison , an area steep in military history , and in the north be Southend airport , which now serve holidaymaker but in a past life be Rochford airfield , a fighter base that help to fend off fascism during the second world war . as a former soldier , I be station in the Southend area for a short while . one of my great pleasure when canvass be run into old Army friend still live in the seat — if they be prepared to open the door to I . for I , as someone who leave school with no qualification , get into a lot of trouble as a young boy and need a second chance , night school and the military provide a lifeline . I quite simply would not be here today in the mother of all Parliaments without the opportunity that give I and the ethos of service that it instill in I . to properly understand Southend , we need to understand its proud military history . the city be build on a unique blend . the discipline and the dignity of the armed force be combine with the creativity and the freedom of the art — a place for both the soldier and the singer , if you like . but there be a risk of get too misty - eyed . coastal area such as mine have be on the economic sharp end for 30 or 40 year . the root cause of that , most notably , be budget air travel , and that be not go away . recent year have bring fresh challenge . Southend ' s economy be at the sharp end during the covid pandemic . the city be still in its recovery phase . many of the jewel in Southend ' s crown — the Kursaal venue on the seafront or the Freight House in Rochford — remain unused or underused . I be determined that these building will come back to life again , as part of our future . I believe that change be afoot . there be a Southend renaissance at work . the people of Southend be ready to seize the initiative and want more . southender be strong , independent and unbelievably hard - work . this weekend we hold City Jam , an awe - inspire international street art festival , now in its third year . but we can not do this alone . that be one of the reason why I be so pleased not just to be Southend ' s first ever Labour MP , but to be one of many first - time Labour mps in seaside seat that we have never win before . seat such as Southend East and Rochford need a real and impactful regional policy . too little thought have be put into how we build on exist asset and specialism , to create a sense of place and an economic centre of gravity . Southend East and Rochford ' s future will be find in modern technology , modern infrastructure and green energy , by identify opportunity in well - pay , modern job sector . we need a year - round economy , not just a seasonal one , so that young people can move from seasonal work into well - pay position . simply put , Southend East and Rochford will need to regain its cultural capital . this be something I have some experience in , have be one of the creative pioneer of east London ' s creative industry . my wife Debbie and my child be here in the Gallery today , and they have always be there for I — certainly during my career pivot from the creative industry into politic . I thank they for their unwavering support and complete belief in I . I believe it be my duty to help shape and create the future job and business for this generation and future generation to grow into , just like Adebayo Alaba and Atinuke Awesu , my late parent , who sacrifice everything as part of the Windrush generation to leave their family and community behind in Nigeria in order to raise a family here , in one of the most welcoming country in the world . simply put , it be now my job to ensure that community such as Southend East and Rochford be vibrant , dynamic , stable and welcoming . when we talk about the public finance , as we be in Committee today , we should all bear that in mind . our economy will be strong if we can fulfil the potential in every corner of the country , include on the esplanade of Southend and in the town centre of Rochford and Southend — place that have so much to contribute to our economy and our culture , yet too often have be sideline . I look forward to represent my constituent in this House . I look forward to contribute to future debate about our economic future , and I look forward to contribute to many other discussion . thank you , Ms Nokes , for give I this opportunity to make my maiden speech . before I do , I pay tribute to the hon . member for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) , who speak of his and his constituency ' s proud military past . I be sure that he will see his constituency through these tough challenge and on to a bright future . it go without say that it be a great privilege and an honour of a lifetime to be here , have be elect by the people of Woking . I thank they for elect I as their Member of Parliament . however , I must begin by address the Bill and severe crisis face my local authority , Woking borough council . despite be relatively small , the Conservatives leave woke with more than £ 2 billion of debt follow risky investment decision . this legacy be one of negative equity , service cut and unsustainable debt repayment . it could be argue that the Conservatives in Woking invent Truss economic before the former right hon . member for South West Norfolk have her small stint as Prime Minister . what have happen in my constituency show why the Bill be so important . I fear that , without support from the new Government , the situation in Woking , like the rest of local government , will only worsen . my constituent will suffer the most , and that be unacceptable when it be not their fault . I urge the Government to step in and provide the assistance we so desperately need to ensure that my community can recover and thrive . Most people might think of Woking as a modern constituency , but it have a rich history that stretch back through the century . Woking be mention in the Domesday Book . Sutton Place , famous for be the former home of Paul Getty , date from 1525 , and be one of the old unfortified house in the country . woke palace — now sadly a ruin — be a royal residence for both Henry VII and Henry VIII . as a result , woke football club , my local team , be affectionately know as the Cards , after Cardinal Wolsey . several act of Parliament have have an especially profound impact on Woking . for example , the Basingstoke canal be authorise by Parliament in 1778 . the canal run through much of woke constituency . it have shape our area , and be a popular cycling and walking route and a haven for nature . but like so many place in the country , woke as we know it today be shape by the railway . with steam , stone and iron , Woking be cast into the proud town it be today . in the mid - 1800s we lay the foundation to become the great commuter town we be . woke be also a wonderfully diverse and welcome place , home to the Shah Jahan mosque , the old in the country . a vibrant muslim community have develop in the town as a result . more recently , we have welcome ukrainian refugee , and I attend many event to support our new ukrainian resident with my predecessor , our former MP Jonathan Lord . that be a powerful example of cross - party co - operation , and I thank Jonathan for his service as woke ' s MP , especially on this humanitarian issue where there be no disagreement whatsoever . although we be opponent at the last election , I wish he and his family well for the future . woke ' s MP before Jonathan be Humfrey Malins , who found the Immigration Advisory Service in 1992 , which to this day provide free asylum and immigration advice to those who need it . he get a CBE for his work . woking have a proud history of elect mp who welcome immigration , and I be pleased to follow that tradition . our town be also know for its connection to McLaren ; it host its Formula 1 team and luxury car be build there . I be privileged to make a visit only yesterday . as a young child of around 11 , I remember watch with excitement as McLaren tour the town with its Formula 1 car , drive by Mika H ä kkinen , to celebrate their success . McLaren be win again , much like the Liberal Democrats . the town also take great pride in be home to the World Wide Fund for Nature . we have press issue , such as sewage in our river and the fight against climate change . I be already work alongside the five other newly elect liberal Democrat mps in Surrey to hold Thames Water to account for sewage dumping in our local river and stream . one of my first act as an MP be to bring all the surrey mps together to meet Thames Water to petition it for improvement and a well service . woking be fortunate to be surround by green space . I love walk my dachshund Toffee on Horsell Common , where HG Wells famously land his alien in " War of the Worlds " . so it be not a great surprise when Ed Davey ' s Liberal Democrats turn up and start campaign with their out - of - this - world stunt . of course , I ' m only " woke " — I wouldn ' t dare call my liberal Democrat colleague alien . get back to the matter at hand , my constituency have a much - love local hospital , Woking community hospital . despite feel like I be bear and breed in Woking , I be not actually bear in the constituency . actually , no one have be bear in a hospital in Woking for generation . I be bear in Frimley Park hospital , one of the nearby hospital we depend on , as Woking lack maternity service . however , Frimley Park be plague with RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — and its future be far from certain . I will work with my hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) to press the Government for a solution to rebuild Frimley Park hospital . another major issue be the cost of rent and mortgage . as someone under 40 — just — I understand these issue deeply . they have be raise consistently by local people on the doorstep . the increase cost of mortgage and rent in the past two year be a further reason why the Bill be so important . my journey into politic begin because of Surrey county council ' s failure to protect vulnerable child . at the time , it be rate the bad county council in the country because of that failure . we can not allow vulnerable child to be fail again . the wide theme of why I be elect , and indeed why so many of my hard - work Liberal Democrat colleague have be elect , be that we understand our community ' local issue . I have work for 15 year in local government and serve as deputy leader of Woking Council . I have see first - hand the crippling issue that some council face . when I look at the face of the Liberal Democrat mps here , I see people who have work hard in local government for year . what a glorious theme for this new Parliament : a cohort of 72 who understand the local issue our community face , and a force for good in the country and in the Chamber when we need it most . thank you , Ms Nokes . it be such a great privilege to speak in this debate and make my maiden speech after the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) and for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) . my hon . friend the Member for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) make a fantastic speech about the city in his constituency , which I have have the great privilege of swim in . his speech do due justice to that great place . my hon . friend the Member for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) make a faintly terrifying speech about his brazilian jujitsu skill , and he certainly do justice to Swindon , too . it be a great honour to speak in the Chamber as the Member of Parliament for Rother Valley . for so many on the Labour Benches in particular , make our maiden speech be the conclusion of long and hard - fought campaign in which we be ultimately victorious . in the early hour of 5 July , which just happen to be my birthday , we celebrate the end of 14 year of Conservative Government and the first Labour Government of my adult life , but we also humbly accept the responsibility that we have be give . in the context of an often bitter and heated political campaign , and from the thousand of value conversation I have in my constituency , one can not avoid the fact that we as a country face daunt and urgent challenge . we can not overlook the deep apathy towards the ability of politic , and indeed this place , to effect change . there have be the rise of online disinformation blame bogeyman who do not exist . conspiracy theorist and keyboard warrior purposefully ignore the complexity of the world around we for attention . political culture too often thrive on division and controversy , not the common good . the hyperactive vitriolic politic see so often across the Atlantic be seep into our discourse here , undermine constructive dialogue . there be an epidemic of alienation among our young people , with level of self - harm and suicide in my constituency increase all the time . child be arrive at school still in nappy and too often without breakfast in their belly . waiting list for mental health support now stretch to half a decade , with many young people reach their majority by the time they be see . too many people in my constituency feel they have to leave their village or town to get on in life . there be a disillusionment that their home , their community , their place be no long offer the security and hope that people deserve . there be a fear for the future . I be tell so often during the election campaign , " what ' s the point of politic ? this country be break . " perhaps some of those factor come to the fore over the summer recess , when a group organise to attend a hotel just a few mile from my constituency in Wath , plan to set that building on fire know full well there be innocent people inside . the picture on our television be difficult to comprehend . I speak to a young mother who have be make homeless and be be temporarily accommodate there with her child . the terror she describe will haunt I forever . but from the gloom of that violent act come hope . the day after the hotel be attack , I reach out to the muslim community in my constituency and be invite to a meeting after evening prayer . I arrive eager to show solidarity , but anxious about the fear and damage that the community would have suffer — and yes , there be plenty of concern . but the first question I encounter be not one of anger or retribution , but instead a comment urge I to speak with the perpetrator of the violence in order to well understand the cause and motivation . it be a moment of great generosity and sensitivity , and one that will always stay with I . indeed , that spirit of togetherness , care about the bond that unite we , be everywhere to be see in the Rother Valley . Dinnington boxing club hold an event after the riot , with several south Yorkshire boxing club , to show unity and togetherness ; a determination to portray south Yorkshire in a different light . that spirit run through the club . I will always recall have a pint at the Little Mester in North Anston when a young lad from the club arrive to rapturous applause , only to explain that he have casually run a marathon that morning , on his own , wholly unorganised , to raise money for a local child ' s hospice . he have hear that it require more fund for toy . I think of the dementia caf é in Winthrop Gardens , which provide such an invaluable service , or the Maltby Lions , who be out every week , rain or shine , to raise money for deserve cause . I think of the community caf é at the beautiful Ulley reservoir , the work of the Salvation Army at the Dinnington food bank , the Community Fridge in Kiveton Park , the volunteer gardener in Harthill , the community energy project in Woodsetts , or the MacMillan coffee morning in Anston . this spirit ultimately win the day , even in the shadow of horror . in a previous life , as a pupil barrister , I sit behind prosecute counsel at the trial of the murderer of Jo Cox MP . I learn an awful lot — not about legal process or criminal procedure , but from Jo ' s family , who arrive each day at court with smile , hold hand and with a bag of sweet that they offer to assemble journalist , security guard and indeed the lawyer , include the defence barrister . I take inspiration from their strength . it be an honour to campaign for my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) in that vital by - election , and it be even more so to share these green Benches with she today . that spirit of generosity , the strength of unity in the face of the dark force , be what I will try to further in my role in this place . in that spirit , I praise Alexander Stafford , my predecessor , who be a hard - work MP , and who leave the House as his brother arrive — no doubt the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) will follow in his brother ' s footstep . in this place , Alexander will perhaps be well remember for his work promote the independence of Somaliland , and I know from my own social medium that many in Hargeisa be very grateful for his adoption of their cause . I thank he for his service . let I end by say that I will work every day in this place to do my utmost to tackle the force of division and darkness during my time here , and to do my bit to bring people together , because after all , as Jo Cox tell we , we have more in common than that which divide we . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) for her excellent maiden speech . indeed , we have hear more than half a dozen excellent maiden speech today , several of which touch on the climate crisis and the future of child in our country , theme that relate to my amendment . I be touch to hear the passion with which all the new Members speak about their experience and commitment . my amendment 5 require the OBR to report on the impact of fiscally significant measure announce by the Government on the UK ' s statutory net zero target . the justification for my amendment be that we simply can not separate the economy and the climate — they be interlink . to deliver the green economic transformation that we so urgently need , as reference by hon . member speak early , every single policy must be align with the UK ' s net zero target and every government spending decision should be as well . it make sense to increase the OBR ' s remit on net zero to specifically consider the impact of climate risk on economic stability , and how far policy introduce at fiscal event will reduce or increase these risk . fiscal event , namely Budgets and spending review , lock in what be happen in our economy for year to come , even generation , so it beggar belief that they be not properly take account of climate impact . whether those policy be spend on new road , subsidy and tax break for oil and gas , investment in renewable infrastructure or giveaway like a freeze on fuel duty , they all have direct impact on the UK ' s prospect of meet our net zero target . those impact should be make clear and consider explicitly in the policy - make paper . we need to be think about the impact of today ' s economic policy on the prospect for future generation . the cost of fail to take an approach that consider climate impact be eye watering . a 2022 report by the Grantham Institute find that climate change damage to the UK be project to triple by 2050 and more than double again 50 year later , so climate prudence and fiscal prudence be one and the same thing . give that the OBR ' s main duty be to assess the health of the UK economy and the sustainability of its public finance , it need to be charge with assess whether fiscal event be reduce or increase climate risk to the economy . bring net zero into the OBR ' s mandate be consistent with the Government ' s five mission . indeed , in announce its clean energy superpower document , Labour say that it will add net zero mandate to all relevant regulator that need it . I would argue that the OBR be a relevant regulator that need a net zero mandate . that be why I be propose this probe amendment today . as other member have mention , it would also represent increase transparency around how fiscal policy choice be impact the UK ' s progress towards our net zero target and help ensure that future government also consider that . it be also an important step stone towards a net zero test , which would assess the aggregate climate and nature impact of every fiscal event . again , this be something that Labour commit to in opposition . in his wind - up remark , will the Minister comment on whether he be able to ensure that this test be integrate into the legislation that he be propose ? I hope that Labour will use this opportunity to commit publicly to introduce a net zero test in Government , and will take a step towards do that by back my amendment . thank you , Madam Chair . before I talk about Plymouth , may I celebrate the amazing speech that we have hear this afternoon , and pay tribute to the wealth of experience and passion , not just on the Government Benches but across the Chamber ? it be really heartening . my hon . friend the Member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) speak about the spirit that we have all see in the community that we represent , and the confidence that he have in that spirit to overcome some of the challenge that we be face as a nation and in our community . I completely share that . let I now talk about Plymouth , the city that I call home and the city that I be so proud to represent in this place as the Member for Plymouth Moor View . I want to talk about our people , our institution , our roll hill , grey warship glint in the south coast sun and the noise that 18 , 000 Argyle fan make on match day . I want to talk about the gritty determination of staff at one of the big hospital in the country , and I want to talk about hope . I will frame this speech with two principle that I live by during my time in the Royal Marines , principle that be well know amongst the armed force community in Plymouth . first , a leader must be a dealer of hope . when the chip be down , leader have to step forward and give hope . I believe that be our job in Parliament too . in Plymouth , community come together to give each other hope . there be immense strength and resilience in the street , the housing estate , the front room and wherever folk get together and organise to change the life they and their neighbour be live , make simple , tangible change by address the need in front of they . we have Whitleigh Big Local , the four Greens Community Trust and Connecting Youth CIC , to name just a few , work in partnership with the local community to improve the thing that matter and to bring hope . I want to use my position in this House to empower our community to effect change and generate hope that life will get well and that family can be lift out of poverty . today , relative child poverty in Plymouth Moor View be at 23 % , set against the regional figure of 17 % . I will not accept rise child poverty , because the second principle that I live by , one I believe a lot of we share , be this : " the standard you walk past be the standard you accept . " if we see something that we know be wrong and we keep walk , we be effectively say we be happy with that situation . the hard option be not to walk past , but to take action . Derriford hospital in Plymouth serve almost 2 million people across Devon and Cornwall . I have meet the nurse , paramedic , doctor and volunteer , who do fantastic work under immense pressure . they be people who do not just walk past . however , the hospital be up against it : in June alone , there be 5 , 000 instance where a patient wait more than four hour in A & E . that represent a series of personal tragedy for the patient affect . with the new Government , I will work tirelessly to change that story . away from the hospital , the beat heart of our city be Plymouth Argyle football club , which be in its second season now in the championship , make it one of the top club in the English football league . yet in Plymouth , many family struggle to afford access to sport for their kid . I be a keen footballer and I believe in the power of sport to set young people up for life . I will use my platform to improve access to sport in Plymouth , because a standard where this country have the fine football league , watch the world over , but our own youngster can not afford to play be not a standard I will walk past . I pay tribute to the excellent work that the Argyle community trust and the Plymouth football boot bank do already to broaden access to sport in Plymouth . as a former Royal Marines commando , it be a particular privilege to represent the city that be home to not only the large naval base in western Europe , but the Royal Marines , who be still headquarter in Plymouth . Ours be a city where so many resident have serve in uniform , and I take this opportunity to thank every single one of they for their service and dedication . I also pay tribute to my predecessor for his heartfelt effort to raise the profile of the veteran agenda . for century , Plymouth have have a proud military history , and the Prime Minister recently call it " the frontline of defence in this country " . Navy , Marines and Army personnel have deploy from Plymouth for hundred of year . the tradition of proud military service run through our city like the writing in a stick of rock . now , as we find ourselves as a country in another moment of critical international instability , Plymouth be again a keystone of our national security . devonport dockyard be the home port for the frigate , survey vessel and amphibious shipping that be crucial for our safety . it be also where the submarine that host our nuclear deterrent be maintain , and will be for generation to come . we be also home to highly skilled small and medium - sized enterprise such as MSubs — maker of unmanned submersible craft use in the most special military project — Barden bearing and Collins Aerospace , whose cutting - edge engineering be integral to the UK ' s modern weapon system . from our military institution and our manufacture base to our hospital , our football club and our dockyard , we stand up and we serve in Plymouth . we give a lot to this nation , but for all this — if I can borrow a phrase from a friend and a constant source of advice , my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) — Plymouth do not get its fair share . I will work tirelessly with the Government to change that , because in Labour we respect service , and our will be a Government of service — a Government of hope . as I serve my country before in uniform , so I will serve my city now in office . as I be train to do in the Marines , I will strive to be a dealer of hope . when it come to take action , I will remember , along with colleague on both side of the House , that the standard we walk past be the standard we accept .