it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Mr Deputy Speaker . as you can not speak from the Chair , may I say what a doughty champion you be for the reopening of Manston airport , in your constituency ? first , I thank my hon . friend the Members for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) and for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) for secure the debate and for the work they have do on the Transport Committee . I be grateful for all member ' important , interested and varied contribution , and will try to address as many as humanly possible — there be an awful lot of question in many of they . I know that member be anxious for news on specific scheme in their local area , but I will not be able to announce any new decision today . we will make announcement in due course through the usual process . let I address the comment make by the Transport Committee Chair about how spending be link to the Department ' s strategic objective . our spending be wholly orientate towards deliver this government ' s mission and our plan for change . at the heart of our approach be harness transport to drive growth , as well transport will connect people and opportunity and ensure that business can grow and thrive . that be why we be invest in vital public transport service , repair our road network , transform our railway and provide unprecedented investment for local leader to invest in their priority . five out of the first 10 Bills in this Session be on transport — we do not have five transport Bills in 14 year under the last government . we be move at pace . in the financial year 2025 - 26 alone , we be deliver £ 1 . 6 billion for local road maintenance , £ 1 . 3 billion for local transport in our big city region and over £ 1 billion for bus service . we be also provide more than £ 420 million for our small city , town and rural area , as have be mention today . our investment will help to drive growth in every part of the country and raise living standard for everyone . we be support the transition to net zero and an economy power by clean energy , with more than £ 200 million to accelerate the roll - out of electric vehicle charge point this year . we be invest in active travel infrastructure to improve the health of the nation , with an additional £ 150 million of investment in cycling and walk infrastructure in this financial year alone . we be support bus service and cap fare to connect people to job and to boost opportunity . we be also support safe street by make public transport safe — include , most importantly , for woman and girl . across our work , we be make sure that every penny of taxpayer ' money be put to good use , from great efficiency within the Department to get to grip with the spiral cost of HS2 and bring that project back on track . although this debate concern the estimate for 2025 - 26 , I note that only two week ago , the Chancellor set out how our ambition for the transport sector will last the whole of this Parliament . with the settlement we have receive for 2026 onwards , we will deliver increase local transport investment in England ' s town and city , prioritise funding in the north and the midland and give local area more control over how the money be spend . we will improve everyday journey across this country and invest in the critical national infrastructure need to connect our city and our town in the long term , enable economic growth . this will ensure that transport play its part in deliver the plan for change and a decade of national renewal . I thank the Chair of the Transport Committee for her speech . she ask I a number of question about when we will publish the outcome delivery plan . this will be do by all Departments , co - ordinate through the Cabinet Office , later this year . she ask about subsidiarity , and what happen if mayor do not use the money and new power we have give they on the thing that we want to do , cite active travel as an example . even with subsidiarity , mayor have to deliver against Government outcome and objective , and we hope to work with they in a spirit of co - operation to ensure that that be do right . my hon . Friend ask what our bus reform and £ 1 billion investment be mean to achieve . we introduce the new £ 3 fare cap on single bus fare in England outside London , which have have the cap for a long time , ensure that million of people have access to affordable fare and well opportunity to both go to college and work and to see friend and family . with UK SHORE , we have move fast with the decarbonisation plan , and the research and development funding for this will continue . we have work internationally with the International Maritime Organisation to reduce greenhouse gas emission across our planet . we have also announce £ 185 million through safe road fund to invest in the 99 most risky a road , and we have make clear commitment on rail cost base and subsidy . the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , the former Rail Minister , be a doughty champion for Aldridge station — well do to she for that . the money be reallocate by the current mayor to cover the cost of scheme implement by the former mayor that do not have the funding . she also talk about bus ; I have already mention the £ 1 billion that we have invest in well bus . my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) , who can not be in his seat at the moment , be an astonishing champion for Bradford . may I pay tribute to he and to Councillor Susan Hinchcliffe , the leader of Bradford city council , for their work in this area ? the £ 2 . 1 billion train line and bus station investment be transformative . some £ 35 million of Government money will see an additional five daily service to London , and we will be make announcement in the next few week regard Northern Powerhouse Rail and how important it be to connect the city of Leeds , Bradford , Manchester and Liverpool .