Speaker ' s Statement before we begin today ' s proceeding , I would like to draw the House ' s attention to the new shield commemorate our late colleague Sir David Amess , which be unveil early today at a small gathering of his family . Sir David be a dedicated constituency MP and a powerful advocate for Southend - on - Sea , which be grant city status last year in his honour . he be a committed campaigner for the cause he believe in — most notably , animal welfare — and a highly respected and value colleague , know to member in all part of the House for his kindness , his generosity and , of course , his friendship to all . he be sorely miss . hear , hear . New Members the following member make and subscribe the Affirmation require by law : Sarah Siena Edwards , Tamworth . Alistair Luke Strathern , Mid Bedfordshire . business before Questions City of London ( Markets ) Bill Ordered , that the promoter of the City of London ( Markets ) Bill , which be originally introduce in this House in this Session on 30 January 2023 , should have leave to suspend any further proceeding on the Bill from the day on which the current Session end in order to proceed with it , if they think fit , in the next Session of Parliament , accord to the provision of private Business Standing Order 188a ( suspension of bill ) . — ( the Chairman of Ways and Means . ) Bishop ' s Stortford Cemetery Bill [ Lords ] order , that the promoter of the Bishop ' s Stortford Cemetery Bill [ Lords ] , which be originally introduce in the House of Lords in this session on 23 January 2023 , should have leave to suspend any further proceeding on the Bill from the day on which the current session end in order to proceed with it , if they think fit , in the next Session of Parliament accord to the provision of private Business Standing Order 188a ( suspension of bill ) . — ( the Chairman of Ways and Means . ) thank you , Chairman of Ways and Means ; that be very effective . may I say , I would expect nothing less ? oral Answers to Questions Education the Secretary of State be ask — School Funding what progress her Department have make on ensure equality of school funding through the national funding formula . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of core school funding for the 2023 - 24 academic year . the Government introduce fairness into school funding . under Labour , we get disproportionately inflate school budget in place such as London , while constituency such as mine be underfunde for over a decade . it be the Conservatives who introduce the national funding formula , which fund school fairly , objectively and , most importantly , base on the need of pupil , not political ideology . not only that : this year , school budget be up by over £ 3 . 9 billion , and next year school will be fund at their high level in history , at £ 59 . 6 billion . my right hon . friend will be aware that Worcestershire County Council languish among the weak 10 local authority for funding per pupil . as a result , a lot of pressure have be put on other budget , include the high need and special educational need and disability budget . Worcestershire now face a deficit of more than £ 20 million in those budget . can she do something to help county such as Worcestershire to meet those important demand for our young people ? I be conscious of the pressure that many local authority have face on their high need budget . nationally , high need funding be set to increase by 60 % between 2019 - 20 and 2024 - 25 . next year , Worcestershire will receive more than £ 89 million for its high need budget . the Department be also support individual local authority to tackle financial sustainability through two programme : the Safety Valve programme for those with the high deficit , and deliver Better Value in SEND , which will help local authority , include Worcestershire , to develop plan to reform their system to reach a sustainable footing . the recent accounting error by the Secretary of State ' s Department will mean a cut of more than £ 2 . 5 million for school in Bristol . that money could have be spend on breakfast club , SEND provision , mental health support , or even such basic as pay the energy bill . the Prime Minister say in this conference speech that his main funding priority in every spending review from now on will be education , but he be cut school budget now . do the Secretary of State not realise the impact that will have on school , whose budget have already be cut to the bone ? I take the error in the July notional national funding formula figure very seriously , but it be important to note that school do not receive notification of their actual budget until February - March . the Department act quickly to correct the error — well before school set their final budget . there be no cut : £ 59 . 6 billion , which I have talk about many time from this Dispatch Box , be the number that school will be fund at next year . at my direction , Peter Wyman , the chair of the Institute of Chartered Accountants , will lead a rigorous independent external review of the Department ' s quality assurance process . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I be grateful to the permanent secretary for write to the Committee as soon as that recent funding error be identify , and for her apology for the concern that it cause . although no actual money be lose to school as a result , it reflect the complexity of the current system . we have promise a fair formula for funding , which will flow directly to school . when do minister expect to be able to legislate to put that in place ? it be our intention to legislate , but I can not give a date for that at the Dispatch Box . I will keep my hon . Friend inform . despite North West Leicestershire deliver consistently the high economic growth in the country , with the result tax revenue benefit to the Treasury , my constituent have be blight by very low per - pupil funding for a long time , as Leicestershire have bump along the bottom of the funding table for decade . do the Secretary of State have any word of comfort for my constituent ? the introduction of the NFF will direct resource accord to need . that have mean that funding have be redistribute to catch up with these change . those with the high number of pupil with additional need will also be target via the NFF . student : cost of live what step she be take to help support student with the cost of living . what step she be take to help support student with the cost of living . this year and last year , the Government have provide £ 94 billion of cost of live support in England . in education , more than a third of child get free school meal . university tuition fee have be freeze and we have provide £ 276 million of student premium to help the most disadvantaged student . [ Official Report , 25 October 2023 , Vol . 738 , c . 5mc . ] during my late meeting with student leader in Canterbury , they tell I that , often , new student will visit the food bank , the Campus Pantry , before they have even unpack their bag or settle in . in the 2021 - 22 academic year , 45 student visit ; by 2022 - 23 , that number have rise to 301 — a 650 % rise in regular food bank user . they expect a similar rise this academic year . what will the Government do to help all those , include student and staff on campus , who be force to turn to food bank ? I know the hon . Lady care deeply about the welfare of her student . we be do everything we can to help student with the cost of living . I mention the £ 276 million . one of her university , Canterbury Christ Church University , provide a £ 600 bursary to student . every family have receive from the Government on average £ 3 , 300 for energy bill and other support . we be try to be fair to the taxpayer , but fair to student and ensure the most disadvantaged be help . while the cost of food , heating and rent have rocket , the value of the student maintenance loan have fall by £ 1 , 500 in real term since 2020 - 21 . recent research by the University of Nottingham Students ' Union reveal that the cost of living crisis be affect student ' education , and their physical and mental health . it find that almost one in 10 student have a weekly budget of £ 20 or less after rent , and one in five have a weekly budget of £ 20 or less after rent and bill . thirty - seven per cent have consider leave university because of the difficulty they face pay for essential . do the Minister think that these be acceptable condition for student to be struggle under ? it be precisely because of the figure the hon . Lady set out that we be help student , with £ 276 million to try to ensure we help the most disadvantaged student . her own university — she mention Nottingham University — give a £ 1 , 000 bursary to disadvantaged student . we be also give up to £ 90 billion of extra help to disadvantaged family , we have freeze tuition fee and we look at loan repayment if family income fall below 15 % , so we be do everything possible to support the most disadvantaged to get high education . [ Official Report , 25 October 2023 , Vol . 738 , c . 6mc . ] I call the shadow Minister . as we have hear , this be a very serious issue . recent research from the National Union of Students show that almost one in five full - time student work more than 20 hour per week alongside their study — they be work even more than in previous year — and 40 % of student say that work be have a negative impact on their study . student be clearly struggle with the Conservatives ' cost of living crisis . how do the Minister expect student to balance their study and employment to pay their bill ? do he acknowledge that this be now force many student out of high education ? actually , the opposite be true . we have a record number of student go to university . disadvantaged student be 71 % more likely to go to university now than they be in 2010 . we have a huge package of support . I have mention the £ 276 million for disadvantaged student . we be do everything we can to help disadvantaged student . the hon . Gentleman criticise the money we be give , but do not come up with a figure of his own . warm word butter no parsnip . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Minister mention some thing that be maybe try to help these student , but recent Higher Education Policy Institute analysis show that student who previously receive free school meal be less likely to complete their degree and those who do be less likely to get a first or a 2 : 1 . support can not stop once they get to university . will he detail what support he be give those student at every stage of their journey to make sure they really do have the same opportunity as those from more privileged background ? many university offer bursary to student — I highlight two example to previous questioner — and we be do everything possible to ensure that student who do course get good skill and good job at the end . that be the purpose of our high education reform , which , as I understand it , the SNP oppose . math Standards : Primary Education what step she be take to increase the number of primary school child meeting expect standard in math . since 2010 , we have reform the math curriculum , reflect international good practice , and introduce a network of math hub to boost the quality of teaching . in 2019 , primary pupil achieve their high ever score in the late TIMSS — trend in international mathematic and science study — international survey , and Ofsted recently find " a resounding , positive shift " in primary math education . when will the Government learn that early year matter ? one in four child leave primary school without core math skill and never catch up . do the Minister agree that , instead of force everyone to study math to 18 , we should focus on early year and encourage a more positive attitude to learn math , rather than leave it hang over pupil ? in fact , we be focus on both . we have reform the early year foundation stage to ensure that there be more interaction between adult and pupil in that stage , with a focus on numeracy and English as well . in 2011 , we take the Singapore primary curriculum as the basis of our primary math , and we introduce the multiplication table check for year 4 pupil . an increase number of pupil be now fluent in their time table , in a way that generation of child in the past have not be . the hon . member for Ealing , Southall ( Mr Sharma ) and the Minister be both right to stress the importance of math , but what be vital to all good teaching be proper school place plan . on the Isle of Wight , councillor be prove unwilling to deliver , or incapable of deliver , a school place plan despite their legal duty . will the Minister work with I to ensure that the Isle of Wight Council act to fulfil its legal duty soon — order . the hon . member must try to keep to the main question . he really be drift . he must return to the subject of primary education . will you allow I to raise this subject during topical question instead , Mr Speaker ? no . okay . I be sorry , Sir . thank you . will the Minister work with I to ensure that the Isle of Wight Council act to fulfil its legal obligation ? at present it be let down parent , pupil and teacher . my hon . friend be right to raise this issue . we be aware that the Isle of Wight be experience a decline in the number of primary school child , which be create surplus place . the Department be monitor the situation closely , and the south east regional director will be meet the local authority next month to discuss this and other concern that we have about the Isle of Wight . Pupil absence what step she be take to reduce the number of pupil persistently absent from school . improve attendance be one of my top priority . our attendance hub now support 800 school , benefit more than 400 , 000 pupil ; 86 % of school subscribe to our attendance datum tool to spot at - risk pupil ; and we have specialist programme help some of the most vulnerable , include child with social worker , child with special educational need , and young people face particular issue such as mental ill health . our approach be start to turn the tide — recent datum show that 380 , 000 few child be persistently not at school last year — but absence level be still too high , and that remain my no . 1 priority . as the Secretary of State have say , progress in reduce persistent absence be not as fast as anyone would like , and in place such as Blackpool the attendance monitor pilot will be crucial . however , accord to the charity School - Home Support , which have be work in Blackpool for 18 month , there be a need to focus on more than just individual pupil , and the " whole family support " model be also crucial . will the Secretary of State meet I , along with representative of School - Home Support , to hear about the pertinent lesson that they have learn in Blackpool , which contain the most deprived neighbourhood in the country ? if we can not get it right in Blackpool , where else be we go to get it right ? I entirely agree with my hon . friend : school - Home Support do incredible work in Blackpool . the Government ' s support family programme , back by £ 200 million , focus on attendance by support the whole family . Blackpool be also one of our 24 priority education investment area , with six family support worker help 11 school to improve attendance . I be sure that my right hon . friend the Minister for Schools would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss these issue far . it be not uncommon for kid who have have a brain injury , particularly a significant brain injury , to receive plenty of care and support at school immediately after the event , but , some six to nine month later , to suffer real cognitive problem . they may suffer from depression or anxiety , they may sometimes be unable to inhibit themselves , and they may stop turn up for school and start get into trouble . can the Secretary of State commission a specific piece of work on provide protection and support for those child and their family , who desperately need it ? as the hon . Gentleman know , he and I both work on this topic when I have a different role . of course we want all child to be help to get into school , because they can only benefit from this fantastic education if they be there , and of course school should make adjustment if child need they . I be sure that my right hon . friend the Minister for Schools will be happy to meet he as well in order to understand far what more we can do in this regard . SEND Provision what step her Department be take to improve provision for child with special educational need and disability . what step her Department be take to improve provision for child with special educational need and disability . what step she be take to improve support for child with special educational need in Walsall South constituency . what step her Department be take to improve provision for child with special educational need and disability . in March , we publish our improvement plan to transform support for child with special educational need , and last month we launch nine regional change programme partnership to drive reform . by 2024 - 25 , we will have increase high need funding by 60 % since 2019 - 20 , and we have approve the opening of 78 special free school . local authority have spend nearly a quarter of a billion pound fight parent at SEND tribunal since 2014 , yet they have a failure rate of over 90 % . what step be the Department take to overhaul that process , which have cause SEND parent in Northampton South unnecessary distress ? my hon . friend be right to say that tribunal be costly and stressful , but it be important to say that most education , health and care need assessment and plan be conclude without a tribunal hearing . we will be introduce new national standard , strengthen mediation and great system - wide accountability to give family the support they need early and reduce the number of tribunal . I be one of 31 mp from across the Chamber who sign the f40 letter to my right hon . friend the Chancellor urge significant investment in SEN . will my hon . friend , behind the scene at least , endorse that campaign and also look at how we can reduce the reliance on education , health and care plan , which be a barrier to so many young people get the education they need ? it be probably worth say that I be an f40 MP myself , and I meet the group just last week to hear its concern . on my hon . friend ' s point about ehcp , through the reform plan we be work to get parent the support they need for their child at an early stage so that they do not always need an ehcp to get that support . there be a crisis in funding for SEND in Walsall South . in Old Church Primary , 78 pupil have special need , which be 19 % of the school total . how can the Minister target the funding to the school that really need it ? do he agree that when ofsted inspect , it should take into account child with special need in school such as Old Church so that these be mitigate factor ? the right hon . Lady make an important point about the role of Ofsted and ensure that it assess that provision . it be worth say that there will have be a 36 % per - head increase in Walsall between 2021 - 22 and 2024 - 25 , but I would be happy to meet she to discuss the issue far . thank to Government support , local conservative in the London Borough of Bexley have secure an incredible £ 39 . 5 million to expand and improve SEND provision in our borough . do my hon . friend agree that it be vital that local authority , charity , school and family work closely together to maximise the educational impact of this government - back funding ? my hon . friend make an important point , and I pay tribute to his campaigning on this issue and to the work of Bexley council . it be absolutely the case that people should be engage not just with school and family but with local charity , which be often well place to understand the need of family and their child . family in Selby and Ainsty have be wait nearly half a decade for spade in the ground at a new SEND school for the Selby area . will the Minister meet I to ensure that there be no further delay to this vital project ? the hon . Gentleman and I have exchange letter about this matter . we remain absolutely committed to the school and I would be happy to meet he to discuss it far . the SEND crisis extend to Devon , and my postbag be full of correspondence from parent try to get their child the educational provision they need . it have get so bad that in some case child be be teach in school cupboard , and Devon have appoint a SEND champion to its cabinet . what step be the Department take to help boost SEND service in rural area such as mine ? there have be a 30 % increase in the per - head funding to school in Devon for their special educational need provision , and the whole thrust of our reform plan be to make the system work well for parent and family and get the support for their child at the stage when they need it . [ Official Report , 25 October 2023 , Vol . 738 , c . 6mc . ] we now come to the shadow Minister . " lose , lose , lose " , cost a " fortune " and not provide " the right service " . those be not my word but those of the Secretary of State describe the SEND system over which her government have be preside for the last 13 year . will the Minister tell the House when he expect the plan that the Government have announce for SEND to make a difference to the long waiting time and lack of support experience by so many family across the country ? we have already begin the reform programme and have just launch the nine change partnership , which be already start to make a difference to the provision . I would just say to the hon . Lady that this be yet another area where the Labour party have absolutely no policy whatsoever . [ Official Report , 25 October 2023 , Vol . 738 , c . 7mc . ] high Technical Qualifications : uptake what step her Department be take to promote the uptake of high technical qualification . we be revolutionise our skill offer by introduce 172 high technical qualification at more than 140 provider at level 4 and 5 . this include £ 115 million for provider and £ 300 million for 21 institute of technology . I note that the Opposition want to rebadge institute of technology as technical college of excellence . in our view , all our college be place of technical excellence . I welcome the Government ' s plan to introduce a new advanced british standard to help to remove the artificial divide between technical and academic qualification . give that the need for technical skill exist right across the United Kingdom , can my right hon . friend confirm that this new qualification will live up to its name and be truly british , like the t - level before it , and therefore be available to education setting in Scotland that choose it ? my hon . friend be a champion of science , technology , engineering , math and skill , and he will know that education be devolve . the devolved administration be responsible for their education system , but the Department for Education be work with the government of the UK . we engage at both official and ministerial level when the advanced british standard be announce . we look forward to continue engagement as it be hopefully adopt across the United Kingdom . I thank the Minister for his response and his positivity . I echo the request of the hon . member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) to ensure that all the benefit of high education be present not only here on the mainland but across the whole United Kingdom . I know that be the Minister ' s wish , but can he confirm that , when it come to high technical qualification , girl and lady will have the same opportunity as young fella and young man ? I thank my hon . friend — he be my hon . friend — for his question . we be absolutely committed to make sure that woman take up high technical qualification , and we be do everything we can to support they with career advice to ensure that more take up STEM subject in particular . I call the shadow Minister . increase the take - up of high technical qualification be desperately need , with low take - up lead to persistent skill gap and hold back economic growth . college , which we be proud to celebrate during Love our Colleges Week , tell we of issue affect take - up , include a lack of quality career advice , challenge with stable staffing and late course approval . with the UK see only 10 % of adult whose high qualification be between level 3 and level 6 — the sixth low rate in the G7 — should not the Government address their cut to career advice , as Labour will , so that young people do not miss out because they hear about opportunity far too late ? I congratulate the hon . Lady on her new position , but I genuinely do not know what planet she have be live on these past few year . we introduce high technical qualification and be transform qualification across the country . we introduce t - level and spend £ 90 million to transform career advice . ninety per cent of school be in a career hub , and we have the National Careers Service . we be do a lot of work to support career , and we be spend something like £ 3 million to ensure that apprenticeship and skill be teach in school up and down the country — more than 2 , 000 school and 680 , 000 pupil . we be do huge amount on career , and we be the people who transform skill in our country . I think we ' ve get the story . the extra chapter be fine . Music Education in Schools what assessment her Department have make of the adequacy of the provision of music education in school . I congratulate the hon . Lady on her appointment as shadow Minister for music and tourism . the Government expect every school to teach music for at least an hour a week , support by our music hub network , include the Greater Manchester hub lead by the Bolton Music Service , and back by £ 25 million of capital for instrument and a new £ 10 , 000 bursary for trainee music teacher . last month , Ofsted report : " there remain a divide between the opportunity for child and young people whose family can afford to pay for music tuition and for those who come from low socio - economic background . " it also say that " half the primary school visit do not … offer any instrumental or vocal lesson " , and that what lesson exist be be teach by non - specialist teacher in two third of primary school . this be a damn reflection of the substantial decline in the provision of music education in England over which Conservative - lead government have preside . what urgent action will the Government take in response to these finding ? from September next year , every music hub will be require to support music tuition for disadvantaged pupil . we be invest £ 2 million in a music progression programme in education investment area to support up to 1 , 000 pupil to learn an instrument . from 2018 - 19 to 2022 - 23 , between 96 . 4 % and 94 . 7 % of all hour teach in music be teach by a teacher with a relevant post - a - level qualification . there be now 7 , 184 full - time music teacher in our secondary school , which be up from 7 , 000 last year . XYZ Music Academy teach over 2 , 000 child across Buckinghamshire on a weekly basis , employ 18 tutor . its online primary school music curriculum " XYZ Primary " help primary school with small budget to deliver music provision to a high standard , adhere to the model music curriculum and ofsted requirement . will my right hon . friend visit XYZ to learn more from this innovative small business that could be adopt more widely across the country ? I would be delighted to visit xyz . music in school be a personal passion for I ; I want to see more of it and a well quality of it . in 2021 , we publish the model music curriculum , which be design to help primary and secondary school to improve their music education . it take two year to produce and be write by a panel of music education practitioner , include Ed Watkins , head of music at the West London Free School , and Julian Lloyd Webber ; the panel be chair by Baroness Fleet . I would love to discuss that curriculum and learn more about XYZ . School Buildings what step she be take to improve school building . well - maintain school building be a priority for this Government , and we will spend whatever it take to keep child and staff safe . we have allocate £ 1 . 8 billion in 2023 - 24 — £ 15 billion since 2015 — to improve the condition of school building , and we be work to address reinforce autoclave aerate concrete . we be transform hundred of school across the country through our school rebuilding programme . the excellent Lakes School at Troutbeck Bridge serve the community of Windermere and Ambleside and those far afield with 11 - to - 18 education , but it be widely acknowledge that the school need a full rebuild because the building be well beyond their sell - by date . because of the unique history of the site , on which I be happy to brief the Minister separately , it be very likely that we will have significant charitable and private fund to help towards a rebuild , as long as there be some Government support as well . will he agree to meet I and the school leader to talk about how we can make sure that a brilliant school have a bright future ? absolutely ; I will be delighted to meet the hon . Gentleman . we want all our school , include excellent school such as the Lakes School in the Lake district , to have the good - quality school building . that be our priority , and I will be delighted to meet he and teacher at the school to discuss how to make it happen in his constituency . this Conservative Government will fund a new school to replace the flood - prone Tipton St John primary school . however , that can happen only once a suitable alternative site be find . will my right hon . friend do everything possible to speed up the process so that pupil have a safe new school as soon as possible ? we be work actively with the diocese of Exeter and with Devon County Council to identify suitable site for the school . site appraisal be due to be complete by the end of this year . once a site be identify , we will work with the diocese and the council to expedite the acquisition of the site . I fully understand and share my hon . friend ' s desire for urgency in this matter . I call the shadow Minister . last week , the Government add another 41 school and college to the RAAC list , bring the total to 214 . the Education Secretary claim that child prefer to learn in portacabin , but it be far from a joke when some be still wait for temporary classroom , study from home or in cramp sport hall and dining room . can the Minister confirm the total number of pupil who be already impact and be expect to be impact by this chaos ? when will all child receive undisrupted face - to - face learn ? surely that be the minimum that a parent can expect for their child . I congratulate the hon . Lady on her first education question and her appointment as shadow Schools Minister , although this be not our first exchange since her appointment . she be right : there be 214 school and college with confirm RAAC , which be an increase from the 173 we announce in September . of those 214 school , the pupil at 202 , or 94 % , be in full - time , face - to - face education , and 12 school or college be offer hybrid face - to - face and remote education . our objective and our focus be to ensure that school be support to put in place immediate measure to enable face - to - face education to continue . Holiday Activities and Food Programme what recent assessment her Department have make of the effectiveness of the holiday activity and food programme . the holiday activity and food programme introduce by this Government be hugely important to family up and down the country and support 685 , 000 child last summer . we know the positive impact that these programme be have on a range of issue , such as by improve attendance . one child in Stoke who attend a HAF programme run by the Kingsland CE Academy increase their school attendance by 32 % and be no long consider to be persistently absent . that be just one example of the wonderful work that HAF programme do , and there be also strong evidence that they improve health , behaviour and confidence in child . I have see at first hand just how brilliant the government - back holiday activity and food programme be for child and young people and their family in Eastbourne . in one magical piece of feedback , a little girl at the Art House caf é sidle up to I and say , " one day I will own a place just like this , " and I have see the same energy across the piece . give that we be hope that there be a connection between attendance and HAF uptake , what more can we do to provide and promote opportunity for child and young people with SEND , and also for the 11 - plus and early teen ? when it launch , HAF be the first summer camp for hundred of thousand of child — 70 % have never experience a holiday club before — and this summer , 4 , 000 child benefit in East Sussex . HAF be open to child from age five to 16 . local authority should meet the need of all cohort , include by offer programme for old child and those with special educational need . I urge all hon . member to visit their local HAF over the Christmas recess ; they really be heart - warming . I have visit my local HAF in Washington over the last few summer , and I certainly will if there be one at Christmas . do the Minister have any plan to extend the scheme far ? there be obviously a lot more need than the current HAF scheme can meet , especially with the cost of living crisis . as I mention , 685 , 000 child be help just this summer . our independent evaluation find that around two third of the 700 , 000 child attend overall live in some of the most deprive area across the country , so we believe we be get the target right . we be very proud of this programme , which we think be a brilliant addition to the landscape , and we want to ensure that it benefit as many people as possible . Provider Access Legislation whether her Department have conduct a review of the effectiveness of provider access legislation . we be hugely strengthen technical and provider access in school . we have legislate for pupil to have six encounter with apprentice organisation and technical college . Ofsted be look closely at career guidance , and the apprentice support and knowledge network be go into over 2 , 000 school , support 680 , 000 pupil and encourage they to take up apprenticeship or other skill offering . college in Southport have raise concern about career advice opportunity for student with SEND — specifically , about the suitability of the oversight and the suppose add value of these session . will my right hon . friend detail what step the Government be take to ensure that these session be personalise well to support SEND student in their transition into employment ? my hon . friend be a champion for special need pupil , and he be absolutely right . we need to ensure that special need pupil have employment opportunity , along with everybody else . we be invest over £ 18 million over the next three year in support internship scheme for high special need 16 - to - 19 pupil . we have a mentor scheme for disabled apprentice , the Careers & Enterprise Company have put in SEND support to ensure high - quality career guidance and training , and 82 % of SEND school be now part of career hub . as supportive as I be of this scheme , I do not think that up to six session really cut it . will the Minister consider a scheme similar to Aimhigher , which be introduce by the previous Labour Government to encourage young people into high education and down the vocational route ? this would give young people mentor who have be through apprenticeship scheme and really get they hooked on the opportunity that vocational education can bring . I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s question . my first speech in the House of Commons be about that very subject . the six encounter that I mention be the minimum . obviously , many school do more . only last week , I attend Oasis school in Bristol , and watch student be encourage to take up apprenticeship and to hold an apprenticeship career fair . we be do huge amount . I mention the apprenticeship skill and knowledge network , which be go around school and encourage pupil to take up apprenticeship . that involve more than 2 , 000 school and 680 , 000 pupil . we need to do as much as possible to educate student about apprenticeship and to ensure that they have the encounter that he rightly talk about . Childcare what step her Department be take to increase access to childcare for work parent . this Conservative Government be invest more in childcare than at any other point in our country ' s history , ensure that parent do not have to choose between have a family or have a career . with 30 hour of free childcare on offer from the end of parental leave to the start of school , the Under - Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Wantage ( David Johnston ) — I welcome he to his place — be work hard to expand the capacity through new capital investment , more avenue into the workforce and increase childcare rate . at a Westminster Hall debate on childcare early this year , before the Secretary of State ' s propose change be announce , I express concern that low - income family be face high childcare cost that might make it sub - economic to return to work . will she tell I how the change that she have be make will help prevent that ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . just to remind everybody , under Labour , parent get just 12 . 5 hour for three and four - year - old — less than an hour of free childcare per year in office . we will be spend more than £ 8 billion a year by 2027 - 28 to fund 30 hour of free childcare for work parent of child age nine month to the start of primary school and give every parent access to wraparound childcare between 8 am and 6 pm , meanwhile , Labour still do not have a policy for parent . a nursery owner in my constituency tell I how the Government ' s fund for so - call " free " hour cover only about half of their cost , and even with the recently announce uplift for three and four - year - old , the rate simply do not meet their need . the Early Years Alliance find that a third of childcare provider suggest that they may close within a year due to rise cost . what will the Secretary of State do to ensure that all these parent who be be tell that they be now eligible for free childcare be actually able to access some ? specifically , I will deliver free childcare for all parent of nine - month - old until they start school . we have work with 10 , 000 business to make sure that we get this right . we be support the development of new place , by increase the rate by up to £ 200 million this year and £ 288 million next year . we also have a huge programme of work . we will be consider all option to make sure that we be increase the capacity in the system and that there be enough money in the system to deliver on our policy . multi - disciplinary subject whether her Department be take step to increase the number of multi - disciplinary subject teach to student before university . I share my hon . friend ' s view about the importance of a broad curriculum , which be why the English Baccalaureate combination of core gcse be so important . english , math , at least two science , a humanity and a foreign language be a key preparation for the Advanced British Standard at age 16 to 19 . the proportion of pupil enter for the EBacc have increase from 22 % in 2010 to 39 % in 2022 . when I be a student — and a bit of a surfer dude — at the University of Southern California , I be strike by the fact that Americans , when they go to university , do not have to make the choice when they be 16 or 17 between art and science . will the initiative announce by the Secretary of State in Manchester mean that , in future , british student will not have to make that early choice ? increase the number of subject under the Advanced British Standard mean that student will have the benefit of the great breadth of study that my hon . friend reference from his own experience as a surfing dude . the intention be that major will have comparable depth and rigour to a - level so that they can support progression , include to university . education : 16 to 19 - year - old what step her Department be take to support people age 16 to 19 in education . we be invest an additional £ 3 . 8 billion over the course of the Parliament to strengthen post - 16 education and training , and we will boost 16 - to - 19 funding by £ 1 . 6 billion compare with 2021 - 22 . we have launch our t - level programme , and 52 % of apprenticeship start in 2022 - 23 provisionally be by young people under 25 . I thank my right hon . friend for that answer . do the Department have any jurisdiction over an academy refuse to offer a sixth - form place to a high - perform pupil with special educational need who have more than meet the academic requirement for one ? I be really sorry to hear about the difficult experience of my hon . friend ' s constituent ; I be disturb to hear what have go on . I know that my hon . friend have raise the matter in correspondence with the Department , which the Under - Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Wantage ( David Johnston ) , recently address . I hope that her constituent be now safely settle in at her new college , but the Schools Minister and I will absolutely look at this again . I call Emma Hardy — not here . apprenticeship start : 2022 - 23 what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the number of apprenticeship start in the 2022 - 23 academic year . there be more than 335 , 000 start in the 2022 - 23 academic year and more people undertake high - level apprenticeship , with start at level 4 and above increase by 7 % . those be provisional figure ; further figure will be set out in November . we be increase investment in apprenticeship to £ 2 . 7 billion by 2024 - 25 . I thank the Minister for that answer , but give the decline in level 2 and 3 apprenticeship start , might it be an idea to consider the view of lead industry expert who be call for the ringfencing of apprenticeship for 16 to 18 - year - old ? I say to the hon . Gentleman , whom I respect enormously , that 70 % of apprentice be at level 2 or 3 . I hope that he would be get up to celebrate the 10 , 130 apprenticeship start in Birmingham , Selly Oak since May 2010 . high - quality Childcare what step she be take to help ensure the availability of high - quality childcare . we be invest over £ 4 . 1 billion to expand the current free childcare entitlement offer to eligible work parent of child age nine to 36 month . we be also increase the hourly rate for childcare provider for the exist entitlement , and funding rate will be confirm in the autumn . the Government ' s proposal will lead to thousand more family expect to access childcare , so we might expect to see more childcare opening . however , in the past year some 600 nursery have already close , and in my constituency of Walthamstow there be now three child chase every childcare place . why do the Minister think that be the case , what will he do about it , and how will we ensure that in April parent who be not already access childcare can do so ? part of the reason why we be stagger the entitlement be to ensure that we have the staff in place to deliver it . in the next few week we will announce change to the process for recruit people . we will launch a big campaign of recruitment in the new year to increase the workforce , and I have every confidence that we will meet the commitment . special Needs education : fund what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of funding for special need education . high need funding for child and young people with complex need be increase by a furth £ 440 million next year , bring the total high need budget to £ 10 . 5 billion in 2024 - 25 — 60 % high than it be in 2019 - 20 . I be grateful to the Minister for that response , and I hear the early response , but there be a shortage of place in special need school — special school for child who need those place . will he carry out a national assessment of the number of place that be available in special school against the number of place that be need , because it be result in some child have to attend mainstream school when actually they should be in special school ? my hon . friend make an important point . we have approve the opening of 78 special school , and this year we collect new datum from local authority on their capacity and demand forecast for special school . that will help we to support they more effectively to fulfil their duty to provide sufficient place . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . Mr Speaker , I stand with this House in condemn the barbaric terrorist attack on Israel . the brutal action of Hamas have send shockwave that have reverberate all the way to our shore . my ministerial team and I recently meet leader from the jewish education community . I be deeply move by the experience that they share but horrify by the rise in antisemitism that they face . that be totally unacceptable . all student deserve to learn without fear or harassment . disturbingly , I have also see evidence of student and academic appear to support Hamas . let I be crystal clear : Hamas be a terrorist organisation and support it be a criminal act . the Government will take action against those who do . with my Ministers , I have write to school , college and university , remind they of their duty under Prevent and that incident of antisemitism will not be tolerate . we teach our child the british value of liberty , mutual respect and tolerance . this government will always stand by those value . I join my right hon . friend in the comment that she have just make . strike action in school have cause significant disruption to child and parent in my constituency and result in the loss of some 25 million school day across the country . I welcome the part that my right hon . friend play in bring the dispute to an end , with the large pay award for teacher in 30 year . however , what further step be she take to protect child from the impact of future strike action ? my right hon . friend be correct : it be unacceptable that the disruption cause over 10 day of strike action see million of school day lose . that be why the Government be introduce minimum service level in school and college , to protect child and parent from the damaging impact of future strike action . we must find a balance between teacher ' right to strike and protect child ' s education . in the first instance , we have ask union to work with we on a voluntary agreement . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I join the Secretary of State in recognise the impact of the conflict in the middle east on our education system here and the importance of every child be able to attend school safely . rate of persistent absence be now double what they be five year ago . labour ' s plan start with reset the relationship between family and school , deliver new mental health hub , and have counsellor in every secondary school and breakfast club for every primary school child . the Prime Minister ' s first step be to say that he have maxe out on support our child , and now the Secretary of State be blame parent for keep child at home with a cold . when be minister go to get a grip on this serious problem ? we do take this issue extremely seriously ; as I say , it be my no . 1 priority . the Attendance Action Alliance include the Children ' s Commissioner , Department of Health and Social Care representative , social worker and many other work together . the letter be send to help parent because we have notice that in some case there have be a change in attendance as a result of parent not be clear about whether they should send their child to school with minor ailment . Chris Whitty take it upon himself to write , and we very much support his action . persistent absence be a symptom of a wide breakdown of trust right across our school system . it be no surprise , give that the Conservatives reopen pub before they reopen school , that they have leave school to crumble , and that they have allow disruptive strike action to drag on for month . labour ' s first priority will be to rebuild that relationship between school , family and Government . do the Secretary of State not believe that parent and child deserve a lot well than the sorry mess she be preside over today ? the hon . Lady talk about responsibility and accountability . when Labour be warn about RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — in 1997 , 1999 , 2002 and 2007 , they do nothing . when Labour spend money on school rebuilding , they ignore school condition altogether . [ interruption . ] the hon . Lady need to listen to this . they even rebuild three school and leave RAAC within the building . a school even collapse in 2018 . what do they do in Wales ? absolutely nothing . we make the tough decision . labour can not even make a single decision . in the wake of the massacre that occur in Israel — the great loss of life since the holocaust — case of antisemitism in this country have rise by 582 % , and jewish student on our campus feel very unsafe . glorification of this massacre have be carry out at Warwick University , Bristol University , University College London and the School of oriental and African Studies . it be unacceptable for university to tolerate such activity , so will my right hon . friend join I in condemn antisemitism and state what she will do to ensure that jewish student feel safe on campus and can study like every other british citizen ? sadly , there be a number of Hamas ' s useful idiot — a fifth column — across some of our university . the Secretary of State have say that she will not stand for it ; the Home Secretary will not stand for it . we have write to university . this be absolutely unacceptable ; we expect our university to be safe place for all jewish student . I call the SNP spokesperson . if the pay offer for teacher in England have match the award for teacher in Scotland , the Secretary of State would have avert the current strike action . Paul Whiteman , the general secretary of the National Association of Head Teachers , have say that minimum service level for teacher be " nothing short of an overtly hostile act from the Government and an attack on the basic democratic freedom of school leader and teacher . " will the Secretary of State explain how she expect to tackle the staffing crisis in teaching when she go out of her way to alienate the profession ? we have a record number of teacher in school in England : 468 , 000 . that be 27 , 000 more teacher today than in 2010 . we accept the recommendation of the School Teachers ' Review Body for a 6 . 5 % pay rise — the high in 30 year — for teacher and headteacher in our school system . like all county council , Staffordshire County Council be struggle with the rise demand for special educational need and disability support in school , and with lengthy delay in issue education , health and care plan . that be leave child and family with a lack of vital support and appropriate education for their need . what step be the Government take to tackle the shortage of educational psychologist and to ensure that child receive the education that they need to achieve good outcome ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the importance of educational psychologist . we be invest £ 21 million to train 400 more educational psychologist , build on the £ 10 million already announce to train more than 200 from this term . the Department for Education have state that " where responsible body discover lead piping , they must take action " . will the Secretary of State confirm whether those body be ask to look proactively for lead piping ? what action be they ask to take if any be find ? school must have suitable drinking water facility . where responsible body , such as local authority or academy trust , discover lead piping in a school , they must take action , work as appropriate with water company . capital funding allocate to school each year can be use to fund the removal of pipe work if require , but when a school have a particular concern , it can contact the Department for assistance . I welcome the idea of the advanced british standard assessment , although the name be unwieldy — acronym be use elsewhere — and difficult to export . that aside , have there be any more exploration of what the curriculum would look like and of how many year young people would need to study for the qualification ? do it mean the end of gcse ? no , it do not . the advanced british standard will offer a broad , balanced and knowledge - rich curriculum that build on reform of the last decade . its curriculum will form a core part of the formal consultation in the come month . gcse remain important , rigorous and highly regarded qualification , provide preparation for the new advanced british standard . when do the Minister anticipate that it might be possible to deliver at least half of all education , health and care plan for SEND child within the Government ' s own legal timeframe ? we be undertake a significant programme of reform to ensure not only that ehcp be deliver in the right timeframe but that child get the support they need at an early stage without need one . will my right hon . friend outline the support provide to the Metropolitan Borough of Bury by the Government to enhance educational provision for child with special educational need ? the Metropolitan Borough of Bury be get significant support . in addition to the funding increase , we have appoint a SEND adviser to work with the borough to improve service . the Council for Disabled Children be support it to strengthen ehcp . two special free school have be approve , and Bury be also one of 34 area in our safety valve programme . in recent week , we have see report instance of antisemitism rise by 1 , 300 % and Islamophobia by 150 % , with jewish kid afraid to go to school and muslim kid ask , " whose side be you on ? " what be the Government do to ensure that child be teach sensitively but robustly about the wrong of such intolerance , and do Ofsted have a role in ensure consistency of approach in all school ? the hon . member be absolutely right : antisemitism have no place in education . it be an honour to join the Secretary of State ' s visit to Menorah High School last week , together with the whole ministerial team , stand in solidarity with that school and with the jewish community . we have write to all school and college urge a swift response to hate - relate incident and active reassurance for their student and staff , and we continue to work with faith leader , school and ofste to monitor the response to those concern . far to the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , since Hamas ' s attack , jewish student on campus report that they have have a year ' s worth of antisemitic incident in only two week . some have be target , the attack itself be celebrate , and some have receive death threat . as such , do the Minister agree that university should work with the Union of jewish Students to publicise the welfare hotline that it have establish ; avail themselves of the training that the UJS offer ; and work to implement the recommendation of the recent report of the taskforce on antisemitism in high education ? I have make it clear that we will not tolerate antisemitism on campus . we be work closely with the Union of jewish Students and the high education jewish chaplaincy service , as well as the Community Security Trust . I welcome the taskforce ' s report and its recommendation , and we absolutely urge university to prioritise the implementation of that report . have recently visit a local nursery in Birdwell , I know that its staff be very concerned about their ability to plan for provision for child in the year 2024 - 25 . when will the Government give they certainty on hourly rate ? we will be set out the funding rate very shortly . one day after Hamas ' s brutal massacre in Israel , a student at the University of Manchester speak of be full of " pride and joy " at a once - in - a - lifetime experience — not only a disgusting comment but one that point to possible extremism in our university campus . far too many think that there be no consequence for spread such hate in our educational setting , so will my right hon . friend set out what the real consequence be ? I mention previously that unfortunately , we have some of Hamas ' s useful idiot across our campus , and we will not stand for it — they represent a fifth column support terrorism . we be do everything possible . the Prevent duty require high education provider to have due regard to the need to prevent people from be draw into terrorism , and we will work with the university to ensure that they take any extremist activity very seriously . James , a 14 - year - old lad from my constituency , have be pass from pillar to post by school that simply can not deal with his attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and autism . will the Minister meet I on that specific case ? I would be delighted to meet with the hon . Gentleman . Israel and Gaza Mr Speaker , last week I visit the middle east , bring a message of solidarity with the region against terror and against the further spread of conflict . I meet with the leader of Israel , Saudi Arabia , Qatar , Egypt and the Palestinian Authority to co - ordinate our response to the crisis before we , but also to renew the well vision of the future that Hamas be try to destroy . I travel first to Israel . it be a nation in mourning , but it be also a nation under attack . the violence against Israel do not end on 7 October . hundred of rocket be launch at its town and city every day , and Hamas still hold around 200 hostage , include british citizen . in Jerusalem , I meet some of the relative , who be suffer unbearable torment . their pain will stay with I for the rest of my day . I be do everything in my power , and work with all our partner , to get their love one home . in my meeting with Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Herzog , I tell they once again that we stand resolutely with Israel in defend itself against terror , and I stress again the need to act in line with international humanitarian law and take every possible step to avoid harm civilian . it be a message deliver by a close friend and ally . I say it again : we stand with Israel . I recognise that the palestinian people be suffer terribly . over 4 , 000 Palestinians have be kill in this conflict . they be also the victim of Hamas , who embe themselves in the civilian population . too many life have already be lose , and the humanitarian crisis be grow . I go to the region to address these issue directly . in Riyadh , and then Cairo , I meet individually with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman from Saudi Arabia ; the Amir of Qatar , Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al - Thani ; President Sisi in Egypt ; and President Abbas of the Palestinian Authority . these be further to my meeting with the King of Jordan last week and call with other leader , and my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary ' s extensive travel in the region . there be three abide message from all these conversation . first , we must continue work together to get more humanitarian support into Gaza . the whole House will welcome the limited opening of the Rafah crossing . it be important progress and testament to the power of diplomacy , but it be not enough . we need a constant stream of aid pour in , bring the water , food , medicine and fuel that be so desperately need , so we will keep up the diplomatic pressure . we have already commit £ 10 million of extra support to help civilian in Gaza , and I can announce today that we be go far . we be provide an additional £ 20 million of humanitarian aid to civilian in Gaza , more than double our previous support to the palestinian people . there be major logistical and political challenge to deliver this aid , which I discuss with President Sisi . my right hon . friend the Development Minister be lead an effort to ensure the maximum amount of aid be pre - positioned , with UK support ready to deliver . we be also work intensively to ensure that british national trap in Gaza be able to leave through the Rafah crossing when it properly reopen . secondly , this be not a time for hyperbole and simplistic solution . it be a time for quiet and dogged diplomacy that recognise the hard reality on the ground and deliver help now , and we have an important role to play . in all my meeting , people be clear that they value Britain ' s engagement . the UK ' s voice matter . we have deep tie across the region — tie of defence , trade and investment , but also of history . President Abbas point to that history — not the british mandate in Palestine or the Balfour declaration , but the UK ' s effort over decade to support the two - state solution . thirdly , grow attack by Hezbollah on Israel ' s northern border , rise tension on the west bank , and missile and drone launch from Yemen show that some be seek escalation , so we need to invest more deeply in regional stability and in the two - state solution . last night , I speak to the leader of the United States , Germany , France , Italy and Canada . we be all determined to prevent escalation . that be why I be deploy RAF and Royal Navy asset , monitor threat to regional security and support humanitarian effort . our support for a two - state solution be highly value across the region , but it can not just be a clich é d talking point to roll out at time like this . the truth be that , in recent year , energy have move into other avenue such as the Abraham accord and normalisation talk with Saudi Arabia . we support those step absolutely and believe that they can bolster wide effort , but we must never lose sight of how essential the two - state solution be . we will work with our international partner to bring renew energy and creativity to that effort . it will rely on establish more effective governance for palestinian territory in Gaza and the west bank . it will also mean challenging action that undercut legitimate aspiration for palestinian statehood . Mr Speaker , Hamas care more about their paymaster in Iran than the child they hide behind . so let I be clear : there be no scenario where Hamas can be allow to control Gaza or any part of the palestinian territory . Hamas be a threat not only to Israel , but to many other across the region . all the leader I meet agree that this be a watershed moment . it be time to set the region on a well path . I also want to say a word about the tone of the debate . when thing be so delicate , we all have a responsibility to take additional care in the language we use , and to operate on the basis of fact alone . the reaction to the horrific explosion at the Al - Ahli Arab Hospital be a case in point . as I indicate last week , we have take care to look at all the evidence currently available , and I can now share our assessment with the House . on the basis of the deep knowledge and analysis of our intelligence and weapon expert , the british Government judge that the explosion be likely cause by a missile , or part of one , that be launch from within Gaza towards Israel . the misreporting of that incident have a negative effect in the region , include on a vital US diplomatic effort , and on tension here at home . we need to learn the lesson and ensure that in future there be no rush to judgment . we have see hate on our street again this weekend . we all stand in solidarity with the palestinian people — that be the message I bring to President Abbas — but we will never tolerate antisemitism in our country . call for jihad on our street be a threat not only to the jewish community but to our democratic value , and we expect the police to take all necessary action to tackle extremism head on . this a moment for great care and caution , but also for moral clarity . Hope and humanity must win out against the scourge of terrorism and aggression . the 7 October attack be drive by hatred , but it be also drive by Hamas ' s fear that a new equilibrium might be emerge in the middle east , one that would leave old division behind and offer hope of a well , more secure , more prosperous way forward . it be the same motivation that drive Putin ' s war in Ukraine — the fear of Ukraine ' s emergence as a modern , thrive democracy , and the desire to pull it back into some imperialist fantasy of the past . Putin will fail , and so will Hamas . we must keep alive that vision of a well future , against those who seek to destroy it . together with our partner , that be what we will do , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . thank you , Mr Speaker , and I thank the Prime Minister for the advance copy of his statement . the brutal attack in Israel just over two week ago be the dark day in jewish history since the holocaust — two week of grief for the innocent people who lose brother , sister , child ; two week of torture for the family whose love one be take hostage by Hamas . there be a small glimmer of light this weekend with the release of two american hostage , Natalie and Judith Raanan . I meet member of their family last week , and I know that they will be overcome with relief . but Hamas still hold hundred more — son , daughter , mum , dad be still miss . they be innocent people who could , if Hamas will it , be release immediately . but they remain hostage because Hamas want the chaos of war . Hamas want Jews to suffer . Hamas want the palestinian people to share in the pain , because the palestinian people be not their cause , and peace be not their aim . the dignity of human life — Jew or Muslim — mean absolutely nothing to they . in light of their barbarism , Israel have the right to defend herself . yes , to get her hostage home , but also to defeat Hamas so that nobody need suffer like this again and so that we might once more see a road to a last peace , with a palestinian state alongside a safe and secure Israel . this operation can and must be do within international law . we democracy know that all human life be equal . innocent life must be protect . those be the principle that differentiate we from the terrorist who target Israel . there must now be clear humanitarian corridor within Gaza for those escape violence . civilian must not be target . where Palestinians be force to flee , they must not be permanently displace from their home . international law be clear . it also mean that basic service , include water , electricity and the fuel need for it , can not be deny . Hamas might not care for the safety and security of the palestinian people , but we do . we can not and will not close our eye to their suffering . Gaza be now a humanitarian emergency . there be not enough food . clean water be run out . hospital be go without medicine and electricity . People be starve , reduce to drinking contaminate filth . baby be lie in incubator that could switch off at any moment . the deal strike by the United States to get a flow of truck through the Rafah crossing be an important first step . there be 20 on Saturday and 14 on Sunday , but it be nowhere near enough . Gaza be not a small town face a few shortage ; it have a population the size of Greater Manchester . it be a place where , even before this devastation , life be a struggle . Gaza need aid , and it need to be rapid , safe , unhindered and regular . country able to provide support must step up , include the United Kingdom , so I welcome the increase funding for humanitarian aid that the Prime Minister have announce this afternoon . the EU have promise to treble humanitarian aid and the US have appoint a special co - ordinator for international aid to Gaza . I ask whether the Prime Minister can commit to the same , because Britain must stand ready to ensure that aid get to the right place , to deploy british expert and medical support team , and to work with international partner to give UN agency the resource they need for the long term , because there be a long term . even as we stand by Israel in her fight against Hamas , our eye must also look to the future : a future where israeli citizen live free from the fear of terrorist attack , and a future for the palestinian people where they and their child enjoy the freedom and opportunity that we take for grant . for too long , we have talk about a two - state solution and the dignity and justice of a palestinian state alongside a safe and secure Israel , without a serious path or will to make it happen . for too long , we have allow welcome progress in improve relation between Israel and her neighbour to sit without any progress on the future for Palestine and its people . that must change . we stand with Israel and her right to defend herself against the terrorist of Hamas . we stand for international law , the protection of innocent life and humanitarian support for the Palestinians . we do so because we stand for a political path to a two - state solution and a well future . these be dark day , but the light must never go out . we must not let it . I thank the Leader of the Opposition for his constructive comment and his support . just to recap , on humanitarian aid , by announce an additional £ 20 million today , we will be double our aid to the region , where we be already one of the lead contributor of any country in the world . the Development Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , will remind I , but I think that about 10 % of the UN mission in the region be fund by UK contribution . Most of our aid be funnel through that . it be also worth bear in mind that President Sisi specifically commend the effort of the UK alongside the US in ensure that the Rafah crossing could be open and function . that be testament to the work of the Development Minister , the Foreign Secretary and our team on the ground . in response to the Leader of the Opposition ' s question with regard to the UN , the Development Minister be in close contact — on an almost daily basis — with Martin Griffiths , the head of the UN ' s humanitarian relief effort , to ensure that the UK can play a lead role in support what be happen on the ground . there be considerable logistical challenge in get aid to the people who need it , and there be area where we can make a difference , particularly around el - Arish , the logistical hub that supply be move to . I confirm that tomorrow the Development Minister will lay a write ministerial statement set out further detail of the increase in humanitarian aid that we have announce today . in closing , I concur with what the Leader of the opposition say . there be absolutely a future available to we that be more prosperous and more stable for people live in the region ; one where people can live with dignity , with security and with opportunity . that be the future that Hamas be try to destroy . we should stand united to stop that happen . do my right hon . friend get any impression from his discussion with arab leader that they understand the purpose of Hamas terrorism to derail their effort to find a well way of live in the middle east ? be he satisfied that they be sufficiently aware of the benefit that Russia hope to derive from all this and the need to deter Iran from further escalation ? I can tell my right hon . friend from all my conversation across the region with arab leader that there be absolutely no love or affection for Hamas . indeed , it be the opposite , as the palestinian President say with I when he condemn in no uncertain term the terrorist atrocity that they have perpetrate . all leader see Hamas as a destabilising influence in the region and want to work with we and other to prevent the situation from escalate and to limit Hamas ' s ability to carry out attack like this in the future . I call the leader of the SNP . I say last week that history would judge we base on our response not just to the abhorrent terrorist attack in Israel but to the humanitarian crisis that be undoubtedly unfold in Gaza . in our collective unequivocal condemnation of the abhorrent attack of 7 October , the House have be and continue to be fully united , just as we be unite in our condemnation of any form of antisemitism that rear its head on these isle , and in our thought and prayer for all the hostage , who need to be return safely to their family . however , in respect of the humanitarian crisis in Gaza , while I welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement , I believe that we must go far . here be why . turn off electricity and water to Gaza be collective punishment . limit the free access of food and medicine to Gaza be collective punishment . prevent people , include british citizen , from flee Gaza be collective punishment . drop leaflet in northern Gaza tell people to flee or they will be deem partner of Hamas be a precursor to further collective punishment . all of we in the Chamber know that collective punishment be prohibit by international law . I ask the Prime Minister to use his office to do some good on the humanitarian side of the conflict in Gaza and to answer the question I ask last week . give the severity of this appalling situation , will he now agree that a ceasefire be require in the region ? I would characterise the situation differently from the hon . Gentleman , with the great of respect . Israel have suffer an appalling act of terror . it have the right to defend itself and ensure that something like it do not happen again . he talk about people move from the north to south of Gaza ; it be absolutely right that Israel take every precaution to avoid harm civilian . in my conversation with the President , he confirm that Israel intend to act within international humanitarian law , but Hamas be prevent people from move , keep they in harm ' s way . the hon . Gentleman do not mention that in his question , but he would do well to recognise that that be Hamas ' s policy : embed themselves in civilian population , use civilian as human shield and prevent they from leave when they have be give advance notice . where I agree , and have be very clear , be that we must do everything we can to support humanitarian effort in Gaza . I refer the hon . gentleman to my previous comment . I raise all those issue with the israeli Prime Minister , and we will continue to do everything we can . again , I point out that it be not just a function of money but about the logistic of get very considerable amount of aid into the region . the UK have capability and expertise that we be very willing to bring to bear , and we be have active discussion about how good to do so . let I start by thank the Chelmsford Muslim community for host a meeting that bring together jewish , muslim and christian leader on Friday . all be deeply shock by the event of 7 October . there be no place for hate , but there be great concern about the loss of civilian life since then , and the risk of contagion and of the situation escalate even far . I thank our Prime Minister for say that , in defend itself from terror , Israel also need to act within international law . how be that be monitor ? if there be breach , how would any perpetrator be hold to account ? my right hon . friend will know that there be establish mechanism for that , but I be reassure by what the israeli President have say very publicly and in our conversation that Israel intend to act within humanitarian law and be take every precaution to avoid harm civilian . we all condemn the attack by Hamas on innocent civilian , but since then thousand of innocent Palestinians — include child — have be kill by the israeli army ' s bombardment , which I also condemn . over a million Palestinians have be displace , and many more be suffer without access to food , water , electricity , fuel and medicine , which be inhumane and against international law . will the Prime Minister join I in call for a ceasefire today , to end this collective punishment ? again , Israel have the right the defend itself in line with international and humanitarian law , and it have our support in do that . rise — order . the statement will run until 5 o ' clock , so let we help one another to get everyone in . how can member of the british jewish community feel safe when people be allow to chant on the street of Britain in favour of jihad , call for the raising of religious army to go and fight Israel , call for the mobilisation of the intifada , and walk down our street hold sign that display despicable ancient antisemitic trope ? those be marche not for peace but for hate . they glorify the bad murder of Jews since the holocaust , and they have to stop . hateful extremism have no place in our society . call for jihad and for muslim army to rise up be a threat not only to the jewish community but to our democratic value . the police be operationally independent , but the Home Secretary have a role in hold police force to account . as member will know , she raise this matter with the Met police commissioner at their meeting early today . anyone who commit a crime — whether incite racial hatred , glorify terrorism or violate public order — should expect to face the full force of the law . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement . I agree with he and the Leader of the Opposition that the humanitarian crisis in Gaza be truly horrifying . to prevent a catastrophe it be essential that far more aid reach the people who need it and it be vital that the hostage be unconditionally release . Hamas ' s evil attack have claim far too many innocent life already . Israel unquestionably have the right to protect its citizen and target these brutal terrorist in line with international law , just as we all have a duty to prevent more needless civilian death . do the Prime Minister agree with many of we , include the Archbishop of Canterbury , that the UK should be lead diplomatic effort to secure a pause in hostility with a temporary humanitarian ceasefire to allow for the hostage to be release and to get aid into Gaza ? let I just say exactly what I have be try to do over the past week : ensure that we can diplomatically engage with partner in the region — as , indeed , the Foreign Secretary have be do . that have result in humanitarian aid come into Gaza . More need to come , but that be a sign of progress . in all our conversation , particularly with the Emir of Qatar , we be focus on release hostage of all nationality , but we be particularly concerned about the british hostage . we will continue to have that engagement with our partner to do everything in our power to secure the release of the hostage . my right hon . friend know that I be one of the member of this House who take the most satisfaction in the fact that it be he who be Prime Minister of this great democratic country , with all the power of analysis that he bring to his role . we be all in this nation accountable before the law — perhaps the only one who be not have to act on my right hon . friend ' s advice anyway , and he be accountable before the law like everyone else . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement , but we do not quite get to the conclusion . this be a watershed moment : we be either go to build a future that be base on a kill field in Gaza , or we be go to have a ceasefire and the opportunity to bring the necessary aid there for all the people who be suffer now so appallingly . my right hon . friend know that we must operate within the law . the law be clear and it require a ceasefire to be implement now . it be difficult to tell Israel to have a ceasefire when it be still face rocket fire on an almost daily basis and when its citizen be still be hold hostage . it have suffer an appalling terrorist attack and have a right to defend itself , but , as I have say , it be important that that be do in accordance with international law and it be important that Israel take every possible precaution to avoid harm civilian . base on all my conversation , that be something we will continue to expect and continue to impress on the israeli Government . nobody be argue about whether Israel have a right to defend itself , but my constituent want to know what have already be ask by member from the Prime Minister ' s own side : what happen if international law be not follow ? can the Prime Minister give some assurance to the country , and to people in my constituency , that if Israel breach international law in its endeavour to defend itself , he will stand at that Dispatch Box and say so ? as the hon . Lady well know , there be establish process and mechanism to take account of international law . but again , we can not lose sight , just a week or two later , of the fact that Hamas — an absolutely evil terrorist organisation — have perpetrate a horrific attack on over 1 , 000 people in Israel , and Israel have the right to defend itself and ensure that that do not happen again . I commend my right hon . friend for his recent attempt in the middle east and for his reminder that the UK , regardless of political party , have be behind the two - state solution from the word go . it be also become very clear , as he reference , that Iran ' s hand be behind all the genocidal murdering and kidnapping of jewish israeli people . I therefore ask a simple question . if we know all this , and we now know it be abroad in the UK create useful idiot to go out and promote its propaganda , be it not time that we review again the role of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps with a view to ban its activity , and the role of iranian bank here in the UK , in the City of London ? why be they still here get money and put it towards terrorist activity ? we have already take strong action , such as sanction more than 350 iranian individual and entity , include the irgc in its entirety . furthermore , the National Security Act 2023 implement new measure to protect the british public , include new offence of espionage and foreign interference . as my right hon . friend know , we do not comment on specific organisation and whether they be be consider for proscription , but he can rest assure that we discus Iran and how good to contain it with all our ally on a regular basis . indiscriminate bombing and obliterate entire neighbourhood be a war crime . collective punishment and starve a population of necessity be a war crime . order 1 . 1 million people to leave their home and forcibly displace they be a war crime as well . I absolutely condemn Hamas ' s killing of israeli civilian , and I echo the call for the release of hostage , but that do not excuse war crime , and merely say that international law should be follow when it be clearly not be follow be an insult . let I ask the Prime Minister this : how many more Palestinians must die before he condemn Israel for violate international law , and call for an immediate ceasefire ? as I have make very clear , we support the palestinian people because they be victim of Hamas too . we mourn the loss of every innocent life ; we mourn the loss of civilian of every faith and every nationality who have be kill in this conflict . however , I simply disagree with the hon . Lady ' s characterisation of what be go on . there be a significant difference between a terrorist organisation that deliberately and specifically target the killing , mutilation and murder of innocent civilian — include child and woman and baby — a couple of week ago , and Israel ' s lawful right to defend itself and go after those perpetrator . I thank the Prime Minister for all the effort that he and his team be make at this time . during the important discussion that he be have with leader in the region at the end of last week about get more humanitarian assistance into Gaza — and that be exactly right — be he able to obtain any new information about the welfare of hostage who have be take by Hamas into Gaza ? they include many elderly people , toddler with medical need and disabled people . be it not important for we to make sure that they be not forget , and that the supply go into Gaza reach the hostage as well ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise an excellent point . it be difficult to ascertain that information precisely , but I give he the reassurance that we be talk extensively to our partner . I have a very constructive conversation with the Emir of Qatar about this issue to put pressure on those hold the hostage to release they unconditionally and to ensure their wellbeing in the meantime . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement . give that Hizb ut - Tahrir be a fundamentalist organisation that be ban in 40 country and across most of the arab world , why be its member allow to parade on the street of London and call for the destruction of the state of Israel ? as I have say , we do of course keep the list of proscribe organisation under review , but we do not routinely comment on whether an organisation be or be not under consideration for proscription . I refer the hon . gentleman to my early comment : hateful extremism of the type that we see this weekend have no place in our society , and it should be meet with the full force of the law . a group of 100 journalist from around the world have just be show some indescribable raw footage of the Hamas attack in a private screening . accord to a BBC journalist , it feature a father and two son age roughly seven and nine see run into a shelter in their underwear . a terrorist throw a grenade into the shelter , kill the father and badly injure the two boy , who run back into the house cover in blood . the two child be scream for their father , and say that they be go to die . the terrorist be see calmly drink water from the family ' s fridge . that be just one of the video that have be show to 100 journalist from around the world in the last couple of hour . will the Prime Minister confirm that any person in the United Kingdom support this vicious terrorism will be subject to the full force of the law ? I see much of the same footage myself on my visit to Israel last week and I can tell the House that it be absolutely horrifying to watch . when we hear in this House about Israel ' s action , it be important to have those image in our mind . what happen to its citizen be unforgivable and it have every right to defend itself against that . I can also provide my right hon . and learn Friend with the reassurance that , as he well know , under the Terrorism act of 2000 and 2006 , the glorification of terrorism , support for proscribe organisation and the encouraging of terrorism be all offence and will be meet with the full force of law . the Prime Minister say in his statement that this be a moment for moral clarity , and I agree with he . the humanitarian situation in Gaza be dire at the moment : 34 truck have go in , set against a normal backdrop of hundred go in every day . we be on a precipice , with people include woman and child in hospital die because of shortage of power , water and food . I welcome the money for aid but , if it can not get in , it be not help . what can the Prime Minister do to get that aid in , in the quantity that will prevent avoidable death in Gaza ? last week , President Sisi himself commend the United Kingdom for our diplomatic effort to ensure the access of humanitarian aid into Gaza , and I thank my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary and the Development Minister for their effort in that regard . we in this House should be proud of the UK ' s effort to ensure that that access be now open . of course we need more , and that be why the logistical support that we can provide to ensure that high volume of aid can flow freely to the people who need it be imperative . the Development Minister be extensively engage with the UN on that topic . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement . my constituency have be the location for two major solidarity with Palestine protest over the past two Saturdays , and I suspect that there will be more to come . the jewish community in Westminster have highlight to I that these protest start just a few minute ' walk from synagogue and that they coincide with the end of Shabbat service . do the Prime Minister agree that , if further such protest go ahead , the timing and location of their start should be consider , to take into account that member of the jewish community be still worried about their safety and that the protest coincide with their Shabbat ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue . there be no place on british street for demonstration , convoy or flag - wave that not only glorify terrorism but harass the jewish community . there be no place for antisemitism on our street , which be why we have also increase funding for the Community Security Trust to protect british Jews from these type of incident . the decision that she refer to be typically operational decision for the police and local community , but I will very much bear in mind what she have say in our further engagement with those entity and individual . I thank the Prime Minister for advance sight of his statement and for his calmness in the face of the barbarity that the world have witness . I also welcome the comment from the Leader of the opposition and agree with the solidarity that have be express — hopefully profoundly — across the House . I want to draw the Prime Minister ' s attention to the murder by the terrorist of Kim Damti , a 22 - year - old irish - israeli woman . I have search this city long and hard for a book of condolence for she , but unfortunately none be to be find in the irish embassy or anywhere else , so I want to put her name on record so that she too be immortalise and remember forever . I know that Kim ' s family will be grateful to my hon . friend for what he say , and I know that the whole House ' s thought will be with they at this unspeakably difficult time . Hamas have not just abduct civilian but refuse to release proof of life or list , which be clearly add even more to the distress . will my right hon . friend outline the step he be take to ensure that the Red Cross do everything possible to extract that information from this terror group ? one of the thing we have be discuss with our regional partner , include the Qataris , be how good to ensure humanitarian access to those hostage and to get well information on their wellbeing . that be something we will continue to press on . the killing on 7 October be appal and have to be totally condemn , as everyone have today . however , the loss of 5 , 000 palestinian life in Gaza be continue and get bad . the question be : why do the Prime Minister instruct Britain ' s representative to the UN not to support the call for a very minimal thing , which be a humanitarian pause to allow aid to go in and a ceasefire to take place , to start to bring about a process of peace ? ultimately , that be the only way forward . ultimately , the only way forward be the end of the occupation . ultimately , the only way forward be recognition of the right of the people of Palestine . our regional and diplomatic engagement have focus extensively on how we can bring about a well and bright future for the people of Palestine and the Palestinians , but I be surprised the right hon . Gentleman have make no reference to the fact that an organisation he once describe as a friend have perpetrate an absolutely appalling act of terrorism against more than 1 , 000 people . early this afternoon , the all - party parliamentary group for Israel , which I co - chair , hear from victim , the family of victim and the family of hostage hold in Gaza . their one ask , above all else , be of course for hostage to be return home , safe and sound , but there be baby aged nine month and many elderly people who be totally dependent on medicine that they be not carry when they be take hostage . the Prime Minister have already mention the role of the International Red Cross . could he update the House on what be happen to enable the International Red Cross to gain access to the hostage and to supply they with the medicine they need to keep they alive ? I can tell my hon . friend that be exactly what we be try to do . we be also work with the Egyptian Red Crescent , which be engage on the ground . our priority be to provide food , water , medicine and fuel to those who need they . we will continue our extensive dialogue with partner to increase both the speed and the duration of aid , and to help to get aid to the people who need it . I think we can all agree that there be no place on our street for hateful extremism , so what do the Prime Minister have to say to the Metropolitan Police Commissioner , who say that , at the moment , law enforcement do not have the power they need to combat hateful extremism ? the Home Secretary meet the police chief this morning and , of course , we continue in dialogue with they . where there be gap in the law , we be happy to address and look at they , but we believe that at the moment the police do have the power to arrest those who incite violence or racial hatred . there be no place on our street for that type of behaviour , and we will work extensively to clarify the guidance to officer on the ground so they be fully aware of the power and tool available to they to make sure these people feel the force of the law . I thank the Prime Minister for his dignified strength and leadership in these challenging time . indeed , I also thank the Foreign Secretary for his leadership . there be a time for peace and a time for war . of course , this be a time of war for Israel . do the Prime Minister agree that , post conflict , we can not go back to the status quo and that there will need to be a comprehensive peace settlement for the region as a whole , involve many actor in the region , perhaps include some people we may not want to talk to today ? although Britain and the United States will be at the vanguard of that , it have to be a regional solution and a long - last solution , and the people of Gaza should never , ever be represent by an organisation that want to kill rather than save life . I thank my right hon . friend for his excellent contribution . he be absolutely right . the Foreign Secretary and I be have those conversation with people across the region as we speak . we can not go back to the status quo ante ; that be not right and it be unacceptable . that mean we have to work positively and with energy on a well future for the people of Gaza especially . that be a huge priority for we in the come day and week . fourteen hundred Israelis have be kill by Hamas attack , which I utterly condemn . over 4 , 700 Palestinians have be kill by the airstrike and , accord to save the Children , a child be die every 15 minute inside Gaza . last week , I ask the Prime Minister what step be be take to de - escalate the conflict so that it do not engulf the wide region . this be happen . can he say more about what he be do to support any other UN resolution that may help to de - escalate the conflict and create the humanitarian space that be desperately need to help civilian and bring some kind of end to this conflict ? the big risk on escalation come from Iran and its destabilising behaviour . we have see worry rocket attack from the Houthis over the past few day , but also increase rocket fire from Hezbollah . it be important that those be restrain . our engagement , particularly with arab leader , have focus on they put pressure on those who have influence in the region to de - escalate those tension . we have also send Navy asset to the region to help , and to make sure that arm shipment be not get to those nefarious actor . event in Israel and Gaza have a direct influence upon my constituent . in May 2021 , a convoy for Palestine drive through north London with loudspeaker advocate that people rape jewish girl and mother . on Saturday , as the Prime Minister say , " jihad " be call for on the street of London , and a London underground driver say the same over the tannoy . only yesterday , a long - term resident of my constituency have be identify as a Hamas operative . indeed , two further name have be draw to my attention . the Prime Minister say that action will be take , but it simply be not . my constituent do not expect the law to be enforce ; they demand it . may I thank my hon . friend for everything he do to champion particularly his jewish constituent and the community more broadly ? I can let he know that , at this point , I be aware of over 38 arrest that have be make by the police over the past week or two on this particular issue . on the other issue that my hon . Friend mention , the British Transport police be actively work with Transport for London to look into it . of course , that be an operational matter for the police , but the Government be clear that everyone should have the right to travel safely and without intimidation . I would also hope that the Mayor of London and other responsible for transport will take step to make sure that that be the case . in their joint policy statement , the Prime Minister , President Biden and other leader say that they have " commit to continue coordinate with partner in the region to ensure sustained and safe access to food , water , medical care , and other assistance require to meet humanitarian need . " fuel be not mention specifically . however , in his statement today — at page 4 , line 7 , in the advance copy — the Prime Minister do mention fuel . be secure the delivery of fuel a UK policy aim only , or be it the joint position of all the leader ? the UK be work hard to ensure that humanitarian aid get to the people who need it , and fuel be one of the thing that we be work on . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement today of an extra £ 20 million in humanitarian aid . last week , I meet a group of senior leader from my mosque in Bolton . at the very end , a note be pass to I that say , " can we stop just have word on the two - state solution and actually have some action ? " I welcome what the Prime Minister have say , and I recognise that we be in the acute moment of the conflict right now , but — look to the future — what idea , international collaboration and leadership will we put in to bring about a two - state solution ? where there be a vacuum , other will fill it . my hon . friend be right that we need to redouble our effort and inject fresh energy into demonstrate progress towards that well future . the most immediate thing we can do be ensure that there be a future in Gaza after Hamas that provide Palestinians with the opportunity to live with dignity and security . that be something that we be actively engage on with our international counterpart . Prime Minister , you state in your statement that you stand with the people of Palestine and recognise their suffering , but accord to NGOs on the ground in Gaza , 100 child be die every day due to israeli aerial bombardment . military solution be not go to end this conflict . only an immediate ceasefire will , so be you go to call for an immediate ceasefire — yes or no ? this House stand united in say that Israel have a right to defend itself . then it should stand unite with Israel ' s right to defend itself in line with international humanitarian law . after the appalling protest this weekend , will the Prime Minister endorse the October declaration , which so many member of this House and the other place have sign , and encourage all people across this country to stand up for british Jews ? I welcome the decision to double the aid in this situation , but will he reassure the House that not a single penny of it will fall into the hand of Hamas ? my hon . Friend obviously speak with experience on this issue . I assure he that the Development Minister be very seized of that particular question . historically , the vast bulk of our aid have be both humanitarian and channel through the UN , but we will of course make sure that it get to the people who need it and be not syphon off or hijack by Hamas . I hope the Prime Minister be right in his belief that these recent trauma could give fresh impetus to a process towards a two - state solution because , frankly , to many of we that seem far away than it have for decade . in that context , what be his understanding of the israeli Government ' s medium and long - term strategy , in the event of their ground operation in Gaza go ahead ? the israeli Government be obviously well place to speak for themselves , but they have a right to defend themselves . they have say very clearly that they want to protect their citizen . I think they do not just have a right to do that ; they have a duty to do that , to ensure that attack like this can not happen ever again . constituent of mine have be in touch to express how appalled they be at a report in the Times about how an individual with know link to Hamas be not only give UK citizenship , but give a council house and allow to buy it at a discount . will the Prime Minister investigate this case to ensure that nothing like it ever happen again ? the House and my right hon . friend will understand that I can not comment on any individual case , but the Metropolitan police have set out that they will always take appropriate action when provide with information about allege activity that may be link to terrorism perpetrate either abroad or here in the UK . we stand on the edge of the land invasion of Gaza , which will put at risk both palestinian life and the hostage ' life . what estimate have the Prime Minister make of the potential number of civilian casualty there will be if the land invasion go ahead ? on a constituency matter , four week ago the muslim woman ' s centre in my constituency suffer an arson attack , which be particularly distressing because the Holy Koran be burn in the room that be target . what assistance will be provide to the muslim centre that have be under attack in that way ? I can say to the right hon . Gentleman that we will not tolerate anti - muslim hatred in any form and will seek to stamp it out wherever it occur . in June , the Security Minister confirm that additional funding of around £ 24 . 5 million would be available to provide protective security at mosque and muslim faith school , and the deadline for the protective security scheme have be extend to cover more application . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend for his unstinting work in the region to bring about a positive influence . the release of two hostage on Friday evening offer the small of hope to many , many people for further release as time go on . in his statement on Friday , he specifically refer to Qatar and Israel . will he say a little more about the negotiation and the influence he be bring to bear , and the hope that we will see further hostage release as a result ? Qatar be an important ally to the UK . we have a wide - range bilateral relationship , and because of that it be helpful to discuss with the Emir of Qatar their effort — they be take a lead on this — to secure the release of hostage . I welcome and commend Qatar ' s leadership in help to secure the release of the first two hostage , but I know that the Emir and Qatar be focus on secure further release , and we will continue to work closely with they . I be disappoint that nowhere in this statement do the word " ceasefire " appear . of course , we absolutely and unreservedly condemn Hamas embed themselves within the civilian population , but that surely be a compelling reason for a ceasefire , because only by end the killing can progress towards a political solution take place . so why , even at this late stage , will the Prime Minister not join the grow number of voice call for an immediate ceasefire , before this catastrophic conflict engulfs the entire region ? I refer the hon . gentleman to what I say previously . Israel have the right to defend itself . it be face an appalling terrorist organisation , which have commit appalling act , and it have the right to ensure that those act stop and do not hurt its citizen again . I very much welcome the Prime Minister ' s work and leadership in engage with the arab world to try to find a solution to the difficult and challenging situation that we face in the middle east . this be not the first time that the terrorist organisation , Hamas , have carry out terrorist activity and kill innocent jewish people to derail the peace process . they do that in 2002 , when they kill innocent jewish people on the night of Passover , just before the arab peace initiative be about to be launch . that then derail the peace initiative for the region . I ask the Prime Minister this : from his meeting with arab leader , can he tell we whether they be still committed to the arab peace initiative on the 1967 border ? if that be the case , and give that we be previously commit to it , be we ? moreover , will he host an international summit on a two - state solution as President Clinton do at Camp David in 2000 ? one thing we must do collectively be re - energise progress towards a two - state solution . that have be the long - stand position of the UK and it remain so . in all the diplomatic engagement of both myself and the Foreign Secretary over the past few day , we have emphasise that with our arab partner in particular and discuss how we might demonstrate visible progress towards that goal . rise — order . this session must end at 5 o ' clock . patently , I be afraid , not all Members will be call . we will do the good that we can , but it would help colleague if question be short . with report that 50 dual citizen who be hostage may be release this evening , Walthamstow be grateful to the Prime Minister for all that he have do , and for the commitment that he have make to one family to help get their kidnap family member release . may I ask he about his commitment to other Walthamstow resident — some of the 200 UK national — who be stick in Gaza ? Rania and her child be terrified and confuse , because they have be to the border several time follow Foreign Office advice , only to find that it be closed . can the Prime Minister update we on whether any UK national have yet be rescue and whether there could be a single point of contact at the border for these family if they do make such a perilous journey ? I say to the hon . Lady that I know that it will be a frightening time for british national in Gaza and for their family . we continue to provide assistance to they , and they be in contact with the Foreign Office . we have not be able to secure the movement of any british national the other way across the Rafah crossing , but we have have discussion with the Egyptians , include the one that I have with President Sisi , to ensure that when the possibility be there , those people can cross . indeed , we have pre - positioned rapid deployment team from Border Force in Egypt , close to the border , to make sure that , logistically , we can collect those people and get they home as safely as possible when that happen . the new army of online middle east expert , the unverifie bot from nefarious source and the rise of sophisticated artificial intelligence risk seriously undermine the work that the UK and the international community be do to de - escalate the conflict . everybody share divisive and abusive message — include , sadly , people in this place — need to understand that they be serve only to raise the heat on the family of the people with love one in Israel and Gaza . will my right hon . friend confirm that the UK and Governments around the world be work to put pressure on the tech company to tighten up their control and ensure that we have prosecution here where necessary to provide the deterrence that we need ? I reassure my hon . friend , who raise an excellent point , that online offending be as serious as offline offending and that we have robust legislation in place to deal with threaten or abusive behaviour , or behaviour that be intend or likely to stir up hatred . that apply whether it take place offline or online , and we have work with the police to fund an online hate crime report portal and to ensure that they have all the tool they need to bring those who break the law to justice . the scale of violence that we have see in Palestine and Israel over the past few week have be horrific and the death of innocent people on both side be a tragedy . the Prime Minister be right that the violence do not end on 7 October , but it do not start then either . recent war break out in the region in 2008 , 2012 , 2014 , 2018 and 2021 . what be the Prime Minister do not only to address the immediate violence , but to bring about a long - last peace in the region ? we be work hard to make sure that we can provide the people of Palestine with a well future , because they have legitimate aspiration to live with measure of security and freedom , justice , opportunity and dignity . we will strive to build that future for they in all our dialogue with regional partner . on Saturday , Hen Mazzig tweet that a pro - palestinian protestor carry a black flag be " too similar to isis " . the Met police disagree , retweete he , and publicly say that it be not true . that cause a barrage of antisemitic and homophobic abuse on a scale that he have never see . I speak to Hen , and he say that after see the most horrific massacre of Jews since the holocaust he think that he be safe in London , and that british people always make he feel welcome , but now he be worried to leave his home . do the Prime Minister agree that that example be disgraceful ? the Met have a responsibility to protect jewish community at this most difficult time , and should be hold to account for allow that barrage of antisemitic abuse towards a member of the jewish community . I thank my hon . friend for all that she do to champion the jewish community . I meet most recently with Ministers , police chief and the Community Security Trust in Downing Street to discuss how we can well protect the british jewish community at this difficult time , as well as additional funding . I have be clear that there be zero tolerance in our country for antisemitism . what we have see recently be unacceptable and it should be meet with the full force of the law . Hamas ' s crime be not just what be once call " the banality of evil " ; it be the calculation of evil , which be why Hamas must be defeat . the Prime Minister be right that a humanitarian disaster be unfold in Gaza . that be why he be right to say that we need a constant stream of aid pour in . the UN Secretary - General be very clear that only a bind - on - all - side negotiate cessation of hostility will allow that aid to pour in as the Prime Minister say . be the UN Secretary - General wrong , and if he be not what will the Prime Minister do at the United Nations to bring about that bind - on - all - side negotiate ceasefire so that aid can flow and life can be save ? aid be already flow into Gaza as a result of the diplomatic effort of many , include the UK , and now we be provide far not just financial but logistical support to increase the supply of that aid . we will continue to do so . it be vital that we get it in , and we be work very closely , as I say , with the head of the UN ' s humanitarian agency , who be in constant contact with the Development Minister . two week ago , Hamas commit an unprecedented and heinous pogrom against jewish people — man , woman , baby and child . we all stand with our british jewish community , so Rotherham Council town hall fly the israeli flag in solidarity . however , within hour it be attack , the flag tear down and the flagpole break . Rotherham Council be refuse to re - fly the israeli flag . do the Prime Minister agree that we must stand up against those who wish to intimidate our jewish community , and re - fly the flag to show that we will always stand up against antisemitism and stand with our jewish community ? we have zero tolerance in the UK for antisemitism , and I thank my hon . friend for everything that he be do to champion his jewish constituent at this difficult time . I be clear that where people incite racial or religious hatred or their conduct be threaten , abusive or disorderly , or cause distress to other , the police can and should take action , and those who commit those crime should face the full force of the law . I be pleased to hear the Prime Minister talk of the need to get fuel into Gaza , but as the hon . member for Arfon ( Hywel Williams ) say , that be not reference in yesterday ' s joint statement , even though fuel be due to run out in the next few day and without it there will be no water , no function hospital , no bakery and so on . can I press the Prime Minister on a question that he have not be prepare to answer so far : do he consider the withholding of fuel to be in line with the Government of Israel ' s obligation to act within international law ? the Government of Israel will manage their behaviour in line with international law . our job be to ensure that we get aid into the region , and that be what we be focus on do . during his visit to regional partner in the middle east last week , do the Prime Minister get any sense of the extent to which any necessary israeli action in Gaza can and will be contain from wide involvement by malign actor ? it be important that this conflict do not escalate . that be why our Navy presence to stop illegal arm shipment to entity such as Hezbollah be important , as be the diplomatic engagement that we have have with leader across the region to ensure that those who would seek to exploit this already awful situation for their own further end be stop , and that they hear that message in no uncertain term from everybody . this weekend I go to Whitefield shul and attend a vigil in Manchester for the hostage . the community be scared at what we be see on the street . since Hamas ' s barbaric terrorist attack on Israel over two week ago , the Community Security Trust have report a more than 700 % rise in antisemitic hate incident , and tell MAMA have report a more than 500 % rise in Islamophobia over the same period . do the Prime Minister agree that there be no place in Britain for antisemitism or Islamophobia , and that those who proliferate this hatred and poison on british street will be meet with the full force of the law ? I have be clear that there be zero tolerance for antisemitism or indeed anti - muslim hatred in any form . we will seek to stamp it out wherever we see it . a great many constituent whose family find refuge here in the UK from the holocaust in Europe have reach out to I in the last few week to tell I about how they have be personally and directly affect by the ongoing attack from Hamas in Israel . they would like I to commend my right hon . friend for the work that he have be do with our ally to bring peace and stability , and they pose this question : what further effort can be make to ensure that , once the current threat from Hamas be address through Israel ' s action , the evidence be gather and the perpetrator be identify so that the due process of international law can bring they to justice ? it be important that people act in accordance with international law , that those procedure be follow and , indeed , that Israel take every precaution to avoid harm civilian . in the meantime , we will ensure that we get humanitarian support into the region . those effort be start to bear fruit , but we must double our effort . the horrific death toll of this crisis now include 1 , 800 palestinian child . More child will die while the bomb be drop . the aid need will not get through . the United Nations Secretary - General be call for a ceasefire ; so be the EU foreign policy chief and so be France , Spain , Japan and Brazil . we need more than just expression of regret about the loss of civilian life ; we need action to stop it . be it not time to back a ceasefire , bind on all side ? I think that be a mischaracterisation of some of what some of those country have say . I speak to the President of France last night and also leader from the US , Canada , Italy and Germany . we be unite in support Israel ' s right to self - defence , act in accordance with international law , and commit to get humanitarian aid into the region , as we be now do . I pay tribute to the statesmanlike action of my right hon . friend the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary on this terrible issue . at the weekend , shocking footage travel the world show flag of proscribe organisation on the street of London , with extremist proclaim Allah ' s curse on the Jews and other call for jihad . british Jews be increasingly feel unsafe in their own country . but what have make that bad be the apparent refusal of the Metropolitan police to do anything about it , other than stand to one side and then issue a self - justificatory tweet that , frankly , be an insult to the intelligence of anybody who read it . what step have my right hon . friend take to ensure that the leadership of the police will in future enforce a zero - tolerance policy for incitement and extremism on our street , for the good of all our people ? hateful extremism have no place in our society . call for jihad and muslim army to rise up be a threat not only to the jewish community but to our democratic value . of course , the police be operationally independent , but the Home Secretary have raise this with they . anyone who commit a crime — whether it be incite racial hatred , glorify terrorism or violate public order — should expect to face the full force of the law . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s commitment in his statement to challenging action that undermine the prospect for palestinian statehood . what be his assessment of the impact of continue illegal settlement building in the palestinian territory on the prospect for palestinian statehood ? our position on illegal settlement be of long standing and be in accordance with the UN Security Council resolution , which I know the right hon . Gentleman will be familiar with . may I start by sincerely thank member who have show I support over the last week ? it have be really meaningful . there be a narrative develop that I think we need to challenge . someone can stand for Israel and still care about what be happen in Gaza . someone can stand for Palestine and not support Hamas or the atrocity that they have commit . both can be true . it be an incredibly sensitive time both in our community and , as the Prime Minister will know , diplomatically . will he look again at the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill , which be come to the House on Wednesday and relate to this specific conflict ? whatever one may think of the content of the Bill , I hope that he agree that now be not the time . the Bill to which the hon . Lady refer deliver a manifesto commitment to ban public body from impose their own boycott , divestment or sanction campaign against foreign country . those could be divisive policy that undermine community cohesion . it be important that the UK have a consistent foreign policy and speak with one voice internationally . I have — not just now but for a very long time , since 2007 — condemn Hamas for their action , which have always lead to palestinian bloodshed in Gaza , and I will continue to do so . I condemn , of course , the action against the Israelis on 7 October — the slaughter of man , woman and child . however , I also want to look at the issue in Gaza . I want support for the people whom Hamas use as shield , and I want their right protect . I want aid and support for they , because they have just as much of a right to life as anyone else . I ask for a ceasefire in the interim to allow people to get the right amount of aid and to feel safe in their territory . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that Hamas be use innocent palestinian people as human shield , with tragic consequence . we mourn the loss of every innocent life , of civilian of every faith and nationality who have be kill . we support the palestinian people because they be victim of Hamas , too . that be why we be so focused on get aid into Gaza . as he can see , those effort be start to bear fruit . of course , there be far more that we need to do , but he have my assurance that we be work around the clock to bring that aid to the people who need it . the Prime Minister say early that aid be flow into Gaza . may I draw his attention to the fact that every single non - governmental organisation be say that the aid be only of a token amount ? what be he do to ensure that aid go to Gaza in the quantity that be need ? I just gently point out to the right hon . Lady that aid be go in , but I have also say that it be not enough and there need to be more . we be work incredibly hard to ensure that happen . that be a function of the financial support that we be provide , more than double our financial support to the region , as well as the logistical support , which be why the conversation that the Development Minister be have with the head of the UN ' s humanitarian agency be so important . the logistical effort require to bring about high volume of aid be considerable . the UK have specific expertise , capability and equipment that may be able to help with that , particularly at el - Arish airport , and we will work very hard not just to increase the supply of aid into Egypt , but to ensure that it can get to the people who need it across the crossing . we must all recognise the responsibility of global leader to ensure the protection of innocent palestinian civilian . to that end , may I ask the Prime Minister what step he be take to be certain that independent observer be able to monitor fully the ongoing situation in Gaza , to ensure that there be no collective punishment of the innocent and that international law be uphold at all time ? our overriding priority be to ensure that aid get to those who need it , which be why we be not just increase our financial contribution to the region , but intensify our diplomatic effort with all party to allow for safe access to aid for those people , and to make sure , as I say , that the logistical effort be put in place to ensure that aid can actually be deliver once it find its way to Egypt . none of those thing be easy , but we be make progress on all three , and we continue to be commit to all of those thing . I be confident that thing can keep get well over time , in term of both volume and scale . clearly , Israel be not go to have a ceasefire while it be still under attack , and it have every right to defend its citizen . however , the death in Palestine be increase , and international concern about that be grow . too few aid lorry be get into the country , hostage be be hold in Gaza , and we also need to ensure that we stop the death of innocent people in Gaza . be the use of safe zone or humanitarian zone part of a solution that would allow the aid to get in and the hostage to be get out , and would save more life ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . when it come to the release of hostage , those conversation be happen — as he can imagine — and we be diplomatically involve in apply as much pressure as we can for the unconditional and safe release of hostage . we see welcome progress with the first two hostage release , but there be clearly more to do . with regard to aid , again , we be have those conversation about ensure that aid can get across the Rafah crossing safely to those people who need it . that be why diplomatic engagement with all side be important , and we will continue our effort with the US and other ally in the region to make sure that happen . have the Prime Minister consider call on Israel to allow patient in a critical condition in Gaza to be medically evacuate for urgent care ? at this point , there be no people leave Gaza the other way across the Rafah crossing . that include the people whom the hon . Gentleman point to , but also british national . we continue to press for that , and will continue our diplomatic activity to ensure that those who need to come across can do so . as I say , we have pre - positioned Border Force operative in Egypt , with the logistical support to ensure that once british national do get across the Rafah crossing into Egypt , we be able to collect they and bring they home safely . however , there be still dialogue to be have to make sure that can happen . the spanish Prime Minister , Pedro S á nchez , have now call for a humanitarian ceasefire , alongside Leo Varadkar , the irish Taoiseach ; Humza Yousaf , the Scottish First Minister ; the UN Secretary - General ; and the EU ' s High Representative on Foreign Affairs . will the Prime Minister urgently consider a humanitarian ceasefire on the basis of not just aid , but give our diplomatic effort the chance to free those hostage ? those hostage should be free unconditionally — they should never have be take in the first place . we will continue our diplomatic effort to ensure not just their wellbeing but their safe release . that be why our conversation with the Qataris , among other , be so important , and evidence that that diplomacy be pay off have be demonstrate in the past few day . however , there be clearly considerable work to do , give how many more hostage be be hold against their will . these people be kidnap from Israel . they be innocent people . they should not be there , and they should be unconditionally release . I receive an email from a constituent the day after the horrific terrorist attack in Israel . she be worried about the safety of her brother and his friend , who be also both Vauxhall constituent . work with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , they thankfully make it to the border with Jordan , and be now back home . however , I recognise that this be not the case for so many people . so many people be still worried for their love one . the killing of innocent people at a music festival should shock we all , and the kidnapping of innocent child should be condemn . every night that I put my six - year - old and eight - year - old to bed , I think of those innocent child , kidnap without their parent . we should all call this out . Israel have the right to defend itself , and how Israel do so matter . the Prime Minister have touch on the humanitarian work that he have be do , which I welcome . however , have listen to member this afternoon , and give the volume of email I have receive from Vauxhall constituent , do he agree that a temporary humanitarian corridor will help get that urgent aid through to Gaza ? we be work on effort to get more humanitarian aid into Gaza . the crossing be now open , aid be be pre - position to el - Arish and neighbouring area , and we be intensify our conversation on logistical support as well as further financial support . I be pleased that the hon . Lady ' s constituent ' s family be able to exit — I assume via the west bank . just for member ’ information , we be also work on that side of the conflict to ensure we can support those british national who have register with the Foreign Office in their safe departure from the west bank , should they so choose . Border Force team and other be engage on that side of the conflict as well . rise — Order . I apologise to the House , but we be out of time . for those watch , I would like to place on record the fact that a significant number of member have not be able to be call , but the fact that that be so do not mean they be not interested . I thank they all very much for their patience . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . be it connect to the statement ? it be , Mr Deputy Speaker . early this afternoon the hon . member for Hendon ( Dr Offord ) mention some of the horrific chanting this weekend . he also mention that a London Underground tube driver have say the word " jihad " . to ensure clarity — at this really sensitive time , our word matter — should the hon . Member not come and correct what he have say , because it have be state that the London Underground staff member actually say " Free Palestine " , not " jihad " ? the hon . Lady be well aware that all hon . member be responsible for their own word in this place . if the hon . Gentleman feel that he have something that he wish to amend , he will do so , but that be not a matter for the Chair . storm Babet : Flooding Storm Babet have affect a number of community across the UK , with the bad impact be see in Scotland and the very sad loss of life in Scotland and England . I know only too well the devaste impact that flooding can have on individual and community . my thought and sympathy be with all those affect , and in particular with the friend and family of those who have tragically lose their life in recent day . I thank emergency responder , local authority , volunteer and the Environment Agency for their tireless effort to help community across the country . storm Babet bring persistent and heavy rain to the north and midland of England overnight on Thursday 19 October , and through Friday and Saturday . Met Office amber and yellow warning for rain and a yellow warning for wind be in place across large part of England . the range be so broad due to the storm be easterly — atypical in the UK — and eastern and south - eastern face slope take the brunt of the rainfall . this be far complicate by a band of high pressure over Scandinavia , which trap rainfall over the north of England and Scotland . as the Secretary of State set out in the House last week , an emergency response centre be set up . in advance of the storm , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Cabinet Office convene the national flood response centre to co - ordinate the response . Cross - Government meeting have take place daily since last Wednesday , and they will continue to do so this week . meet in advance of the storm enable the Environment Agency and local responder to increase the readiness of flood defence and the clearing of potential blockage , such as sluice gate and drain . Equipment be transfer from different part of the country to area that have be forecast to be most badly affect . over the weekend , severe flood warning be issue for part of the River Derwent in Derbyshire and the River Idle in Nottinghamshire . the bad area impact by the storm be in Suffolk , Derbyshire , Lincolnshire , Nottinghamshire and south Yorkshire , where major incident be declare . yesterday , I visit Bewdley on the River Severn , where I see at first hand how intense burst of local rainfall have lead to the Severn ' s tributary put more water into the main channel , lead to an exceptional 1 - metre rise in just two hour on Friday . when the water recede a few hour later , the EA be able to complete erect the demountable barrier to ensure that potentially floodable property be not flood at these incredible peak level . at its peak more than 300 flood warning be issue by the Environment Agency , and several severe flood warning . the Environment Agency flood line service experience its busy day since 2015 - 16 , with more than 1 , 800 call . as of this morning , we be aware of 1 , 258 property that have flood . there be also wide disruption to road and rail network , as well as flood on agricultural land that will have impact crop . the Environment Agency agree to request for early abstraction for some farmer , so that they could take water out of the system to store in their on - farm reservoir . I add my thank to those farming community , particularly in Suffolk , who respond so quickly to the need of their local community . on the impact in Scotland and Wales , the House will know that this be a devolved matter . although the storm have now pass , over the course of the week , rainfall will continue to flow into river network , and the overall flood risk for England and Wales be currently medium . significant river flooding impact remain probable in part of South Yorkshire , derbyshire and Nottinghamshire , and significant river flooding impact be also probable more widely . further rainfall be expect later this week but not on the same scale , and it be not expect to lead to further significant flooding . two major incident remain in place in South Yorkshire and Nottinghamshire , and both be move from response to recovery . I take my role as the flooding Minister extremely seriously , and I be aware of the devaste impact that flooding can have on local community . local flood authority will decide whether to initiate section 19 inquiry . I know that will happen in Horncastle and be be consider in other area . the Secretary of State visit site in Nottinghamshire today . before she leave she meet the chief executive of the Environment Agency on Saturday , and she meet I again this morning . my team and I have be in constant communication throughout this event with the Environment Agency and all concerned , and particularly with all member of Parliament from affected area . although unfortunately some property have be flood , we estimate that approximately 42 , 000 home in England have be protect that otherwise might have be flood during this incident . that include town such as Matlock , where the recently complete flood defence — basically a big wall — in the centre of the town on the River Derwent hold up well and protect the town . its Member of Parliament , my hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales ( Miss Dines ) , get in touch with I to share picture to show how that defence be work , and it have only just be complete . the Environment Agency consider that its asset and response have largely be effective . we should also consider more widely those area that have be protect due to flood defence that have be instal within the last decade . we invest £ 2 . 6 billion in flood defence between 2015 and 2021 , which have well protect 314 , 000 home all over England . we be currently deploy more flood scheme between 2021 and 2027 , with a record £ 5 . 2 billion of investment . that include both hard defence and natural flood defence . it include area such as Hull , for example , where a £ 42 million scheme be open in 2022 , which I visit . it be in the constituency of the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) . however , we know of some area where the asset be overwhelmed , not have be design for such rare , extreme level of rainfall . we will of course be review our response once the risk of flooding have pass . that will consider flood warning trigger and local mobilisation of asset . we should bear in mind that local resilience forum be the principal authority for decide and co - ordinating response , work off establish protocol and exist flood risk management plan . some of this flooding be due to surface water flooding , which be the primary responsibility of local authority . however , we work with local authority , and a third of our current funding be link to project for tackle surface water flooding across the country . the Government be also work to improve the local and national response to flooding , include improve surface water flood forecasting . we be invest £ 1 million in that , and through an Environment Agency , Met Office , and Flood Forecasting Centre project , we hope to come up with some valuable suggestion and action . finally , as local authority move to the recovery phase , the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be already in contact with affected council to assess impact as these community look to recover . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . our heart go out to all the family business and farmer affect by this tragedy , but especially to those affect by the tragic loss of life . I thank the emergency service and Environment Agency worker for their tireless work around the clock to keep people safe . More than 1 , 200 property have be flood , and hundred of people have be evacuate from their home . life have be lose . event such as Storm Babet be not unexpected , however . we know that flood happen every winter . the Minister ' s statement that asset have not be design " for such rare , extreme level of rainfall " show complacency . we know that climate change be bring more frequent and more severe rainfall event and , as I know from the terrible flood in 2007 , where 16 , 000 property be flood in Hull , flooding have a devastating impact on people ' s live , with their belonging lose and business destroy . the country must be well prepared , and we need to take our climate change goal seriously . it be therefore incredibly worry that the National Infrastructure Commission state last week that " there be no measurable long term national target to reduce flood risk … and the current target do not factor in risk increase due to climate change . " to make matter bad , one in six home in this country be at risk of flooding — a number that be only set to rise . accord to the Environment Agency , more than half of local planning authority survey rarely or never inspect new development to check flood risk planning condition have be carry out . research commission by insurer find that almost one third of home build in the five most flood - prone area be approve without a flood assessment . the Government be asleep at the wheel . why have they put home at risk of flooding by fail to ensure that local planning authority can carry out essential work ? as I tell the Minister last Thursday , an estimate 190 , 000 home across the country be under threat from inadequately maintain flood defence in 2020 . do the Minister know where these inadequately maintain flood defence be ? do any of they fail over the weekend ? do she have any plan to find out ? be any of the overwhelmed asset that she mention these inadequately maintain flood asset ? the Government have fail to get a grip on the challenge face our country over flooding , but these risk , as I keep say , will only increase . the independent review of flooding for London in 2021 note that the inability of organisation to share datum and co - ordinate emergency preparedness action have undermine the response to flooding . I note that the Minister refer to the DEFRA and Cabinet Office meeting two day before the flood be due , but that be not nearly enough . it be time that we end the Tory practice of wait for disaster to strike . while the Government want to pass off responsibility to other agency , a Labour Government would establish a Cobra - style flood preparedness taskforce to protect community from the danger of flooding . we will plan for the long term and co - ordinate central Government , local authority and emergency service to minimise the damage of flooding every single winter — importantly , before the flooding take place . that would ensure that community have the adequate drainage system and flood defence to protect themselves . it be time to turn the page on the Tories ' stick - plaster politic and make the long - term decision to protect community from the devastating impact of flooding . that be how we give Britain its future back . first , we be far from complacent ; quite the reverse . the hon . Member suggest that we need to be well prepared ; that be what our whole flood budget be gear up to do . that be why we double it to £ 5 . 2 billion . it be £ 2 . 6 billion , and it be now £ 5 . 2 billion , with all the associate flooding scheme that that be deliver — both hard infrastructure and a range of nature - base solution , which be a high proportion of many of our scheme . I would have think that she for one would have recognise that , give the £ 42 million invest in Hull — her own constituency . I visit the scheme in 2022 — I invite she but do not think that she come to the launch — and the people I meet could not have express more wholeheartedly what it have do for Hull and how it have protect property and business . it be now attract business to hull that previously would not have come as it be too risky for flooding . that be a prime demonstration of what the Government be do . on asset maintenance , we continue to invest in all our flood and coastal defence maintenance and have dedicate an extra £ 22 million to maintenance in the current review period of 2024 - 25 . of course , check asset and keep they well maintain be a critical part of the Environment Agency ' s work . virtually 94 % of major flood and coastal erosion risk management asset be in their target condition . in addition , when the warning begin a week ago , the Environment Agency and local authority go out to check asset , clear culvert and drain and do all the small thing that make such a big difference to whether there be or be not flood in our local area . on planning application , the Environment Agency give advice when there be any suggestion of flood risk , and 96 % of all planning application comply with Environment Agency advice on flood risk . it be important that there be strong safeguard in place where there be flood risk , and there be , but of course plan department have to decide whether to take note of the Environment Agency ' s advice . we be work hard with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on this very issue — I see the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) , in his place alongside I — as it be critical to protect our island . I would have think the hon . Lady would have welcome the Cabinet Office meeting . we already have exactly what she be ask for , as we do have a national flood response centre with the Cabinet Office , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and various Government Departments engage . that be set up on Wednesday , and the Met Office information and the warning that have begin feed into its meeting — that be why information be able to go out to people . if we can do more and keep more people safe , we will always do that . that be why we have take note of the incident . when it be safe to do so , we will review particular thing to see whether we can improve people ' s safety even more . I thank my hon . friend for her statement . the wide consequence of sudden torrential rainfall , which be happen much more frequently , be be clearly see in constituency and community such as mine . I be deal with the aftermath on Friday . there be two observation to draw . first , there be the need for long - term planning with regard to provide more retention pond and understand the flow of watercourse in local area such as mine . secondly , short - term culvert clearing and drain clearing operation clearly need to get well . will she meet I to discuss how we can well co - ordinate local authority and the Environment Agency , as well as the utility company , which also have a responsibility in this area ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for those astute observation . he be right about the more frequent incidence . this be link to climate change — there be no doubt about that . we be focus exactly on the whole flow of water through our plan for water , work at a catchment basis , which will be so important in future . it be local authority ’ role to keep culvert clean and all of that , so I will volunteer the Minister from DLUHC to meet he to discuss that important issue . my thought and those of my colleague be with all those who have lose love one as a result of the storm . we be also think about those who have lose pet or have be displace from their home or business as a result of water or wind damage during Storm Babet . I would like to thank the emergency responder and all those work in public service — whether SSE , the Scottish Environment Protection Agency , local council or the emergency service — who step up to protect and prevent risk to people , and to protect home and business wherever they could . the River South Esk in Brechin reach 4 . 4 metre above normal level . the flood defence there be design to cover 3 . 8 metre above normal level , so they be overwhelm by the extreme weather . the Scottish Government be commit to help community . our First Minister Humza Yousaf have be out in Brechin to speak to those affect . the UK Government hold the purse string , and it would be much easy for we to provide the right level of protection if they take financial action . when will the UK Government begin unlock the recovery and repair funding ? will the Minister please commit to deliver the consequential of that funding to Scotland as a matter of urgency ? I fully support the hon . Lady ' s thank to all those emergency service work in Scotland — interestingly , she name the coastguard ' s involvement in her area . to everyone involve , we give our heartfelt thank , and we give our sympathy to those who experience tragedy . as I point out , this area be devolve , so I can not comment on a lot of what she say . she know it be devolve , and I will leave it at that . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for take time on Saturday to discuss the dire situation develop across Erewash . More than 500 home and many business have now be flood , include home on Station Road and Station Street in Ilkeston , Rutland Grove , Regent Street and Westminster Avenue in Sandiacre , and the Nottingham Road area of Long Eaton . many resident yet again feel abandon by the authority , especially the Environment Agency . will my hon . friend take action to ensure that my constituent get the support they need , not only to deal with the clean - up operation but to mitigate future flooding ? with more heavy rain forecast , what be she do to ensure that homeowner be inform of flood risk at the early opportunity and not just by social medium , which often exclude the old and vulnerable population across Erewash ? I thank my hon . friend for all she do this weekend . she be straight on the phone , rightly represent her constituent . I believe that the water be now recede in Erewash . I give my sympathy to those who have be flood . a lot of the flooding be surface water flooding , so our new scheme to improve forecasting of surface water flooding will be a real help to constituency such as hers . DLUHC Ministers be work on what might be in place to help with the clear - up , and I will speak to they later , as will our Department . Flood Babet hit Chesterfield very hard on Friday , with the River Rother and the River Hipper burst their bank . tragically , 83 - year - old Maureen Gilbert of Tapton Terrace lose her life in her own home . her death have hit both her family and her neighbour very hard . on behalf of the whole House , I send our condolence to the family . as many as 400 home across Brampton , Birdholme , Riverside and Tapton Terrace have be flood , and countless business now face a fight for their survival . it be particularly hard to bear as the vast majority of those property be the same one that flood into 2007 , despite the Government implement scheme to protect the River Rother . why do resident on Tapton Terrace receive the phone call from the early warning system after their house have be flood ? what assessment have the Minister make of the success of the early warning system ? the financial cost face flood victim and the council be huge . can the Minister explain when the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities will confirm that resident qualify for financial support from the flood recovery framework , and that the council will be cover for the huge additional cost via the Bellwin scheme ? how quickly will the Government be in a position to announce that ? I reiterate our condolence to the family of Maureen . nothing could be more tragic , so huge sympathy go out to the family . I be in touch with the hon . gentleman over the weekend about the situation in Tapton Terrace . I feed that straight into the Environment Agency , which be work very closely with people up there to fully review what happen . that will be part of the review that we instigate . on the cost of clear - up , the Bellwin scheme be trigger by DLUHC , the recovery Department . as I say , we will be meet to discuss whether that be appropriate , when it would be appropriate and who might apply for it . on Friday , Rother Valley be hit by flooding . home in Laughton Common , Whiston , Brookhouse , Woodsetts and other place be flood , with more flooding in the area of Kiveton , Todwick , Treeton , Stone , Harthill and across the whole of Rother Valley . what be clear when I meet resident on Friday and Saturday be the concern that a lack of drainage and culvert cleaning have cause the flooding , as well as huge overdevelopment on the green belt , especially in area such as Whiston and Laughton Common . what guidance can the Minister give to council , such as Rotherham Council , to dissuade they from build over green space that be natural sink for water , and to encourage they to clean the culvert and drain more frequently , because it will lead to more and more flooding if they do not ? building and development have be consider , work with DLUHC , in our holistic plan for water . it be why we so urgently need sustainable urban drainage , for example , in our new development and to get that switch on . it be be review and hopefully that will start to happen , because it will make such a difference in trap and capture water , as do scheme such as grey water harvesting , semi - permeable driveway and so on . I urge plan department to consider they , because they will make such a difference in area such as my hon . friend ' s . flooding devastate community across Selby and Ainsty . resident be cause enormous anxiety and panic when event like Storm Babet occur . will the Minister outline what step she be take to work with the Environment Agency regionally in Yorkshire to ensure that town like Tadcaster be safe from flood in future ? I can give the hon . Gentleman an absolute assurance that we be work very closely with the regional Environment Agencies . in fact , they come to the fore in incident like this and we be in constant communication with they . they feed into plan for flood management and water resource . it should be a cohesive programme , work together . that be also why , as I mention early , work in catchment be so important . I be grateful to the Environment Agency for a call early update I on the situation in Derbyshire , which have be particularly badly affect by the flooding . we remain nervous about the impact of potential rainfall this evening , but generally we be move to the recovery phase . I place on record my thank to all the community and authority who have be so brilliant this weekend . however , there be obviously a great concern around the funding as we move into the recovery phase . we need to make sure that Derbyshire County Council , unlike in 2019 , be give the proper funding it need to get thing back to normal . when the Minister meet DLUHC later , will she make sure that she emphasise the need for the funding to be put in place quickly ? I hear what my hon . Friend say . that be why we will be work closely with DLUHC on what be possible to help local authority with the clear - up . derbyshire have be really badly hit , but it have also have £ 74 million of flood defence scheme , well protect 3 , 900 property . a great many property be protect that might otherwise have be flood . we also have to bear that in mind . the Minister may not be aware of this , but the BBC website have confirm in the last hour that there be now three confirm death in Scotland as a consequence of Storm Babet . each one be a tragedy , and I be sure that we all send sympathy and condolence to they and their family . the loss of life could have be so much bad , but for the willingness of other to put themselves in harm ' s way . in Shetland , the lerwick lifeboat be at sea for 18 hour in atrocious condition to save the life of those on the danish trawler Westbank , and the coastguard helicopter airlift 45 worker from the Stena Spey , an offshore drilling rig . do the Minister agree that they deserve our gratitude and commendation , and will she have a word with her colleague in the Department for Transport , who be currently propose that the response time for the Shetland coastguard helicopter be increase from 15 minute to 60 ? of course I send condolence for all three of those death — any death be absolutely tragic — and I commend the lifeboat team who do such spectacular work in rescue the trawler and those who rescue the people on the oil rig . this be a tremendous story and accolade for they . I be not sure that I be the one who can trigger the commendation , but I be sure that the right hon . Gentleman ' s suggestion will be feed in , and I will certainly pass his other comment to the Department for Transport . one of the victim be apparently from Far Forest , which use to be in my constituency , and obviously our thought and prayer be with the family at this moment . this be go to happen again . on the ground , the Environment Agency worker do a great job . be it not time to merge the agency with Natural England , so that there be few manager and more people to protect we ? again , I send my condolence follow that very sad case in Far Forest . I be in the area on Sunday , so I hear a great deal about it from the local people . my hon . friend have make an interesting proposal . I think we should deal with the immediate issue first , but on the ground those in the Environment Agency have do a tremendous job in almost every case , particularly those whom I meet in Bewdley . I must also give some praise to the community officer who meet so many worried and upset people on the street , and also meet with some aggression . they have do a tremendous job in all the part of the country where they be send out . over the last six year , Northwich , in my constituency , have be flood twice . this time round , have learn from the section 19 report , the Environment Agency , Cheshire West and Chester Council , the Canal & River Trust , the emergency service and other local council do a sterling job to prevent it from happen again . my concern for the future , however , relate to the huge cut in the trust , amount to £ 300 million . I issue this plea to the Minister : will she look at that and think again ? I be pleased to hear that all those organisation do such a grand job locally . we understand the huge benefit bring by the Canal & River Trust and the great work that it do , but that £ 300 million figure be something of a bone of contention . the trust have adjust the figure for inflation , and the Government do not normally do that with their fund . I thank the Secretary of State for her visit to Retford and Ordsall today to meet some of the hundred of people who be evacuate , such as those in Darrel Road , and to see the devastation at first hand . for many of those resident , it be not the first time that this have happen . I also thank the Minister for her reassurance that we will provide as much support as possible , and will invest in the appropriate flood defence to make sure that we can mitigate the impact . do she agree , however , that we need to remind council of their responsibility to communicate information effectively to our constituent ? in my case , one of the emergency respite centre be close with only 20 minute ' notice , and one of the emergency phone line be down for nearly two day . can we also please ask council to stop build on floodplain ? I know that the Secretary of State visit my hon . friend ' s constituency today and will have see for herself exactly what local people be face . I know that my hon . friend have rightly be a great champion for they , and he make a good point about the role of local authority in the local flood forum . it be important that everybody play their part in this , not just the emergency service who come in if there be a problem . it be about the messaging early on , and that be why the Environment Agency have a comprehensive system of warning that people can sign up to . some 1 . 6 million people be sign up to its flood warning scheme and I would urge people to ensure that they know how to join it . I also urge local authority to play the role that they really should be play , and I will be talk to the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to stress that far . follow the storm at the weekend , several area in my constituency be affect . there be still active flood alert across Cheshire , so many area be not out of the wood yet . on Saturday morning , I visit a number of my constituent live in close proximity to Finchett ' s Gutter who express serious concern over the timing of the flood alert receive over the weekend . some of they be already stand knee - deep in water by the time the alert come through . I join Members across the House in ask the Minister again what discussion have be have to ensure that as the rainfall continue , alert be send out in a timely fashion to give resident plenty of warning . of course it be critical that warning go out appropriately at the right time , and that be why this incident start to be flag the previous weekend and why the national flood response centre be set up . there be a comprehensive Environment Agency flood warning service and I advise people to sign up to it , as well as check whether they be in an area that might be at risk of flooding . one of the issue be awareness . the EA run a lot of comms programme on this , but if there be more that should be do , I will look at that in the review . when Storm Arwen hit Cumbria two year ago , many of our village and other community lose electrical power for several day due to damage power cable . I know that that have happen to many community over the last few day . what progress have the Government make since 2021 to make Britain ' s power infrastructure more resilient — for example , by create a national bank of mobile generator to ensure that community be not leave cold , dark and vulnerable for day on end ? have the people hit by Storm Babet benefit from lesson learn from Storm Arwen , or be we no far forward ? I would like to assure the hon . Gentleman that DEFRA have be work closely with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , which have a strategy for exactly this issue , because it be critical that power outage be consider when emergency such as this take place . effective action be take over the Rolls - Royce plant in the Derbyshire area ; that be a very effective alignment with the Energy Department . just as an aside , we work closely with the water industry on preparedness , should there be electricity outage , some of which might be link to flooding . in fact , there be another incident near Derby and it have a clear management plan . my heart go out to all the community affect , and particularly to those who lose their life . the image on the news of the devastation of the flood will also have an impact on community who have be flood previously and have escape . many people in Prestolee on the River Irwell in my constituency will be among those watch with great anxiety . I have raise this issue several time in the Chamber and with the Minister . can she assure I that every house in every community that have face repeat flooding this week and in previous year , include Prestolee , will get the funding they need to be able to protect their life , livelihood and property ? the hon . Lady and I have meet and discuss her issue a number of time . I will just flag that we launch the frequently flood fund of £ 100 million , which allocate fund to 53 project . the area that put forward viable project for the funding be find it very effective , and another round will open shortly . insurance be also really important for house where there be a possibility of flooding , and Flood Re work intensively on that . the process have be tweak to ensure that as many house as possible can get into it and a huge number of property have be help . those that have difficulty can go to the inventory that have just be set up , and 13 , 000 people who have slightly more difficult case have be help through that . the Association of British Insurers have work closely to ensure that all people be be cater for . there be also an extra " build back well " £ 10 , 000 to build one ' s property back well . many of my constituent in Dundee and Angus be hit very hard by the storm , and I wish to add my thank to all the emergency service and other , particularly at Dundee City Council and Angus Council , who do so much to help . it be absolutely tragic to see car submerge , home flood , business close , bridge wash away and , of course , life lose . give that we be see more , and more frequent , extreme weather event , and give that the Minister recognise climate change in her statement , do she not now regret the Prime Minister ' s recent statement roll back many of the measure necessary to tackle climate change quickly ? contrary to what the right hon . Gentleman propose , we take this matter extremely seriously . that be why we have double the flooding budget to £ 5 . 2 billion , as we be aware of these extreme weather incident . it be also why we have open a range of other fund , such as the £ 200 million flood and coastal resilience innovation programme , to look at how we can accelerate flood protection in area where it will be tricky as sea level rise , and so on . another £ 8 million project in the Thames estuary , the Humber estuary , the severn estuary and Yorkshire be look at pathway to deal with exactly these thing . my heart go out to everyone affect by flooding , particularly in Barnsley , Darfield , Wombwell , Worsbrough , Lundwood and Darton . the response to flooding be obviously fragment by its nature because there be so many agency involve , from the emergency service to the local authority , the Environment Agency , the water company and national Government . I mention in particular Worsbrough Bridge Athletic football club , which have suffer flood five year in a row . because it be not a home or a business , it often struggle to get support . what advice and , more importantly , action can the Government give to community group such as Worsbrough Bridge Athletic football club that be affect by persistent flooding ? individual business can seek insurance . there be insurance out there , which I urge Worsbrough Bridge Athletic football club to seek . there be many other measure , include our natural flood management scheme , which be look at much wide way of encourage flood protection . we have just launch a new £ 25 million fund on that , and there be also our frequently flood allowance . there be fund out there , but the hon . Lady ' s local authority could also do a lot to come up with the correct plan for its area . I thank the Minister for her statement , but she make a significant omission in relation to the impact on the railway network , which have implication for funding and the response in Scotland , because the network be not devolve . follow August 2020 ' s fatal derailment at Carmont , near Stonehaven , in which three people lose their life , Network Rail give a commitment to the National Union of Rail , Maritime and Transport Workers that it would put in place additional resource to address the drainage maintenance failure that be responsible , but the RMT ' s Gordon Martin have claim that Network Rail ' s modernise maintenance project have less to do with improvement and everything to do with cut . as the Minister be responsible for flooding and its impact , will she raise this with her counterpart in the Department for Transport to ensure that Network Rail ' s failing do not again lead to death and injury , as they do in August 2020 ? I will certainly pass on those comment to the Department for Transport . I thank the Minister very much for her statement and for her enthusiasm when it come to improve and do well , which I think we all welcome . do she accept that this storm and other like it have adversely affect coastal erosion around the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , especially in area such as the Ards peninsula in my Strangford constituency ? have she have any discussion with the Cabinet about create a dedicated fund to build up defence in coastal community against the batter wind and wave that be literally beat away our coastline and impairing road and rail safety ? the hon . Gentleman mention the particular challenge that coastal area face . we have launch a £ 200 million flood and coastal innovation programme to look at those issue in particular . I urge he to suggest that his own Cabinet look at some similar project . we be happy to share the detail . my sympathy be with all those affect by these terrible flood . thousand of resident of reading , Caversham and Woodley in my constituency live in area that could be affect by catastrophic flooding , yet plan to build flood defence next to the River Thames in Reading have be delay . will the Minister write to I urgently with an update on this important issue , to reassure local resident and business ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , the water resource management plan be under discussion right now . protection , reservoir and water supply will all be discuss within those plan . I can not comment on what will be in the plan yet , but I be sure that he have feed into they . I urge he to continue to do so , because keep people safe along this great river be of the utmost importance . vast area of my constituency be once again under water , despite Storm Babet not be the most serious that we have experience in recent time . although my resident be largely dry this time around , they be often cut off for week when floodwater rise , and many of they be old and vulnerable . what conversation have the Minister have with her colleague in DLUHC about protect people who be cut off from basic service for such long period when floodwater rise ? I have have a great many discussion with DLUHC about these issue ; we also work closely with the Environment Agency , as the hon . Lady will know . the local resilience forum will be factor in area at potential risk of be cut off , so that they have emergency system in place . I have be right up the river into the hon . Lady ' s constituency to look at these issue . I know how closely the Environment Agency be work on those plan , and how mindful it be of get the right warning system in place for any such area . that be why our nature - base solution funding , our frequently flood allowance and our £ 5 . 2 billion fund be so important . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . thank you for this opportunity to raise a point of order about a serious incident affect my hon . friend the Member for Bedford ( Mohammad Yasin ) on a Select Committee visit to Canada last week . on check in for their flight at Heathrow , all Committee member get through except my hon . friend , who be delay for question for a considerable period . he be tell that this be because his name be Mohammad . he be ask whether he be carry a knife or other offensive weapon ; he be also ask where he be bear . the questioning be undertake by official from Air Canada and , we believe , the Canadian Government , despite my hon . friend have already be give a visa to enter Canada . after prove that he be an MP , with help from our Committee Clerk , he be eventually allow through . at Montreal airport , the same issue be raise by canadian immigration . at Toronto airport on the way back , my hon . friend be again challenge . he get on his flight with assistance from our consul general , who be very helpful . my hon . friend have receive apology from the parliamentary Secretary to the Canadian Minister for Immigration and from Air Canada . however , give the racist and Islamophobic nature of these challenge , I believe that as well as write to the canadian high commissioner , which I will do , it be important to put these concern on the parliamentary record . it be completely unacceptable for a Member of this House to be treat in this way . because he be an MP , my hon . friend be allow on his flight ; if , however , one of our constituent have be so challenge , they might have be refuse . we raise the issue with our high commissioner in Ottawa , who be very supportive . she be amazed at what have happen , give the multicultural nature of Canada as an open and welcome country . she have raise the matter with the Canadian Government and appreciate that I be raise it in Parliament , to try to ensure that no one be treat in this way in future . I look forward to any help that you can give in this matter , Mr Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . member for his point of order and for give I advance notice of it . I be sure that the whole House share his dismay at the treatment of the hon . member for Bedford ( Mohammad Yasin ) . it be wholly unacceptable under any circumstance , but it be particularly concern when it occur , as it do , in the course of official travel on parliamentary business . the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) be absolutely right to put his concern on the record . I be sure that Ministers on the Treasury Bench will also have note his comment . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . today , after I have ask for a statement from the Paymaster General on the recently announce delay to the infected blood inquiry ' s final report , a short , 193 - word statement have be lay by the Government . that number be in stark contrast to the 485 people who be estimate to have die since the inquiry start , with one person die every four day on average . the short statement fail to deal with the final recommendation make already by Sir Brian Langstaff for make interim payment , for which there be now an even strong case because of the delay to his final report . there be no detail on progress to establish a compensation scheme , as have also already be recommend by Sir Brian Langstaff , and no explanation of why contaminate blood victim be be treat differently from victim of the Horizon scandal , who be already go to receive £ 600 , 000 in compensation before that final report be produce . what more can I do , Mr Deputy Speaker , to get the Government to deal with this matter in a timely way , and to ensure that as much information as possible be disclose and that these people be show some compassion ? I appreciate the right hon . Lady ' s concern , but she in turn will understand that that be not a matter for the Chair ; it be a matter for the Government . however , as before , I be sure that her remark will have be hear by those on the Government Front Bench . renter ( Reform ) Bill second read [ relevant document : Fifth Report of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , reform the private Rented Sector , HC 624 and the Government response , HC 1935 ; oral evidence take before the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee on 10 July 2023 , on Follow - up : private rented sector report and the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , HC 1481 ; correspondence between the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee and the Minister of State for Housing and Planning , on the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , report to the House on 28 July 2023 and 11 September 2023 ; correspondence from Shelter to the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , on the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , report to the House on 11 September 2023 ; correspondence from the National Residential Landlords Association to the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , on oral evidence give on 10 July 2023 , report to the House on 28 July 2023 ; correspondence from the All Party Parliamentary Group on Students to the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , on meet on 5 May 2023 on Renters ( Reform ) Bill , report to the House on 28 July 2023 ; correspondence between the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee and the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , on the Renters ( Reform ) Bill and the private rented sector , report to the House on 26 May 2023 , 5 June 2023 , 12 June 2023 and 10 July 2023 ; correspondence from the British Property Federation to the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , on the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , report to the House on 12 June 2023 ; and , Correspondence from the Minister of State for Housing and Planning to the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , on the Government response to the Committee ' s report on reform the private Rented Sector , report to the House on 17 April 2023 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . before I get into the detail of what the Bill allow for and the reform that it portend , may I say a few word of thank ? in particular , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Walsall North ( Eddie Hughes ) . during his time at the Department , he be responsible for the White Paper that essentially do the groundwork for the Bill , but prior to work in the Department , he work for a variety of third sector and voluntary organisation , help the homeless and stand up for those in poor - quality housing . his foreword to the recent report by the Centre for Social Justice on the importance of reform in the private rent sector be both eloquent and effective . may I take this opportunity to thank he for his excellent work ? I also thank the Centre for Social Justice , which be found by my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) some time ago . the report that it have prepare make a compelling case for reform in the private rented sector , in order to help those most in need . may I also thank those organisation , include Shelter and the National Residential Landlords Association , that have support I and the Department in frame this legislation ? may I also thank the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee and its Chair , the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , for the recommendation in its report on the need to reform the private rent sector ? there be a series of recommendation in the report , upon which we have act . it be the case that we will bring forward change to ensure that the student market , which operate differently from other aspect of the private rented sector , be regulate in a different way ; it be the case that we will bring forward detail of a decent home standard in the private rented sector , as request by the Select Committee ; and it be the case that we will ensure that the justice system , which be control by the Ministry of Justice and his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service , be fit for purpose before we move ahead with some of the reform in the Bill . may I add my thank to my right hon . friend for finally publish a response to the Select Committee ? he will recall that , as Chair of the Liaison Committee , I write to he last week — he respond very promptly , for which I be grateful . however , the Government ' s response be publish only on Friday , more than six month after the Committee publish its original report , yet it be de rigueur in the civil service code that response should be publish within two month . will he explain to the House why it take so long , can he give an assurance that it will not happen again , and will he say what measure be be take to ensure that such delay will not recur ? my hon . friend make an important point , which give I an opportunity to apologise to the House , on behalf of the Government , my Department and in particular myself , for the delay in respond to a number of Select Committee report that have be put forward . the Chairman of the Select Committee know that I hold he and his Committee in the high regard . I deeply regret the delay in respond to the many excellent report that the Select Committee have put forward . the reason for that relate to policy discussion within Government . we want to make sure that we have a clear and settle position in response , but that do not excuse we of the need to do well . I have discuss with Ministers and other in the Department the vital importance of respond quickly and show respect for this House , so may I again apologise to my hon . friend and to the Chairman of the Select Committee ? the delay have cost hundred of family in my constituency their home . section 21 eviction have be carry out on so many family , as the sector have move into the Airbnb short - term let market . will the Secretary of State apologise to those family ? will he also very quickly bring in the change of use designation that I know he be consider , to ensure that short - term let and also second home be separate category of planning use , so that we can protect our lake and dale community and ensure that they can survive ? as the hon . Gentleman know , I have an enormous amount of respect for the work that he do in this area . I would draw a distinction between the response to the Select Committee ' s report and the bring forward of legislation , but he be absolutely right to draw attention to the fact that we need to consider — and we be — our response to the consultation on registration and on change to planning use requirement in the short - term let market . we hope to come forward shortly with our response to those consultation . I should also say that I have the opportunity last week to talk to the founder of Airbnb , and I outline concern very similar to those that the hon . Gentleman have outline . rise — rise — I will not give way at this stage ; I will make a wee bit of progress , then I hope to give way shortly . I want to emphasise that a healthy private rent sector be in all our interest . make sure that both landlord and tenant have a new deal and a fair deal be critical . will the Secretary of State give way ? not for the moment . the private rented sector have double in size since 2004 , to the point where it now constitute between 19 % and 20 % of the total housing stock in our country . give the number of people in the private rented sector , it be absolutely vital that we ensure that tenant have the right that they deserve , while also recognise the importance of the private rental sector to our economy and the fact that the overwhelming number of private landlord provide an excellent service . it be also important that we provide they with the right to redress require when deal with antisocial tenant , tenant in arrear or other factor that may mean that they need to have recourse to secure vacant possession of a property . the private rental sector be vital for reason of labour mobility and personal convenience and , overall , because of the different way that we respond to the labour market and other pressure at different point in all our life . we need a healthy private rent sector . I would like to place on the record my thank to Ben Beadle and the National Residential Landlords Association for the work they have consistently do to ensure that the voice of landlord be hear and to ensure , as Ben Beadle have make clear , that landlord , the overwhelming majority of whom provide a good service , can be certain — because of our property portal , the ombudsman and the other change in the Bill — that the small minority of poor landlord who victimise tenant can be drive out of the system and the good name of those in the private rent sector uphold . rise — I be very happy to give way to the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) , then to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , then to the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) and then to the hon . member for Enfield North ( Feryal Clark ) . there be plenty to welcome in this Bill , but it should have be an opportunity to increase minimum energy efficiency standard . when the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero last week try to defend the scrapping of energy efficiency standard for the prs , she essentially say , on the Floor of the House , that it be because they could cost property owner up to £ 15 , 000 . the right hon . Gentleman will know that the regulation include a £ 10 , 000 cap , so the cost can not possibly be £ 15 , 000 ; indeed , accord to the Government ' s own assessment , the average cost of upgrade home to an energy performance certificate rating of C would be less than £ 5 , 000 . will he please correct the record , apologise on behalf of his colleague , who have mislead the House , and put it on the record that it could not possibly cost £ 15 , 000 ? his own assessment suggest that it cost less than £ 5 , 000 . I be grateful to the hon . Lady ; no one could doubt her sincerity or her commitment to make sure that we improve the condition of home and that we deal with energy efficiency . the first thing to say be that the cost will be determine in the market . the amount that an individual might have to pay can be cap by legislation , but the cost be a function of the market . the second thing that it be important to stress be that the decent home standard , and indeed the work we be do on retrofit overall , will improve , and have improve , energy efficiency , but we need to balance the improvement of energy efficiency against the cost that individual landlord and tenant face in a cost - of - living time that be challenging . rise — rise — I be happy to give way to the hon . member for Strangford . the Minister be right to say that the encouragement of private landlord be important to ensure that rental property be available , but it be also incredibly important that unscrupulous landlord be not facilitate in avoid their obligation . in relation to the obligation , Citizens Advice have recently announce some figure , which show that 48 % of evicted tenant have be tell that their landlord want to sell . this be a common reason for end a tenancy . with respect , nothing in this legislation suggest that landlord must give evidence that they have follow through on their intention to sell . will the Minister rectify that ? of course , landlord and any property owner must have the right to sell their home if they need or wish to do so ; nothing should interfere with that . none the less , it be the case that there may be circumstance in which there will be some landlord who use an attempt to sell , or a claim to sell , as a feint in order to evict a tenant . in Committee , we will explain how we will ensure that , in those circumstance , the situation be effectively deal with . I thank the Secretary of State for give way . this weekend I be out meet flood victim in Chesterfield . the flood damage of one of they be up to 3 foot high in their front room . they be tell by the landlord , who be busy as I arrive , hoover the carpet , which have sewage and river effluent all over it , that they must accept that the landlord would attempt to clean the carpet rather than a renter expect a new one and that if they would not tolerate that , she would end their tenancy and throw they out . do that not demonstrate how the balance of power between landlord and renter be totally skewed ? be there not all the more need for the strong possible legislation to ensure that we do take action against those rogue landlord ? I agree with the hon . gentleman up to a point , but I would not characterise it in quite that way . on the basis of everything that he have say , that be completely the wrong response from the landlord concern , but I would stress that there be only a minority of bad landlord and also that the law clearly delineate , and have do so for some time , the responsibility for repair between the tenant and the landlord . it be important that we always strike a balance between the need of landlord to ensure that their business be effective and the protection that tenant enjoy . if the hon . Gentleman write to I about that specific case , I will see what I can do to help . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for give way . my constituent , Esther and Fred , lose their son two week ago in the most horrific of circumstance . the very week that they lose their son they be serve a section 21 notice , despite the landlord know their circumstance . what message do it send to renter like Esther and Fred that the Government be yet again delay the abolition of section 21 eviction ? I be deeply sorry to hear about the personal tragedy that the hon . Lady ' s constituent have suffer — please do pass on my sympathy and condolence . I would say , though , that this Bill lead to the abolition of section 21 , and it do so in a way that I believe be right and proportionate . I will explain why I think it be necessary , but before do so I must give way to the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) . I thank the Secretary of State for give way . I note he say that , nationally , around 20 % of the population live in the private rent sector . in constituency such as mine , the figure be 30 % to 35 % , and many people feel very insecure in their life . for those on universal credit and housing benefit , the problem be that the local housing allowance do not meet their rent need . therefore , they be actually subsidise landlord through their benefit and live in desperate poverty as a result of it . in turn , this force people in mainly ex - council property to leave the borough , so we end up with a sort of social cleansing of our inner city all over the country . do the Secretary of State understand that we need rent control , so that those people who can not afford to remain in their own home get some comfort and be allow to continue be a valuable part of our local community ? although the right hon . Gentleman and I have have many disagreement , there be no one who doubt that he be a very assiduous constituency Member , and he be right that the pressure face by a number of people in the private rented sector be significant . the principal reason for those rental pressure be inflation . we can debate the cause of inflation , but this Government be determined to do everything possible to halve it . and I believe the step that we be take have show progress so far . rise — please forgive I ; I be just respond to the right hon . Gentleman . it be the case that our effective system of tribunal ensure that excessive rent that be way out of kilter with the market can be deal with . however , one of the challenge of rent control of the kind that I believe he be advocate , and that have be advocate by other on the Labour Front Bench , be that they be prove to reduce supply overall , and a reduction of supply on the scale that an intervention of the kind that he put forward would only increase rent and reduce the capacity of people to be able to live in the private rent sector . do my right hon . friend not agree that the Bill would do exactly what he have just be say be the problem with rent control , which be to drive private landlord out of the market ? be that not entirely contrary to the Government ' s main aim right now , which be to bring down inflation ? private rent be the key cause of core inflation , and this be a disastrous Bill for every renter in the country who want to see a well - supply housing market . I be very fond of my hon . friend , but that be just not true . we have see an increase in the number of home in the private rent sector recently , not a reduction . [ interruption . ] as we say in Scotland , " fact be chiel that winna ding . " there be no evidence at all that the abolition of section 21 , and at the same time the enhancement of section 8 , will lead to any reduction in the number of home in the private rent sector . however , let I say to he , and to the whole House , that what we need be not so much an arbitrage between the private rent sector and the number of home available for private ownership , or indeed the social rent sector , but more home overall . it be that which be at the root of our challenge , and we will solve it with our long - term plan for housing , which be outline in July of this year . rise — no , I have be generous so far . every intervention only take time from those who wish to contribute to the debate . let I develop my argument and then I will give way to some other colleague — but perhaps not all . I just wish to stress what the abolition of section 21 involve . get rid of section 21 mean that a weapon use by unscrupulous landlord can no long be in their hand . essentially , section 21 no - fault eviction be use by that small minority of bad landlord to intimidate tenant . it be the case that a significant number of tenant have concern about the quality of their home , or indeed about excessive rent rise , but section 21 have be use to silence those who have complain about the quality of their property , to intimidate they into accept excessive rent rise , and in certain circumstance it have be prosecute anyway , lead to a significant number of people — 20 , 000 in the past year — find themselves render homeless , and therefore the taxpayer and local authority have to pay for their accommodation . it be in nobody ' s interest to allow unscrupulous landlord to continue to behave in this way , to allow vulnerable people to be render voiceless in this way , and to force the taxpayer to pick up the bill . the idea that abolish section 21 be somehow un - Conservative be to I absolutely nonsensical . conservative exist to protect the vulnerable in society , to make sure that market work and to save the taxpayer money . I have to say to any hon . member who think that such a policy be un - Conservative that they should consider the conservative record . the artisan ’ dwelling Act 1875 , the Law of Property Act 1925 , the Leasehold Property ( Repairs ) Act 1938 , the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 , the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 — when Margaret Thatcher be Prime Minister — the Housing and Planning Act 2016 and the Tenant Fees Act 2019 be all conservative measure introduce by conservative Prime Ministers in order to ensure that the private rented sector could work well and , critically , they all make provision for the right of tenant . rise — I be more than happy to give way — order . I think that I be right in say that the hon . Lady have only just enter the Chamber . she should wait for a wee while before she rise to intervene . rise — I will give way to colleague in a moment . the key thing to consider when think about how those in the private rent sector live be that the overwhelming majority of landlord do a great job , but we know that , because of section 21 , 23 % of tenant in that sector who wish to complain about condition choose not to do so , and 31 % of those who do be subsequently evict under section 21 . as I mention , 20 , 000 people be assess as homeless as a direct result . I be absolutely committed — as be the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) when she be Prime Minister , as be the former Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip when he be Prime Minister , and as all Conservative Members be when we put it in our 2019 manifesto — to get rid of section 21 , but it be important to recognise that in so do we need to strengthen the provision that landlord have in order to deal with those tenant who , for whatever reason , need to be evict from their property . we be outline an extensive range of provision under section 8 . we be move to ensure that antisocial behaviour be deal with more effectively by make it mandatory ground for remove a tenant . we be lower the threshold so that it be easy to establish antisocial behaviour . we be deal more effectively with rent arrear , and the way in which some unscrupulous tenant have hitherto manipulate the system on rent arrear . we be make it clear that anyone who wish to occupy their property because they need to sell it , repair it , or have family member within it , or for any other reason , can do so . it be about strengthen both protection for tenant and power for landlord in the case where they need it . rise — I be now more than happy to give way to a range of colleague . order . I will allow the right hon . Gentleman to do that in just a moment , but first let I set the record straight . the Clerks have inform I that the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) be in the Chamber from the start . I apologise . I would not wish that to influence the decision of the Secretary of State on who he give way to . I accept entirely the force of what the Secretary of State have say , but clearly under section 8 many landlord will , for perfectly legitimate reason — to get rid of a tenant for antisocial behaviour or whatever — have recourse to section 21 simply because of the convenience and ease , particularly in the face of tenant who make particular difficulty . that be why the provision that he be make in respect of the court be able to deal with such thing effectively and efficiently be vital as part of the reform that he be bring forward . actually , I agree with my right hon . friend . it be vital that we ensure that the court system be reform and that we have end - to - end digitisation . we have see section 21 abuse , but if a determined tenant wish , for whatever reason , to ignore section 21 , that end up in the court anyway . my constituent Jan Childs rent a property in much Wenlock to an individual she get into a dispute with . he have now scarper , owe my constituent £ 10 , 000 , and nobody seem to be interested in help she to retrieve the money — neither the police nor the local authority . how will this Bill help my constituent Jan Childs to retrieve she £ 10 , 000 ? it be not so much this Bill ; it be more the step that we be take in order to improve the justice system that will help , but I would be grateful if my hon . friend would write to I about that particular situation . it be always the case , no matter how well frame any piece of legislation might be , that if we be deal with unscrupulous character who seek to evade justice , we have to rely on the agency of the criminal justice system to pursue they . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I apologise ; I should have refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests when I intervene . my right hon . friend be nearly always right and always honourable . I , too , put on the record my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . some month ago , I raise with the hon . member for Kensington ( Felicity Buchan ) , who be present , my concern about the illegal eviction law , which be over 40 year old , complex and difficult to understand . unless we reform illegal eviction law alongside section 21 , I worry that bad landlord will take matter into their own hand . have the Department take into account the concern that I raise with Government official about reform illegal eviction law at the same time ? I know that my colleague the Housing and Planning Minister have meet the hon . Lady , and we will respond in further detail about the step that we propose to take . give that the Secretary of State be get quite a few pot shot from behind he , let I help he out by say that I welcome the ban on section 21 no - fault eviction . it be sadly very overdue , and I hope that he will not delay in implement it , because as a London MP I have have countless people in my surgery and contact I via email who have be evict under section 21 . a most egregious case involve a father of two young child , both of whom be gravely ill . he have to tackle the mould in his home himself because the landlord be not deal with it . then the landlord evict he for make the repair . will the Secretary of State commit to implement the reform without delay ? absolutely . the soon the Bill be on the statute book , the soon we can proceed . alongside that , we of course need to ensure that the justice system , as my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) make clear , be in a position to implement it effectively . that be why the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , be present . he and I , and the Minister for Housing and Planning , be work to do just that . on the enhance ground for antisocial behaviour , I have one constituent who have be evict because their baby be cry too much , and another who have be evict because her husband be beat she too loudly . do the Secretary of State not recognise that the ground need to be discretionary one on which the court can deliberate , not mandatory one ? otherwise , it will be a handle for abuser to use . I very much take the hon . Gentleman ' s point . I do not believe that either of those two case would count as antisocial behaviour under our proposal , but we need to ensure that we be clear about what constitute antisocial behaviour liable to lead to eviction and what be , as in those case , either a preposterous claim or an example of domestic abuse that the police should be investigate . I , too , welcome the intention to scrap no - fault eviction . a year ago I ask about the matter at Prime Minister ' s question , say , " it ' s go to be winter . it ' s cold . " as 2019 be a long time ago , I welcome the proposal , although some detail be need on the burden of proof . under Thatcher , from my recollection , the Conservatives be the party of the family , so why have the blanket ban on unscrupulous landlord say , " no child , " vanish , as have the no - people - on - benefit stipulation ? a I know from my weekly surgery , landlord who say , " no dss " be the big barrier to unlock this part of the market , because pensioner and other be exclude . have the Conservatives do away with Thatcher , or be their tail be wag by all the people — apparently one in five Tory mps be a landlord — make declaration of interest ? first , we will be clear that landlord can not have blanket ban of the kind that the hon . Lady rightly draw to the House ' s attention . secondly , colleague will declare interest , but landlord be good thing . we need landlord to provide home . it be nothing to be ashamed of to be in the business of provide a safe , warm and decent home for someone , and there be nothing wrong with people who have save and work hard investing in property . you do not need to be Margaret Thatcher to believe that that be right . the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee raise the need for an effective and efficient court system to deal with such matter . eviction will now have to go to court because they will not be automatic under section 21 . also , many more tenant may go to court over landlord refuse to do repair , because they will no long fear retaliatory eviction . official in the Department have suggest that the delay in implement the Bill come about because of the need to reform the court , and that that be down to the Select Committee . as I be sure the Secretary of State be aware , the Select Committee actually recommend a specialist housing court — we do that several year ago . if the Secretary of State have agree to that at the time , there would no long be any need for delay . the court would be up and run , and be effective and efficient in deal with case in the future . I be grateful to the Chair of the Select Committee , but the view of the Ministry of Justice , his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service and other involve in the court system be that the creation of a specialist housing court would divert resource from the effort to make the exist system work well . but good people can disagree on that point . I rise as what be know as an " accidental landlord " , who conveniently own and rent out a property in Tamworth . speak as a landlord , I welcome the Bill — particularly the property portal , which will allow council to focus their resource well on landlord who provide poor - quality accommodation and give council the opportunity to drive they out of business . my hon . friend be absolutely right . two of the less conspicuous but important part of the Bill be the creation of the property portal and the role of the private rent sector ombudsman . if they work effectively , both should obviate the need for the court process that the Chair of the Select Committee and my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) have mention . the property portal should ensure that we can identify property in the private rent sector whose landlord have not register , and we can focus our enforcement action on they . I welcome well protection for renter ; in my constituency , swathe of constituent have be evict so that landlord can flip their property to become short - term holiday let . nationally , there may have be a growth in landlord number , but the Country Land and Business Association and the English housing survey both report that rural seat have see a demise in landlord number of about 24 % . in my constituency , we have lose 67 % of our long - term landlord since the end of the pandemic . what step will be take to reverse the trend , so that long - term landlord come back into constituency such as mine ? what I would like to see in my hon . friend ' s constituency and so many other be an increase in housing overall — house for social rent , for private rent and , above all , for people to own . as the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) point out , there be a particular challenge in the very attractive part of the country , such as those my hon . friend represent , that attract tourism . there have be a phenomenon whereby house that would have be available for rent to the local community have be Airbnb - ise , although not just through that company . they have be turn into short - term let and effectively be operate as shadow B & Bs or shadow hotel . there be nothing wrong — there be everything right — with make sure that we utilise property as efficiently as possible , but that have create percussive and deleterious consequence in some area . that be why we be consult on both use the planning system and also , with our colleague in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , a form of registration to ensure that the situation work . ultimately , however , the challenge be increase supply overall . the Secretary of State have just mention the private rental ombudsman , a post that I welcome . be he consider the case for give that job to the exist housing ombudsman , who support the social housing sector at the moment ? yes , we be . there be a case for both a separate organisation and for have the issue fall to the exist ombudsman — who , I have to say , have be do a very effective job . I must draw my remark to a close shortly so that all colleague who wish to contribute can , but the right hon . Gentleman ' s intervention provide I an opportunity to suggest that the condition of housing in this country — particularly housing build in the ' 50 , ' 60 and ' 70 — be a profound cause for concern . many of those home be reach the end of their natural life . as a result of how they be build , we be see not just build safety issue but child in particular living in home that be not decent . the tragedy of Awaab Ishak ' s death remind we that damp , mould and other poor housing condition can have a deleterious effect not just on life chance but on life themselves . that be why the Social Housing ( Regulation ) Act , the action of the housing ombudsman and the action that my Department have take have be focus on ensure that register provider and social landlord live up to their responsibility . what we seek to do in the Bill be ensure that the small minority of private sector landlord who also need to up their game do so . we be not target any one sector . we be not target register provider of social housing while leave the private rent sector off the hook ; nor be we direct particular attention to the private rent sector and let register social landlord off the hook . what we be do be ensure that citizen , who deserve a warm , decent , safe home , get one . that be what the establishment of the decent home standard through this legislation will do . the Bill would have be a good opportunity to bring forward provision ensure that home be keep at a decent standard . will the Secretary of State assure the House that he will bring forward measure before the next election that will address decent home standard for the private rent sector ? at the very beginning of my introduction to the Bill , I stress my gratitude to all those who have work to shape the measure and make recommendation on how we could improve it . I be sure that in Committee we will hear representation from different member and different organisation about how we can improve the Bill far . I be open - minded about that : my aim be to ensure that we get a new deal and a fair deal for both landlord and tenant . I have listen to representation from the National Residential Landlords Association and other about make sure that the overwhelming majority of landlord , who do a great job , be able to deal with a small minority of tenant who behave badly . I have also listen to representation from individual tenant and those campaign for they , who want we to move ahead with the abolition of section 21 and the establishment of the portal . the establishment of the portal and the existence of the ombudsman will , I believe , ensure that landlord be on firm ground and no long undercut by rogue , and that tenant get a well deal . it be because the Bill provide both landlord and tenant with strong protection for the future that I commend it to the House . it be a pleasure to open this debate on behalf of the Opposition . I start by say that we on these Benches will not oppose the Bill today — that may be more than can be say for some on the Benches behind the Secretary of State . after nearly five year of foot drag , it appear that they need to be appease with yet more delay . we disagree . renter be at the sharp edge of the current housing crisis and urgently need the protection and support in the Bill — protection that , unfortunately , be just too late for many renter struggle right now in this cost of living crisis . but as they say , well late than never . I welcome the Bill . in fact , I welcome much of what the Secretary of State say in his opening remark . we have be call for such measure for some year . we will be pleased to finally see the abolition of section 21 , whenever that actually come . labour also welcome the simplification of tenancy , which will give renter more flexibility and right . it be right that periodic tenancy should become the norm , mean that renter can give two month ' notice and get out of a tenancy at any point . we far welcome the creation of a new ombudsman ; that have the potential to be an essential part of the redress system . for too long , renter have lack basic power and control over one of the fundamental of life : their home . tenant have struggle to challenge unfair treatment without undergo lengthy and expensive court proceeding . if this ombudsman be give the proper tooth and resource , they will have an important role to play in level the play field . I think the Secretary of State agree . we be pleased that the Tory rebrand of Labour ' s propose landlord register have make it into the Bill , too . the register be good for landlord and tenant . finally , it be good to see the Government build in provision to make it easy for renter to have pet . as I be sure the Prime Minister agree , pet be an important part of the family , just as long as we remember not to let they off the lead illegally . after four and a half year of foot - dragging , there can be no more dither and delay in end no - fault eviction . the Secretary of State make strong point in his opening remark , but I be afraid that he do not see the face behind he — I can see why he have spend year argue with the landlord on his Back Benches . tenant across the country have be wrongfully evict , kick out of their home and make homeless . in fact , since his government first announce the end of no - fault eviction back in April 2019 , a total of 71 , 310 household have be kick out on to the street . that be more than 70 , 000 family put at risk of homelessness since this Government first propose to protect they . every single day another person suffer the same fate . accord to Shelter , private renter over the age of 55 be serve a section 21 eviction notice every 16 minute . it have take the Government four and a half year to reach the Second reading of the Bill . the Secretary of State be at pain to stress that the majority of landlord be good one . it be almost like say that there have be a delay to murder legislation because most people do not kill people . the reality be that we need legislation because there be some bad landlord , and the imbalance between renter and landlord be huge . do my right hon . friend agree that , although it be welcome that we have finally get to Second reading , many people have be let down by how long it have take ? it be now the responsibility of we all to get the legislation move as quickly as we can . I agree . I hope I can bring the House together when I say that it be right that we get move on this issue . the Secretary of State have make it clear that the Government will move on it , but I be concerned about potential delay . I will come to those point in more detail . there may well be consensus in the House — I hope there be ; we will see how it go later on . a major issue that come to my attention and that of many other be mould , condensation and damp in house , about which tenant tell I regularly . do the right hon . Lady feel that the Bill can satisfactorily address that to ensure the health and safety of tenant and their family ? we need legislation for decent home alongside these provision . I hope that we can get into that , and how we can protect people , in Committee . as the Secretary of State acknowledge , at the moment many family face a situation of inadequate housing , which go beyond the scope of the Bill . I think we all agree that that need to be address as soon as possible . on decent home standard , would the right hon . Lady support the integration of Awaab ' s law into the Bill ? we be talk about delay , but my concern be that if those provision do not make it into the Bill right now , our constituent , include some of mine in Brighton , will still be live in absolutely atrocious accommodation , with water stream down their wall , mould and kid get ill . if we can address that in the Bill , we should push for it , but we should also push to ensure that , whether in social housing or private rental , people should have confidence that their home be safe . home should be a safe place , but at the moment , that be not the case for too many . huge swathe of renter have be leave pay a heavy price for the Government ' s inaction on section 21 . this be real for people such as the Brady family , who live in Wiltshire and have experience two no - fault eviction in the past two year . Mr Brady be a gardener and Mrs Brady work full time . after be force out of their home , where they have live for 15 year , they have resort to live in their van . the family be able to bid on council house when they become available , but so far , everything have be at least an hour away from where they live . Mr Brady say : " there be a housing crisis and there be reason behind it — you can use whatever excuse you want but it be a political decision . it be a political decision not to build enough house , it be a political decision to sell off the social housing stock . " those be not my word but the word of a man who would still have a roof over his head if the Government have not drag their foot . I feel that more delay be inevitable . conservative Members threaten in the newspaper this weekend to choose their self - interest over the national interest by oppose or delay the Bill . they do not want to see these change enact . then , on Friday evening , the Department sneak out the suggestion that section 21 change be dependent on court improvement , which could take year to complete . today we discover — not from an announcement to the press , to Parliament or to the public , but from a leak — that that be indeed the core part of a grubby private deal that the Secretary of State have strike behind close door with his own Back Benchers . so the Government who break our justice system be now use their own failure as an excuse to break their own promise . just how long will it take ? can the Secretary of State promise that the Government will meet the pledge they make at the last general election , which he mention , before the next general election ? renter simply can not afford any more excuse or delay ; he must provide clarity on that . [ interruption . ] I know that he be a confident Secretary of State — he say so from a sedentary position — and I have confidence in his ability , but people who be face section 21 notice can not afford any more dither and delay . he will get support from those on the Labour Benches in enact this legislation to protect family who need protection . we think that the Bill be a good starting point . we fear that a number of loophole have be leave in it , however . one such loophole be the commencement clause , which leave Ministers the power to decide when — or , perhaps , whether — to actually bring an end to section 21 . but that be not the only loophole . I hope that the Minister will engage with we constructively in Committee to close all those loophole and strengthen the Bill in a range of area . for example , the new ground for and protection from eviction be a welcome step , but the detail on those ground remain vague . on eviction , there remain a loophole by which renter be protect only for the first six month of their tenancy if their landlord decide to sell the property or move back in . that time limit need to be increase as part of the Bill to give renter proper protection . on section 21 , it be not just a question of when the law be implement but of how . every household threaten with homelessness by a section 21 notice have the right to assistance from their local council to prevent they from become homeless , but the Bill remove that right to immediate help . that loophole could lead to a huge spike in homelessness and must be close . my right hon . friend be make an excellent speech . I be grateful to she for highlight that point ; I have come across such case , and it be an absolutely appalling situation . often young family be thrust out of their home with very little notice , and local authority struggle to cope . at the moment , many such case that I have come across involve people be move to B & Bs out of the area . I thank my hon . friend for highlight that concern . to be fair to the Secretary of State , he acknowledge the challenge in his remark — not just the housing challenge but all the challenge face by family . People be scared and live insecure live because of the devastation and ripple effect of the challenge they face . my right hon . friend be right to highlight the human cost of those eviction , but there be also a financial cost to council . Bristol City Council pay exorbitant amount to put people into emergency and temporary accommodation , which it should not have to do , so do she agree that , on top of help people by ensure that they do not have to go through the pain of eviction , the Government have a financial interest in resolve the issue ? I absolutely agree . I also think that , as the Secretary of State mention , most private landlord want to do the right thing and be a good part of our housing mix . they should therefore welcome the fact that we be do our good to ensure that their good name be uphold and that they be not stain by the tiny minority who do not do the right thing , who be the reason why these protection be so overdue . we be also concerned that the change to antisocial behaviour ground be , as they stand , ambiguous and open to abuse . mental health need and domestic abuse be sometimes report as antisocial behaviour , so that definition must be make more pragmatic and focus on genuine antisocial behaviour . the Secretary of State make reference to this issue , and I hear what he say ; I look forward to work with he in Committee to address it , because it be important . the Bill be also silent on the issue of economic eviction . while it strengthen the law to ensure landlord can only increase rent once a year , which be welcome , the mechanism for tenant to contest excessive rent hike be not strong enough , give people little real protection against so - call economic eviction . be there not a particular problem with the evidence that the rent tribunal will look at ? the proposal be that they will look at the average market rent , but the local housing allowance be set at only 30 % of the local average , mean that rent could increase above the LHA and no one would be able to complain about it . it be absolutely right that we get into these challenge , because I do not think people feel that the current situation provide redress for the challenge they face . I hope that in Committee , the Secretary of State will listen to point make by member across the House to ensure that people get the redress and support that they need , and that we strengthen tenant ' right in this area . the Bill do not really deal with the issue of affordability at all . one of the big issue be the freezing of the local housing allowance : some 90 % of property in the private rented sector be not affordable with the amount of LHA that be payable . the Select Committee recommend that we go back to the 30 % figure , as be previously the case , so could we push for that to happen ? currently , many people simply can not afford anything at all in the private rent sector . we have to get into that issue , but we also have to deal with the root cause , which be that we do not have enough adequate social housing in this country . we do not have enough housing , and that be because of 13 year of the Tories ' failure to build the housing that we need and to challenge member on their Back Benches . the Prime Minister have fail to challenge those on his Back Benches who have delay house building in this country when we need it so desperately . the Secretary of State mention the hon . member for Walsall North ( Eddie Hughes ) and the White Paper , but I be disappointed that many of the proposal in the Government ' s White Paper have since be drop . the Secretary of State say that he be open - minded , and I be glad about that , because the Bill be silent on proposal to make blanket ban on rent to family with child or those in receipt of benefit illegal . that sort of unacceptable practice must be stamp out , and I hope he will work with we to make sure the Bill do so . in the White Paper , the Government also promise to introduce the decent home standard to give renter safe , well - value home and remove the blight of poor - quality home in local community . that standard be miss from the Bill , but I do hear what the Secretary of State say in his opening remark . I gently say to he that we can not miss an opportunity to give private renter the protection — the long - term security and well right and condition — that they deserve . to ensure that tenant have that safety , do the right hon . Lady agree that we need a new regulator for all private rental with the power to subject landlord to regular inspection ? the Bill talk about the ombudsman . we need to make sure that landlord understand their obligation , and where they do not , we need to ensure that there be redress . as I mention early , that ombudsman must have real tooth , and I hope the Secretary of State understand that . while I respect the landlord who be in the Chamber and those who be listen to this debate — I know many of they do a good job and be try their good — we have to have a minimum standard . we can not have circumstance , as we have see in Greater Manchester , where child be live in very poor condition . it be really important that we have regulation and , where people be in accommodation that fall below those standard , we have redress . after four year , the clock be tick . there can be no more delay , but the Government ' s track record do not instil much confidence . on the Tories ' watch , mortgage bill and rent be soar , few people be able to buy their own home , and over 1 million people be stick on social housing waiting list . those problem be only go to get bad because the Prime Minister could not stand up to his Back Benchers on house building target . now it appear that once again , he be cave in to they , rather than keep his promise to the british people . this Bill be an important step forward , support renter at the sharp edge of the cost of living crisis , so Labour will work constructively throughout its passage . we will not be the cause of delay — I hope the Secretary of State can say the same about his Back Benchers . if they can not act in the national interest and support a renter ' reform Bill worthy of its name , let I make clear that our offer be to do so instead , because over the course of our proceeding today , 33 renter will have be put at risk of homelessness because they be issue with a section 21 notice and 11 will have get a visit from the bailiff evict they . every single one of those people will be face with anxiety about the future — anxiety about have to pay eye - watering moving cost and about whether they will be make completely homeless . they can not afford to wait for the Prime Minister to find a backbone and stand up to his party . they can not afford to wait for the Secretary of State to buy off his Back Benchers , and they can not afford to wait yet more year for this Government to keep the promise they make to they . we stand ready to work in the national interest , and will do so with anyone else who be prepared to join we . I urge the House not to waste this chance . it will be obvious to the House that a great many people want to catch my eye . we have a long time — we have three hour ahead — but I want to be fair in the way that that be divide up , so we will begin with a time limit of seven minute . in 2014 , fellow housing expert Calum Mercer and I publish a then - seminal paper call " Nation Rent " . that paper challenge what be then the status quo , which be that generation rent affect only young people and would be a passing phase . " Nation Rent " set out that it be a change structural environment in the housing and financial market that have occur since 2003 , which see a rapid acceleration of the private rented sector — overtake social rent — together with a fall in home ownership . that structural change start long before the credit crunch and financial crash , but accelerate after they . a decade on , little have change in structural term , and it should concern member of all party that generation rent have now become nation rent . the percentage of people age between 35 and 44 and between 45 and 54 who be rent privately have triple over the past two decade , and have more than double for those age between 55 and 64 . nation rent be now embed , not just in the young generation but through the generation . as I set out in my 2018 paper with the Housing and Finance Institute , " a time for Good Homes " , that structural change towards private renting affect around 2 . 4 million home , or around 6 million people . the need for legislation reflect that long - term structural shift . the private rented sector be no long a flex or transitory tenure : it be the main tenure for million of people for much , if not all , of their life . the current legislative framework — a short - term tenure for long - term living , one person ' s pension pot but another person ' s only home — be not fit for that purpose . that be why there be tension and strain , which be reflect in the design of the Bill and the comment that have be make about it . there be a need to find a new balance that reflect this new reality for million of people in our country , act in a way that be fair and responsible to those who be be house as well as to those who house they . it remain my view that although the principle of the Bill and its measure be very welcome , they do not go far enough in deal with the fundamental challenge of an overweighted private sector . there need to be a long - term plan for housing that rebalance the housing tenure mix — a plan to boost home ownership and expand affordable rent housing substantially ; one that unblock the financial and regulatory constraint on affordable home ownership and professional renting , and one that build more home . I continue to work cross - party and cross - industry , inside and outside of this place on those priority , as I have do for many year and as be reflect in my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . give my long - term campaigning for housing , I be pleased to stand on a manifesto to build 1 million home this Parliament , work towards 300 , 000 home a year by the mid - 2020s , and scrap section 21 eviction . we have do well on the first , the second be a work in progress and the third manifesto commitment be why we be here today . I know at first hand the personal commitment that the Secretary of State and the Housing Minister bring to this matter , and how hard their commitment to it be . this be a vital piece of legislation , because it seek to provide great security and stability for renter . this matter — and it should matter to everyone on the conservative Benches — because housing instability destroy wealth creation , damage life chance , restrict educational prospect and harm health . I see this in my constituency inbox , as I be sure do all member . in my MP surgery , I have a mother who have spend hundred of pound of her own money over many year build a comfortable home for she and her disabled daughter , only for they to be turf out by their landlord with nowhere to go . recently , I have to discuss with ukrainian refugee how someone have complain to their landlord about the heating not work , only for they to find themselves serve with a section 21 eviction notice . how do you begin to explain that that be just how thing work in our country ? they should not work like that ; this need to change . that be why this reform be so important , but we can not allow any delay , and that include the propose delay because , supposedly , repossession be take too long . that be nonsense . there be already clear court guidance to deal with repossession claim in a timely manner , as set out in civil procedure rule 55 . 5 , which state that the hearing must take place between four and eight week from the claim . although there have be some spike in court hearing over the covid pandemic , the timeliness of possession claim have remarkably improve . the late available figure from the Ministry of Justice show that the average time between claim and order be now back to under eight week . the average time between claim and warrant be the same as it be in December 2019 , when the conservative commitment be make to the nation . the repossession figure have collapse from the post - covid high of 69 week , and be back on track to pre - covid level . for landlord , every single median metric — be that for order , warrant or possession — have dramatically improve on the late Government datum . therefore , this landmark section 21 reform should not be delay on the basis that court improvement be require . that be a concern of our Select Committee , and I think it have now be meet in part by the improved datum . any change to the Bill that delay the implementation of these vital reform can not be support . this issue affect million of people in our country . that be why renter reform — specifically the abolition of section 21 — be in the 2019 manifesto , on which all of we on the Conservative Benches stand . it be a manifesto that put the Conservatives on the side of the people , and a manifesto that secure such a huge majority . it would be a grave mistake not to honour that commitment , or to stifle it by delay . to conclude , the Renters ( Reform ) Bill will provide security and stability to million of renter across the country . it should be pass by Parliament without any further delay , but we must also do more to continue to unlock home ownership and other housing to deliver the home and the housing stability that our nation need . I call the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee . first , I put on record that I be a vice - president of the Local Government Association . have consider the White Paper and then the Bill , the Select Committee welcome in principle the proposal from the Government to abolish section 21 . we hear evidence in a number of session from organisation such as Shelter , look at the interest of tenant , and from the National Residential Landlords Association , and they all accept that this be the right way to go and engage constructively with the Select Committee on that . People ' s home can be take away from they just like that when they have pay their rent and observe their tenancy condition , and in principle that simply can not be right . when a home be take away , people have to move somewhere else , and their child have to uproot themselves from their school and be take to another school . member of the family who work may have to find another job somewhere else , because their home have move and they can no long get to their place of employment . that simply be not right in this day and age . we recognise as a Committee — I make this point in an intervention — that there will be add work for the justice system , because eviction will now require a decision from the court and more tenant may feel empower to go to the court . I be really disappointed that the Secretary of State be not go to indicate when he think the reform to the court system will be in place to allow the legislation to be enact . I think we need assurance today about when that will be . that can not be an excuse for delay something that have already be delay for far too long . I want to point out one or two other issue . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s welcome for the work that the Select Committee have do , even though his response be a little late ; I accept his apology for that . we say very clearly in our report that enforcement by local authority will be absolutely key in make these change work . there have to be proper funding for local authority , as the Local Government Association have say today , to enable that work to be carry out properly . we want assurance from the Secretary of State on that as well . one of the really good idea be the property portal , so that tenant and all of we know who the landlord be . we have suggest some change and some improvement , on which I think the Secretary of State will come back to we , to make sure that the property portal be comprehensive . it should cover thing such as when the property last have a gas safety certificate and when the electrical system in the house be properly inspect , and information of that kind , include whether it comply with the decent home standard . all those thing be important , and tenant should be able to access that quickly . the register should be update and digitise , which we be encourage the Secretary of State to do . we hope he will come back positively on that . the cost for tenant be important . we welcome the Secretary of State ' s say that rent increase can not take place more than once a year , but we have concern about the overload on the tribunal system and the way that those argument will be play out , often with the landlord have a great advantage . we be not quite sure why the Secretary of State be say that a tenancy agreement could not have a yearly update of rent in line with inflation , with no need for argument . that be actually the case in many rent agreement now . while it have be difficult in the last couple of year with hyperinflation , historically — with inflation at about 2 % — that have not be an issue and it give some certainty to tenant . we be not sure , and we have not have an explanation , why the Government have rule that out completely . come back to the point about tenant on benefit , why can we not have a ban on landlord automatically prohibit tenant on benefit from renting ? surely the Secretary of State should do that , and should indicate very quickly that he be prepared to accept that as an amendment to the Bill . I strongly support the point that the hon . Gentleman have just make about the importance of the Government outlaw these blanket ban on rent in the private sector by those who be in receipt of benefit . I have be see a double whammy in that , in a constituency such as mine in Twickenham , rent have go up by over 12 % in the past year and , as he say , local housing allowance have not go up , so people be evict and ban from rent if they be in receipt of benefit when they try to find a new place . I pay tribute to the work of Citizens Advice Richmond , which have be run a campaign on that . we need to see the ban on such practice in place soon . I completely agree with those point , and I hope the Secretary of State respond positively to they . I think the situation be of real concern , and there be no reason why the ban can not be enact . I have already make the point about local housing allowance . it be not part of the Secretary of State ' s Department , but it be part of government policy . it be always go to be a challenge for tenant to pay their rent in the private rent sector give the rise in rent recently , but people on the low income and on benefit be now be exclude from most property because they simply can not afford it , because their local housing allowance have be freeze . the LHA need to be lift . even if the Secretary of State can not say so today , I hope he be encourage those behind the scene who can make the change to make they in a proper and timely way . I have a couple of other point . student housing be different . the difference in student housing have be recognise where it be purpose - build student housing in that it will be exempt from the ban on periodic tenancy . that be entirely sensible . recently , we have see some real pressure on student accommodation in some university city . last year , Manchester student be actually be encourage to live in Liverpool , because there be not enough housing in Manchester for they . that be just one of a number of example in relation to protect the student market , include non - purpose - build accommodation . briefly , I wish to declare my interest . as the parent of a daughter who be currently at Manchester University , I know exactly what the hon . Gentleman mean . we will be do everything we can . I recognise that the Secretary of State have respond to the Committee ' s report , and while not allow a complete reversal to periodic tenancy for non - purpose build student accommodation , landlord will have the right to terminate the tenancy in line with the university year — I think that be the basis of the proposal he be suggest . that might well be a good compromise to take thing forward , and I be sure the detail of that will be test far in Committee . on the proposal for the ombudsman , the suggestion in an intervention from my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) about have one housing ombudsman , and incorporate the private sector role into the social housing ombudsman role , be very sensible . why do we need two separate scheme for let agent ? why can we not have just one ombudsman cover the whole of that area ? at least everyone could understand it , rather than have to think , " which bit do I go to in order to get this grievance raise ? " I hope the Secretary of State will reflect on that point , which be simply make , to ensure that the process of redress grievance work well . member of the Committee welcome the basic principle of the change propose by the Secretary of State , and we want they to be implement as quickly as possible . we hope he will continue to listen to those recommendation that he have not yet indicate a willingness to accept . everybody agree that people deserve to live in rent home that be safe , warm , free from damp and mould , and in which they can feel secure . nobody doubt that intention , or the fact that rogue landlord should be clamp down on and be make responsible . however , rogue landlord be the minority — the Secretary of State have say that on the Floor of the House — yet despite that , the Government seem to be tar every landlord with the same brush with the Bill . the ironic fact be that there be already a plethora of legislation that allow local authority to clamp down on every housing issue , include the scourge of the rogue landlord . one issue be that council themselves be often the rogue , cite resource as an excuse for inaction , and with private landlord they already take action , or at least have the power to take action if they so wish . without wish to pinch the tv advertising slogan , this Bill do not do what it say on the tin . it should be rename the " rogue landlord and nightmare tenant Bill " , because all it do be force good landlord to take action that they would not normally take . to highlight what I mean , this be what have happen in the past . the Government force landlord to put deposit into a government - approve scheme , which landlord do . any landlord who have try to get money back from that scheme when tenant have cause damage will know that it be nigh - on impossible . so instead of put money into deposit scheme , many landlord now do not take deposit . instead , they have increase rent in order to cover the cost . the Government do not treat private landlord as sole trader , but instead treat the whole income from rent as taxable , whether someone have a mortgage on the property or not . the result of that be increase rent . the Government stop pay landlord directly when tenant on benefit be in arrear , instead say that the contract be with the tenant and not the Government . as a result , good landlord be now force to take rent in advance — in the old day they use to take it in arrear as those tenant on benefit be pay by universal credit — and they have increase the rent because of the high risk . many , many landlord do not take people on benefit as a result of that . the Government say that they will legislate to make it illegal for landlord to discriminate against those on benefit , but when landlord have between 20 and 50 applicant for each house , all the legislation in the world will not make a ha ' porth of difference , because the landlord will always take the most risk - free option . one key component of the Bill be the removal of section 21 " no fault " eviction — because of the time limit I have have to strip load out of this speech , Madam Deputy Speaker . leader Romans Group be one of the UK ' s large property maintenance company . indeed , it have a landlord client base of more than 65 , 000 . it take a sample survey from those landlord and find that section 21 of the Housing Act 1988 be rarely use , rarely overused , and even more rarely misuse . of all those who respond to the survey , 80 % have never use section 21 . of those who have , a significant majority — over 60 % — do so because the tenant be in breach of the lease . the English Housing Survey 2021 - 22 find that only 6 % of tenancy end at the landlord ' s volition . both figure demonstrate the fact that the vast majority of landlord do not evict tenant on a whim . to end no - fault eviction through the abolition of section 21 be extreme , unnecessary and damaging to both landlord and tenant . let I give a couple of example about use section 8 eviction to replace section 21 . ground eight be currently the most heavily rely on ground for landlord try to gain repossession , and it currently provide a two - week notice period . it apply where the tenant be two month in rent arrear at the date of the section 8 notice and the date of the possession hearing . in the Bill , the notice period have be extend to four week . also , any outstanding universal credit payment that the tenant be due to receive be not to be include when calculate the arrear , if the universal credit payment would reduce arrear below the two - month threshold . the Government can not say to landlord on one hand that the contract for UC be between the landlord and the tenant , but in the Bill say that the landlord have to take off the pende UC payment for rent . it be a nonsense . I be short of time , so I will briefly mention expand the power for antisocial behaviour under section 8 of the Housing Act 1988 . it be unlikely to change the effect of ground 14 , which — I think this question be ask early — be not mandatory but discretionary . that mean that the judge have to consider whether it be reasonable to make a possession order , even if a tenant be guilty of the allege conduct . it be very unlikely that any court would consider some trivial conduct to justify a possession order . as have be mention several time , the real issue be the inaction in build more house for people to live in — that be not just this Government but successive government . the market will not change until a Government grasp the nettle and literally put spade in the ground , as Macmillan do in the 1950 . there be a reason why we have the Homes for Ukraine scheme : it be because we do not have any house to put people in . there be a reason why over 100 , 000 young man be stay in hotel in this country : it be because we have no home to put they in . the Bill will do absolutely nothing to improve the rental market . it will drive more landlord from the system . the Secretary of State say early that the number of landlord in this country have stay static since 2016 , but I would like to know exactly where he get that information from as it be not the information come from the market . be my hon . friend aware that just five day ago Jones Lang LaSalle , one of the big property consultant in the world , publish a report that analyse rightmove evidence of rental market availability ? it show that in the south - east and south - west of England , rental availability be down by 32 % on 2019 . be that cause by some of the thing my hon . friend have be talk about ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . this be a problem right throughout the country , not just the south - east . it be happen in the north in Calder Valley — wherever people be , there be an absolute shortage of home , whether socially or privately rent . the Bill will do nothing to improve the rental market . it will drive more landlord from the system , and because of those shortage of home to rent , where dozen of people apply for any home that be available , the Bill will also do nothing to curb the rogue landlord element . it be genuinely hard to overstate the scale of the housing crisis that we be in , in 2023 . every element of this crisis interact with every other element , and they all feed off each other , drive — I agree with the right hon . member for Calder Valley ( Craig Whittaker ) on this one point — by the failure to build enough home , as well as : the decline in home ownership , particularly among the young ; the shrinking of the social rent sector ; the growth of the private rented sector , especially , as have be point out , give the many different housing market within the private sector ; the growth of the private rent sector for those who be least able to afford that ; the growth of homelessness ; the pressure of housing cost , drive particularly by the shortfall between the housing element of the social security budget and actual housing cost ; the collapse in legal aid and the advice sector ; and the pressure on local authority across the board . that have lead to a perfect storm , at the sharp end of which be homelessness . it be a relief to have this Bill with at least the promise that section 21 will end , because the section 21 power be use for the most vulnerable and poor and drive people directly into the homelessness sector . as an MP whose borough have the large proportion in the private rent sector anywhere in the country , I feel strongly about that . it be profoundly worrying to hear that the Government have backtrack four year after they first promise to abolish section 21 . the caveat we now have before we will mean in effect that there will be no progress on protect tenant over the come year . it will be year before those power be bring into effect , because one of the other element of this omni - crisis be the shamble that be the court system . we know that the Ministry of Justice take the single large proportion of all spending cut in the post - 2010 austerity budget , and it be struggle to cope with the current system . the sector have no plan and no provision to make the change that the Secretary of State be rely on as a preliminary for abolish section 21 . every day that go by mean that more people — many highly vulnerable — will face eviction . on average , 290 London renter a week have face no - fault eviction since the Government promise to bring an end to they in 2019 . Citizens Advice say that it have help 10 , 600 household with section 21 case since this Bill have its First Reading . a six - month delay would mean almost 15 , 000 more londoner face no - fault eviction , and a third of all no - fault eviction in England in recent year have be in the capital . it be London — the most expensive place and the place with the great homelessness crisis — that will bear the heavy burden as a result of further delay by the Secretary of State . at the heart of all this be the tenant themselves . for many people , insecure tenancy be a nuisance — often an expensive one — that keep they in a state of permanent instability . high level of population turnover be not good for strong community . they be link to low level of participation at every level of civic society , and they place a particular strain on public service such as GPs and school . for the most vulnerable , the private sector be a live nightmare , damage their physical and mental health . all too often , insecurity , unaffordability and poor standard of accommodation come as a single package , place the great strain on those who can cope with it least . my casework — like that of many other member , I be sure — be full of example like these . one constituent write to I : " we have be issue with a section 21 eviction letter by the landlord . I suffer from severe depression and recently have a cornea eye transplant and be still undergo treatment . my son have autism , asthma , be non - verbal with severe sensory need and also struggle with change , and we have both suffer serious mental health breakdown due to our current living condition . " these constituent have to wait until the court issue a bailiff warrant for they to be move into alternative accommodation , but due to the high level of backlog that the court be experience , that will not be any time soon . as she write : " this whole process have be severely detrimental to my mental health … my concern be that our current property isn ' t safe as the kitchen ceiling be about to collapse in on we " . another constituent write : " this miscreant of a landlord send I a section 21 notice for possession of my apartment . I have be a tenant there in good standing for three year . rent be always pay on the due date . rent be £ 850 for a tiny room … with a share toilet and shower with 17 other tenant . the landlord inform I today that he want to raise the rent to £ 1 , 516 … an 80 % rent increase out of the clear blue sky ! " a third constituent write : " today my wife and I be serve with a no - fault eviction … principally for refuse to agree to an almost 20 % rent increase . this be particularly gall , because in February we have already have an increase of almost 10 % . we now have just eight week to find a place to live , but as you … know , there be a dearth of property … not just in this area but other part of London . " they think it highly unlikely they will be able to find somewhere to live . they continue : " I be utterly dishearten that we live in a country where this be possible . it be nothing short of an outrage . " there be much in this Bill that be good . there be element promise for this Bill that be not here and that we will want to press on , and there be a number of concern we will want to press on in Committee to probe the Government . the central point be this : tenant insecurity be extremely damaging . it be bad for mental and physical health , it be expensive and it place pressure on local authority . the long that measure be delay , the bad it will be . the Government have break their promise , and we will be hold they to account for that failure . this be without doubt a significant Bill , which show that the Conservative Government be serious about deliver our manifesto commitment and deliver for the british people . in my constituency , tackle homelessness and rough sleeping be a key priority . to make in - road , we must reform the private rental market . many of my constituent and people across the country be trap in high rental spiral , with little or no other viable option available to they . on that basis , the Bill ' s proposal to enable tenant to appeal excessive market rent design to force out tenant could be an important step , but we need to ensure we see more detail on how that would work in practice . on top of that , and more broadly , we must go back to these proposal and make sure that they do not let up on the delivery of more affordable housing and social housing . the Housing Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) have hear I say that time and again . I believe there be a consensus across the House on that point . as the Bill progress , I will be keep a strong look - out for the appropriate protection for renter , but we can not forget that without landlord , we would not have a rental market at all . that be why we need to strike the right balance between assurance for landlord and protection for renter . the tendency to vilify landlord be not just unhelpful to our public discourse ; it be unhelpful to how we be develop legislation . we must make sure that we look after landlord in this process ; they form a critical part of the housing ecosystem , and scare they off would set we back even far , so we must tread carefully . through my role as chairman of the all - party parliamentary group for housing market and housing delivery , and from meet landlord and tenant in my constituency , I have engage with a huge range of stakeholder , include professional landlord such as Grainger and charity such as Shelter . through those discussion , I be aware of the stick point that we need to resolve as we progress this Bill through its remain stage . to get into just one of the detail — I know we be push for time — Grainger and other in the industry favour the idea of introduce the ability for landlord to request a six - month minimum tenancy length . once that period be over , renter could issue a two - month notice . responsible landlord such as Grainger — and many other ; in fact , the vast majority of they — want to build community and have last bond with the people they house , which be an often forget point in these debate . conversely , charity that I have be talk to that fight for the side of tenant and renter , such as Shelter , want to see a long protect period for tenant , with a focus on open - end tendency . they want to see the protect period lengthen from six month to two year to give renter more certainty and security . in the light of proposal to introduce comprehensive possession ground for landlord , we need to be careful that we find a compromise between the two position . the reform propose in the Bill be promise , and I think we can all accept that they be a step in the right direction . however , there be more work to be do in find the right balance between the need of renter and landlord and successfully integrate the rental market with our levelling - up plan and the need to deliver more affordable housing across our country . I call Feryal Clark — not here . that be a shock . I join colleague across the House in welcome this long - overdue Bill and share their dismay at the delay in implement a ban on no - fault eviction . renter have be leave with soar rent and disrepair , and be at the complete mercy of landlord , powerless under the current system of no - fault eviction to demand fair rent and humane living condition . this be a massive housing emergency . across the country , renter of all age and background — from student to family , young couple and single retiree — be struggle to pay their rent , let alone save for a deposit to buy . only half of private renter have any saving in their name . with a desperate lack of social housing , Liverpool alone have more than 15 , 000 applicant on the council ' s housing register and almost 1 , 000 household in temporary accommodation . the frontline housing option and homelessness service be see nearly 400 new approach a month . council be rely on the private rent sector as the only way to ease the pressure on the system , and renter be leave with no viable option . an entire generation have be betray by the Tories , with 13 year of austerity and rise rent , frozen wage and diminish opportunity . on top of that , they have face unprecedented challenge cause by the financial crash , recession , the pandemic and , now , the cost of living crisis . thirteen year of tory attack on worker ' and tenant ' right have leave renter face soar insecurity and plummet condition . we urgently need the Bill to be pass into law to begin to redress some of the bad impact of the deregulation . nearly five year since the Government propose to outlaw no - fault eviction and give renter desperately need protection from exploitative landlord , some 70 , 000 household have be threaten with homelessness by section 21 notice . Homelessness have skyrocket during the last year , with the number of household in England who become homeless or be at risk of homelessness up 7 % in the year to March . each day that we delay , 172 family be hand a no - fault eviction notice . we can not wait for improvement in the court ; renter need protection now . in my constituency , as across the country , we have increasingly see private landlord use no - fault eviction to turf out tenant on fix - term contract in order to hike up rent in line with soar market rate . not content with wait out one - year or two - year - long contract to raise rent and bolster profit , landlord be take advantage of the cost of live crisis to line their pocket while tenant be turf out with nowhere to go . Citizens Advice have find that a shocking 46 % of renter who complain about their condition receive a section 21 notice within six month . research by Shelter support that , with its finding show that private renter in England who complain about poor condition be 2 . 5 time more likely to be hand an eviction notice . end pernicious section 21 eviction be a major step in rebalancing power in favour of tenant , but there be a number of area where we need to go far to ensure that the Bill ' s measure have their intended consequence , as call for by the Renters Reform Coalition of the 20 lead housing organisation . first , we must increase the notice period from two month to at least four month : a move that will drastically reduce the number of people make homeless as a result of eviction . we must also protect renter from eviction for the first two full year of tenancy , not the six month propose . we must introduce strong safeguard to prevent abuse of the new ground for eviction , include a financial incentive for tenant to prevent abuse , and a one - year ban on re - let a property after invoke new landlord circumstance on the ground for eviction . court must be give maximum discretion to identify reason why an eviction should not take place , and a cap on in - tenancy rent increase in line with inflation and wage growth must be introduce to prevent unaffordable rent increase be use as a way to evict tenant via the back door . lastly , we need action to raise local housing allowance in line with inflation to prevent renter on benefit from be penalise by rise rent , and local authority must be give extra financial support to take action on rogue landlord . everyone deserve a safe and secure home . the Government must bring the Bill into law immediately , with the additional safeguard that member have outline , to deliver desperately need robust legislation that protect renter . I be pleased to rise to speak on Second reading of a Bill that fulfil a manifesto promise and introduce a number of measure ensure that renter get a fair deal and more protection while maintain landlord ' essential control over their property . acknowledge that there be both good landlord and tenant — there be problematic one as well — we must strike a careful balance . therefore , as well as abolish section 21 eviction and move to a simple structure where tenancy be periodic to empower renter and provide they with more certainty , the Bill introduce reform to ensure that repossession where tenant be at fault be easy , such as in case of repeat , frequent arrear or antisocial behaviour . the majority of landlord - tenant relationship work well , but , where they break down , early and effective dispute resolution be crucial . the new private rent sector ombudsman will be able to provide impartial and bind resolution to issue . however , it be not a full replacement for the court system . therefore , his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service must be ready for the change . I welcome that some of that have already be raise , indicate that there will be : more digitising of the court process to make it simple and easy for landlord to use ; prioritise of certain case , such as those include antisocial behaviour , which can be a significant issue for landlord and tenant alike in my constituency ; and the provision of early legal advice and well signpost for tenant , include to help they find a housing solution that meet their need . I urge the Minister to work at pace with the Justice Secretary so that we can bring forward these measure as soon as possible . my constituent in Cheadle be animal lover , so I welcome that the Bill will give tenant the right to request have a pet in their property . landlord will be require to consider those request and unable to refuse they unreasonably . my hon . friend be make an important point . the people of Southend West be great animal lover , and many have write to I to say that they have not be allow to have a pet in a private rent property — what a terrible thing that be for their mental health . in Southend , I have meet the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and be tell heartbreake tale of people have to give up their pet . like she , I welcome the provision in the Bill such that landlord can not unreasonably refuse a request for a pet , but , likewise , landlord can demand that the tenant take out insurance against any damage that a pet may do — a good balance act . do she agree that , give how important pet be to our physical and mental health , those provision be to be much welcome ? I certainly agree , and my hon . friend have pre - empte many of my comment . it be heartbreaking for many people to part with their pet in order to have a roof over their head . however , as we know , pet can sometimes cause damage and deterioration to a property , so it be important that landlord can insist on pet insurance to cover any damage cause as a result . however , for clarity , I would be grateful if the Minister could clear up a query from a constituent who express concern to I about allow pet in share property . in those circumstance , what will constitute a reasonable refusal — for instance , what if another resident with allergy or difficulty with animal complain ? will the Minister make sure that acceptable reason for give that refusal be make clear ? as the Secretary of State mention , the proposal have be examine in Committees . as a member of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , I have have the opportunity to look closely into reform of the private rented sector , examine the Government ' s proposal as set out in the White Paper , " a fairer private rent sector " . we hear from a wide range of stakeholder with view across the spectrum . the Committee find that there be considerable support for the proposal of introduce an ombudsman for the sector . far , we hear evidence that many rogue landlord be not intentionally malicious but unaware of their obligation . we hear that supporter of the Bill hope it will be an effective place for resolution . equally , there be concern from landlord that it might create additional bureaucracy , and concern from tenant group that it may take away the ability to go to court . reassurance about the ease of use of the dispute mechanism would be welcome . get the balance right be crucial . over the summer I meet tenant , landlord and let agent , such as Cheadle - base Stuarts Homes , which facilitate tenant and landlord on a daily basis . I be grateful to all my local resident , tenant and business for give I their view . as with any legislation or policy , we must consider any unintended consequence and seek to balance the protection of tenant with the right of landlord . I hear about potential issue with the debt respite scheme , also know as " breathe space " . it be introduce in 2021 to help those experience debt , and provide individual with a 60 - day period in which interest and charge on their debt be frozen and enforcement action from creditor be pause . that be pair with a requirement to seek professional support to create a repayment plan . the scheme will have come as a relief to many . however , I have listen to concern that some tenant have misuse it to prevent eviction in case of long - stand non - payment of rent . the stress of non - payment of rent — sometimes for month on end — affect landlord , who be unable to take possession of their property and be owe thousand of pound in rent , which they fear they will never recoup . meanwhile , I have constituent in Cheadle who be landlord operate student let . they have express concern about the abolition of fix - term let . I be tell that it may prevent landlord from secure tenant ahead of time for the next academic year , thereby take away certainty and security for both landlord and student , who want to know their housing situation be sort ahead of time . I be give an example by a constituent of where rental agreement be share and if a student leave , the other be — in theory — liable for the extra share of rent . however , in practice , the student leave find a suitable replacement , the lease be transfer and the depart resident get their deposit back . as such , my constituent feel that a move to roll tenancy , as the Bill propose , would be unsuitable for student let . I be reassure that that be be consider again . we also hear during session of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee that the change could negatively impact the rental market , make it unattractive for landlord to let to student . I understand that the Secretary of State have plan to introduce a new ground for possession , which will facilitate short - term student tenancy , but the Committee — and my constituent — recommend give consideration to retain fix term for the student rental market . although I be pleased that the Government recognise the unique position of student accommodation in the rental market , I ask they to look at do that . the Bill make some much - need change , but I ask the Government to listen to the outstanding concern raise by those directly affected — the tenant and the landlord . we must ensure that we do not create unintended negative consequence or further problem that negate the good work of the Bill . in closing , I reiterate my overall support for these measure , and I look forward to follow the Bill as it move through the legislative process . almost 40 % of my constituent be private renter , and I be pleased to have the opportunity to reflect their concern . of those , many be student — I think I have the large number of student of any Member in the country — and I want to raise their concern as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for student . I be one of a cross - party group of 60 parliamentarian who write recently to the Secretary of State urge he to bring forward this legislation , so I be delighted that we have it . I do so primarily because of its promise to fulfil the Government ' s pledge to end no - fault section 21 eviction , so it be a bitter disappointment that the Government appear to have frustrate the hope of tenant by kick the abolition of section 21 notice down the road to some potentially distant future , after further change to the court system — something that I see that the National Residential Landlords Association have celebrate in a statement today , as a result of its " extensive lobbying " . I hope that the Government will think again , or at least give we an assurance this evening of the date when they plan to fulfil the ambition for no - fault eviction . I hope the Government will go far in deliver the promise new deal for private renter in other area , because I share the concern of the Renters Reform Coalition that the Bill need amend to ensure that the propose " landlord circumstance " ground for eviction do not become the new section 21 . the tenant should be give four month ' notice rather than two . there should be a one - year ban on re - letting after invoke the new landlord circumstance , rather than the propose three month . we need strong mechanism than those propose to stop unaffordable rent increase — of which we have hear example already this evening — pricing tenant out and become the new section 21 . we need to ensure that tenant can be confident in raise issue and make complaint without fear of retaliation . I hope that those issue will be consider seriously in Committee . I want to raise the concern of student renter . there be an exemption for purpose - build student accommodation , but many student live in the part of the private rent sector that be cover by the Bill — around 45 % of they , or 600 , 000 across England and Wales . their voice have not be fully hear , which our all - party group have be try to address . in May , we hold a roundtable with student representative from most of our major city and many of our small town . they agree that there be many positive element to the Bill , but raise issue that need further clarification if it be to succeed for all renter . I see that in his response to the Select Committee , the Secretary of State accept the argument of landlord that " the student market be cyclical and … landlord must be able to guarantee possession each year for a new set of tenant " . he go on to state that " we will introduce a new ground for possession to facilitate this . " I understand that case , and it be reflect in some of the student voice that we hear , but we need to take care about how we do it because there be an underlie false assumption in the discourse around the issue that all student fit a traditional stereotype : on three - year undergraduate course , want a 10 - month contract and leave their university town when they finish their study . however , student be not homogeneous . undergraduate and postgraduate have different requirement ; there be 30 - week programme and 52 - week programme ; some course start at different time of the year and have a different cycle . there be mature and part - time student , student with family , estranged student , international student , graduate apprentice , those who stay on to study or work during vacation while their friend do not , and those who want to make their university house a permanent home . many student live in mixed household , with recent graduate or other non - student . it simply would not work to have people in a mixed household on a share tenancy with different right . a ground for possession clause might protect the market , but a one - size - fit - all approach will not address the fact that not all student want property that be cyclical with the standard undergraduate year . so we need a clear definition of a student and how ground for possession will be implement . I would welcome some acknowledgement from the Minister , in wind up this evening , that the Government have give consideration to those complexity in their proposal in relation to student . we also have to recognise that the student market differ greatly across the country . large city be different from small town , and urban and rural - base university be different again . the Higher Education Policy Institute ' s study of the scottish experience highlight the risk in tourist area , or in other area with low supply and high rent , that not exempt student will encourage landlord to move out of student accommodation . student representative express concern to we about be price out in some area by young professional . on the other hand , there be worry that exempt student in some area will risk they become second class renter , attract less scrupulous landlord into student accommodation because they be relatively unprotected tenant . student renter face many of the same issue as other renter and they deserve the same broad protection . they face specific issue , too . the raise with we the grow pressure they be under to view and sign tenancy agreement for a property early and early each year — often in this term , early in the academic session , before friendship group be form — leave they lock into unwanted contract . the Bill do not address that , but student feel that it should . there be other question that need address if we be to exempt student . what happen if a renter ' s student status change during the tenancy ? how will the Bill address the issue of joint tenancy ? to conclude , I simply say to the Minister that we should not rush to exempt student from the protection in the Bill relate to no - fault eviction and keep they uniquely lock into fix - term tenancy without careful consideration of the impact on all type of student in all part of England and Wales . even then , we need to ensure they continue enjoy the protection in the Bill . I hope the Minister will agree to meet the all - party parliamentary group for student , and student representative , to hear our concern . I must declare that I own half of a rental property with my wife and should therefore refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I want to start by talk about one of my favourite subject in this place . I have often speak in the House about the impact of second home in my constituency . while they bring many economic benefit , we must also face the fact that quite often they turbocharge the market , push up price and make home ownership simply a dream for many local people . it be no big secret that North Norfolk have the high proportion of second home in the country outside London . in addition , one in five property be private rental . however , with an increase number of holiday let and second home for many local people , the availability of secure , long - term rental be diminish year on year . that be particularly worry in a constituency such as mine . I be very grateful to my hon . friend , whose area I know well because — I declare an interest — I farm in his constituency . I also have rental property . what he be say be absolutely correct . the Bill will have a disastrous effect on area such as his and mine , reduce the number of rental property and therefore increase the price of rent . for youngster , that be really serious . I thank my hon . friend for intervene . I do not agree at all , actually . in constituency like mine , people have a real problem with the security of rental property . if they be evict , it be virtually impossible for they to find somewhere else to rent in a short space of time at the moment . I deal with query about that all the time , but I will come on to that in just a moment . it be worry that for so many who be look to settle down in a family home of their own , renting be become the only option due to rise house price . for example , on Friday I bump into a local estate agent in one of my big town , North Walsham . he tell I he have 25 applicant for every rental property that come on to the market . the demand be just off the scale . clearly , that be a really huge problem . there be simply not enough rental market security when demand be rise as it be . now , clearly I be a Conservative and I be not against people want to purchase property in Norfolk as a second home . if one work hard in life , one should have the choice to spend one ' s finance as one wish . but I also believe that when the market begin to fail , intervention be sometimes necessary and that be where we be at the moment . many second home , for instance , be leave vacant for large part of the year , reduce the property pool and once again reduce the availability of home for resident to rent . although holiday let and vacant second home be not the focus of my speech today , follow conversation I have have with many of my constituent , especially Jane Platt , whom I meet when she come all the way from North Norfolk to Parliament back in March , I know how unsettled and insecure tenant can feel in the sector as it currently stand . that fear be exacerbate in area such as North Norfolk , because if a landlord decide to serve an eviction notice , give everything I have just say , there would simply be so little choice available for renter who need to find a new home quickly . indeed , sadly , just in the four year I have be in this place , I have try to help many desperate family find a suitable home to rent . that be at the pinnacle of why I support the Bill . the Government be try to help . many initiative have come forward ; I be a parliamentary private Secretary in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities for a short period of time . double council tax on second home , planning change for short - term rental and now this Bill show that the Government be commit to fulfil their manifesto commitment to introduce reform that will provide family across the UK with that extra reassurance that they will be able to settle into a family home and be free from , in certain case , unfair eviction and , in very limited circumstance , landlord who do not act in a correct way . many landlord and tenant be good , honest and decent people ; they be the norm . the private landlord be , in my view , the answer to the rental crisis we face , but only if they be incentivise properly , for example with tax reform . I gently suggest that in some regard we could go far with some of the Government ' s proposal to ensure that good and decent tenant feel secure in the private rental sector and feel they can put down root . it might not be a big issue for some member , but as other have say , enable someone to have a pet in their home , as I allow , be certainly right in the 21st century when so many people treat a family pet as a part of their family . there be large support across the board for the Government ' s current proposal , and I be not suggest that they be materially change . however , I believe there be some valid conversation to be have around increase notice period from two to four month to give people time to find a new home . I have say it before , but in my constituency and in many other — for instance , in the south - west — I doubt anyone could find another rental property in two month , such be the enormous shortage . in addition , I would potentially improve the protect period at the start of the tenancy from six month to at least a year , as well as make all ground discretionary rather than mandatory so that a court can take into account a tenant ' s circumstance before grant possession . above all — I have say this to various Ministers before — why can we not incentivise long - term landlord to return to the market by offer mortgage interest relief on long - term tenancy ? in a constituency such as mine , so many people offer short - term rental in their holiday cottage and on Airbnb , but if we could switch those people to offer long - term tenancy on their property by give they mortgage interest relief , it would fundamentally change the situation overnight and give more renter market security . it would seriously improve the amount of rental stock we have available . I appreciate the need to safeguard landlord from antisocial tenant and to allow they to get their property back when need ; we have hear that this evening . however , the tightening of some of the Government ' s proposal would not cause an exodus of landlord from the sector or prevent they do what they wish with their asset . as I say before , I own a part - share and I do not have any fear at all . when a landlord have a good relationship with their tenant , that be how it work — operate good relationship . generally , people who be try to rent be decent people . create a fair , more secure and thriving rental sector be achievable , and this Bill be the first step . rise — order . just for the sake of clarity , let I say that I be grateful to the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) . he take the correct allot time . there seem to be a mistake with the clock , but the hon . Gentleman have do the honourable thing , and I thank he very much for that . let I first draw member ' attention to my own entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be also half a residential landlord . the Bill have take far too long to reach this stage . it be more than four year since the Government ' s manifesto pledge , and now , in the die month of the current Parliament , the Bill have only just reach second reading . broadly , however , my Liberal Democrat colleague and I support it , and will vote for it this evening . any legislation that pave the way towards a fair situation for both renter and landlord must be welcome . most important be the end of no - fault eviction , and I shall say more about that shortly . we also welcome clause that will allow renter to keep pet in their home , and the creation of a housing ombudsman , which will enable decision to be make more quickly and cheaply for tenant and landlord . security for both tenant and landlord be vital , and it be essential that in provide that security for tenant , we do not inadvertently cause an exodus of landlord from the rental market . the Country Land and Business Association have find that 44 % of landlord plan to sell or change the use of their rental property in the next two year , which be cause for concern because at the same time we be see an increase in the number of people enter the private rental market . rightmove estimate that for every property advertise for rent there be 24 applicant , whereas there be just eight in 2019 . we need to ensure that we be incentivise landlord to stay in the market and to give renter security once they manage to become that one person in 24 to secure a property to rent . the length of rental tenancy be an important element in that regard . in its current form , the Bill introduce roll tenancy without specified end date . that provide considerable security for tenant , but the six - month protect period be potentially too short . meanwhile , 43 % of landlord do not have a portfolio of property ; they have just one , so the risk of empty month be significant for they . provide long - term tenure might alleviate that risk and remove an incentive for landlord to exit the market . the Liberal Democrats ' proposal be to extend the default tenancy from one to three year , and , during that three - year period , only to allow rent to increase by the rate of inflation . that would give both renter and landlords great stability . as I mention early , the liberal Democrats welcome the banning of section 21 or no - fault eviction . I be sure that member on both side of the House have have an enormous amount of casework feature , for many renter , a sudden and drastic upheaval in their everyday life cause by a section 21 eviction . such eviction leave people stress about their security of tenure and worry about not have somewhere to call their home , and can pull the rug from under their foot . they can require people to move to a new area , force they to find new school for their child or new job for themselves and try to settle into new community . that be particularly significant at present , because more family than ever be live in private rent accommodation , and , accord to the Renters Reform Coalition , 1 . 8 million renter household include child . the Government ' s commitment to abolish those type of eviction and legislate for landlord to be able to evict only in " reasonable circumstance " be therefore a welcome step towards ensure that renter ’ right be protect in law . it will also ensure that tenant live in property suffer from disrepair or even infestation can report such issue to their landlord without the fear of a " revenge eviction " . it should drive up standard , particularly if couple with long tenancy . as always , however , there be a balance to be strike between provide security for tenant and ensure that the legislation do not cause an exodus of landlord from the sector . it remain important for landlord to be able to remove tenant who be genuinely damage their property or the surround community , but I hope that the Minister will make the definition of what will enable that to happen absolutely clear . it be also important to guard against landlord be able to use flimsy excuse to evict tenant , allow section 21 eviction to continue in all but name . I hope that the Minister will elaborate on the reform of the legal system that will be necessary to allow landlord to evict when there be non - payment of rent , unreasonable damage to property or clearly define antisocial behaviour , or a genuine change in a landlord ' s circumstance . a prompt and fair court process be obviously essential to retain landlord confidence in a reform system , but delay in that process should not be use as a mechanism to kick this important legislation into the long grass . the quality of rental housing must also be consider . black mould , damp , faulty boiler — I be sure we be all aware of the difficult condition that some rental property be leave in . I say " some " with great seriousness , because not all private landlord leave their property in disrepair , but we must make the Bill robust enough to challenge those who do . the Government have previously promise to introduce legislation at the early opportunity to apply the decent home standard to the private rent sector . I find it concern that that legislation have not be introduce , and the Government have instead announce that they will delay the requirement that will force private landlord to meet energy performance certificate standard . I understand the cautious approach in ensure stability of supply in the private rented sector , but responsible landlord should not baulk at take measure over a reasonable timescale that will enhance the value of their asset . I also understand the concern about the usefulness of the EPC , but it should be possible to revisit that and phase in a more effective measure of energy efficiency rather than abandon it altogether , provide certainty and a fixed timetable that landlord should be able to work to . without such measure , the Bill risk offer rogue landlord an easy escape route when it come to improve the quality of the property . the Bill be well late than never , but I urge the Government to revisit the issue of length of tenancy , to clarify the circumstance in which , and the legal process through which , a landlord would legitimately be able to evict a problematic tenant or sell the property , and to consider include a decent home standard so that those renting privately can be sure of a safe and warm home for themselves and their family . let I end by call for a rapid increase in the building of social housing , because a shortage of supply be behind all these issue in the private rented sector , and it leave far too much power in the hand of landlord . I have no financial interest in the Bill . I be not a landlord , have never be one , and have no desire to be one . it sound like a very stressful job . however , I do declare a personal interest , because I be the father of young people in their 20 and 30 , and I be increasingly worried about their lack of opportunity to buy their own home , or indeed rent a home . my generation be fortunate in experience full employment , a buoyant housing and rental market , and low level of net migration . I be able to buy my first house — although it be a bit of a struggle — for £ 25 , 000 . the opportunity for young people be so difficult now . and I think they should be at the forefront of our thought . they be overwhelmingly reliant on the rental sector for accommodation . the housing crunch mean that they have to rent for a large proportion of their life , and the Government benchmark for an " unaffordable " level of rent be 30 % of income . as of last year , four in 10 under - 30 in England , Scotland and Wales be now pay rent that the Government consider " unaffordable " . the crisis be drive by a massive shortage of supply . policy such as help to buy only help to increase demand , while do nothing when it come to supply . only massive , comprehensive planning reform can solve this problem . we have to build many more house , and we have to free up the rented sector . we need a public - spirited mentality . many old people have work hard and have purchase their home , but they be undermine the ability of young people to do the same by object to new housing proposal — and , of course , when they object , they be also object to the ability of their own child and grandchild to get on to the housing market . much opposition to new housing be due to the fact that it be often poorly build , and development lack the upscaling in infrastructure that be need to support it . we need to adopt a holistic approach . the housing shortage mean that first - time buyer have little to choose from , and delay they from get on to the property ladder . young people ' s wage have not keep up with the rise cost of living and housing . they be force to spend more and more of their money on rent , leave less room for saving , pay off debt , and spend money which will flow into the general economy . rent increase be outpace wage growth in most of the UK . I know that many member , and rental reformer , have argue in favour of get rid of no - fault eviction to help give renter security , but I believe the reality be the opposite . ban no - fault eviction will make the rental market even more stagnant , and will lead to its dry up far . I urge the Government , if the Bill become law — as I be sure it will , with labour support — to allow a cool - off period so that over the next year , more and more landlord do not just get out of the sector altogether . apart from add to the burden of landlord , we do not want to see what happen when Ireland do this . the regulatory burden on landlord there be such that the rental sector shrink massively and government have pay the price in term of popularity . the number of available property for rent in Ireland have shrink to a record low . a temporary eviction ban there end at the end of March this year and do nothing to alleviate the shortage . no - fault eviction be in some sense a legal fiction . evict a tenant for fault be a complex process and the burden be on the landlord to prove a breach of tenancy , arrear of rent , nuisance or antisocial behaviour , criminal activity or substantial disrepair . depend on the tenancy , the notice period could be as short as two week or as long as several month . notice procedure be highly regulated and must observe the prescribed format . failure to observe this down to the letter of the law can render a notice invalid , delay eviction . if the premise be not vacate , it be up to the landlord to initiate costly legal proceeding . let we look at what happen in the past . in 1952 , under Harold Macmillan as Housing Minister , more than 270 , 000 new dwelling be complete . in 2019 , the year before the pandemic , just 213 , 000 new dwelling be build . in the statistical year end March 2019 , 612 , 000 people come to live in the UK , with 385 , 000 emigrate from the UK . that be a net migration figure of 227 , 000 people , on top of the housing shortage that already exist . the post - covid statistic be even bad . the Office for National Statistics estimate that net migration to the UK in 2022 be 606 , 000 . the same year , energy performance certificate datum suggest that just 252 , 000 home be build . the number of people we be let into the country be 2 . 4 time the number of new dwelling we be build . this be a crisis and it need to be address . this do not take into account the fact that even without these newcomer there be already a squeeze on housing . we welcome the fact that we have 174 , 000 Ukrainians come here , and perhaps we have not do enough but we have also welcome people from Afghanistan . no one be claim that we should not have take in these refugee in genuine need , but we need to be realistic . if we be let in these people in need , we need to severely curtail other migration — not just illegal migration but legal immigration — in order to stay afloat and give our own young people a chance to buy and rent house . young and less well - off people be be leave to shoulder the burden . house builder face complex and lengthy planning process that slow down development , and I can not agree with the Government on remove housing target . we need to reimpose housing target on local authority and we need a massive house building drive . we need to give many more people the opportunity to rent and we need to control net migration . for all these reason , I can not support the Bill tonight . today ' s Second reading of the Renters ( Reform ) Bill be long overdue but , as many have already say , it unfortunately do not go far enough in many area . since the Government first promise to end section 21 no - fault eviction , 70 , 000 household have be evict or threaten with homelessness . everybody deserve to have a safe , decent and affordable home , but sadly , on the Tories ' watch , mortgage bill and rent be soar , few people can buy their own home and over 1 million people be still stick on social housing waiting list . my constituency be one of the young in the country and have a high number of private and social renter than the national average . average house price be more than £ 675 , 000 , which be around 15 time the average annual salary , make it much hard for many to get on to the housing ladder . all too often , that leave they trap in the private rent sector . the Renters Reform Coalition have rightly assert that : " the private rented sector in England be characterise by poor standard , a lack of affordability , discrimination and " — most importantly — " insecurity . " I regularly receive correspondence from constituent complain about the poor living standard and eye - water rent that they be face . that be why I ask the Secretary of State early why he would not bring forward provision in the Bill to address the issue around decent standard . renter have never be so exposed or so desperately in need of government action to establish a fair , more secure and more affordable private rent sector . in London , private rent rise by over 6 % in the year to this September , which be the high for over a decade . the average rent in London be the equivalent of 40 % of the average household income , compare with just 26 % across England . the lack of protection for renter be play a huge role in these trend . that be why reform of this sector be vital , but more need to be do to protect renter and to ensure that they can live in a home that be safe , decent and affordable . the Bill as it stand do nothing to address the cost of renting , which have skyrocket . it contain no requirement for privately rent home to meet the decent home standard or provision to increase council ' investigative and enforcement power . the Bill will eventually remove section 21 no - fault eviction , but it still have many issue . renter will be protect from eviction only for the first six month of their tenancy , rather than the two year that many across the sector have be call for . they will be entitle to receive only two month ' notice of an eviction rather than four month , which would give they more security , and landlord will be ban from relette a property after evict tenant on new ground for only three month rather than for a year . while the Bill strengthen the law to ensure that landlord can increase rent only once a year , the mechanism for tenant to contest increase that be too high be not strong enough . we need to see a cap on tenancy rent increase at either the low end of inflation or wage growth . I also want to touch on pet in private rent home . this be an issue I have be work on with Battersea Dogs and Cats Home in my constituency , and an issue that many of my constituent have be write to I about . it be something that they care about . for many people , their pet bring they physical , mental and social health benefit as they be an integral part of many family unit . it be vital that we ensure that clause 7 and 8 be protect in the Bill , so that tenant have a legal right to request a pet in the property and the landlord must consider that request and not refuse it unnecessarily . this Bill alone will not solve the housing crisis in the private rented sector , and the Government must look at wholesale reform of the sector . Labour have commit , once in government , to increase the affordable housing supply , and the Mayor of London have already invest over £ 3 billion in build genuinely affordable home . there be so much more that the Government can do . they could look at unfreeze the local housing allowance and restore the link between the LHA and rise rent . it have be freeze for too many year and it be totally out of step with the cost of renting for many in this sector . shelter have show that low - income renter be be force to find , on average , an additional £ 648 for a one - bedroom property , which be virtually impossible for many . this Bill only scratch the surface on fix the housing emergency create by the Conservatives . to protect our constituent , more need to be do in every way to ensure that everybody have a safe , decent and affordable home to live in . this be the level of ambition that we need , but unfortunately it have be miss from this Government . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . look at the housing market , we know that the problem be when people feel insecure . generally speak , those who own their own home or who be in council housing feel secure , but the private rented sector , because it be focus on very short - term let , cause a problem . a one - year tenancy be not a problem for a mobile young man , but if he have a family , with child at school and work in the locality , and if he be unlucky enough to have go from one private landlord to another , over half a dozen year , before be evict , it will have a major effect on the family ' s life chance . the kid might not be able to go to school , they might have a long bus ride , and sometimes their exam might be affect . sometimes parent have to change job . it be laudable for the Government to try to lengthen tenancy in order to provide a little more security for those in the private rented sector , but I be not sure whether the formula in this Bill will actually do that . like some of my colleague , I be somewhat sceptical . there be quite a lot of room to improve the Bill . as my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) say , the Bill would probably be more effective if landlord be incentivise to keep tenant for long by be able to claim their mortgage interest against tax . we would then end up with a market that be much more logical and well for tenant who want a long - term , secure tenancy . in other word , a fiscal intervention would be more likely to succeed than many of the intervention the Government be currently suggest . of course , as many member have say , one solution be to build more house — more for people to buy and more for council housing . it be bizarre that some local authority have get into trouble buy shopping centre and pv farm when , actually , the money would have be much well spend on provide people with a decent home . we all know that our local authority spend a lot of money on put people in temporary accommodation , with possibly only a microwave to heat their food . investment in home , which be good for people ' s mental wellbeing and their child ' s upbringing , should be the priority of any Government , rather than be a question of right or leave . as a Government , we ought to focus more on building than on mess about with manage the housing market . I be concerned that some thing in the Bill may well put off private landlord . I sometimes feel that private landlord have a thankless task . they tend to get kick by everybody , even though they be try to do the right thing . fundamentally , if we make it more difficult for landlord to get their property , they will think twice before rent it out . we have to be extremely careful when we legislate in this area , because the consequence of make it more difficult for private owner be that we may well end up with more people be evict and more people fall on the council for a home . the Secretary of State introduce the Bill with his usual panache , but I be amazed that two large area have not really be include . first , the Bill will not work for student accommodation and , in fact , could have very perverse incentive . the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Paul Blomfield ) be an expert in this sector , and he make some interesting observation . he ask what would happen , if we have this system and try to introduce a separate system for student , where a student live with somebody who be in work . there be all sort of difficulty that the Bill will have to iron out . it be vital that those who have invest in property near our university — our university seem to be property company , as far as I can see — have the certainty of one year move on when another year come in , in good time , so that people can sort out their accommodation . we really should tell people what we be do when we introduce a Bill , rather than wait for what might come out during the Bill ' s passage . my other concern be about move from section 21 , which be clearly a blunt instrument , to the court . we currently have a major backlog in our court , on which I think they be make some progress , but the Bill will inevitably slow down the process for landlord . the Chairman of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , suggest that perhaps there ought to be property court to fast - track the complaint . there be all sort of issue . throughout most of my parliamentary career , when people have come to my surgery to say that they be go to court , I have tend to say , " Don ' t do it . " in this instance the Government be try to get people to go into the legal system , and I worry that it will take long . I worry whether this be the right solution for either tenant or property owner . have the Government do a proper assessment ? be we confident that the system will work ? the Bill have be introduce on a promise that it will be sort out , but the court be the responsibility of another Department , not the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . I worry about that . this Bill be not fully form , but I think it could be improve . it be one of those Bills for which committee consideration will be vital . I will support the Government tonight , but I will be look very carefully at how the Bill be improve as it go through this House . for my constituent in Liverpool , West Derby , and for million across the country , the private rent sector be the only housing option available because of the disastrous turning away from the post - war mass council house provision . those long - term political decision have lead we to our current crisis . the private rented sector have utterly fail to provide home that be decent , affordable and allow people to live in safety , security and dignity . More than one in 10 privately rent home contain a category 1 hazard that could kill or seriously maim , and tenant who raise complaint be two and a half time more likely to be hand an eviction notice , which often lead to a forced move that be disruptive to the family and to child ' s education . local authority have have their resource and capability decimate under the Government ' s austerity programme . this morning alone , three family in West Derby have contact my office after be give an eviction notice by a private landlord , with housing provision scant in Liverpool . I have previously raise in the House the case of my constituent with asthma whose landlord leave he in a damp property with no gas supply in the middle of winter . I have raise the case of constituent , include child , who be hospitalise and suffer serious health impact as a result of disrepair in privately rent home , and case of family live in fear of bailiff , have be serve a section 21 notice by their landlord after complain about terrible condition in their home . one constituent say , " section 21 take the humanity out of the situation and that ' s precisely the problem — we be human and our life be be carelessly destroy ! " since I raise these case a year and a half ago , my constituent have see no change to the law , so we finally welcome the Second reading of the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , which we hope might at least bring an end to the nightmare of section 21 no - fault eviction . the delay to the Bill have be shameful . nearly a quarter of a million private renter have be serve with no - fault eviction notice since the Government first pledge to ban they in April 2019 . during the delay between First Reading and second reading alone , Citizens Advice have have to help more than 10 , 500 people with section 21 eviction . the Secretary of State have now say : " implementation of the reform in this bill win ' t proceed until further improvement be in place and hmct be fully prepared for these change . " how long will that take ? can the Secretary of State explain how this commitment will be reflect in legislation ? my constituent and hundred of thousand of other have zero faith that they will ever see a ban on section 21 eviction under this government , because they have see 13 year of the Government ' s complete destruction of the justice system , which have cause so much damage to those seek justice in so many section of society , include housing . I sit on the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee . from the Secretary of State ' s response to the Committee ' s report , it feel as if the ideological destruction of the justice system by his Government be now be use as a cover to bow down to the lobbying from landlord — many of they seem to be on his back Benches — and to kick the ban of section 21 into the long grass . add to that be the concern of tenant , union and charity , who welcome the ban on section 21 eviction but be concerned that the Bill will replace section 21 with potential loophole for landlord to evict tenant under other term that be unfair or extremely vaguely define . they be also concerned that landlord will continue to be able , in effect , to evict tenant by raise rent to unsustainable level . I hope that the Secretary of State will address those fear and loophole when the Bill be in Committee . this Bill should be an opportunity to empower tenant and hardwire social justice into the system . so many people be look to the Bill to rebalance the scale of justice , which be weight so heavily against tenant and so in favour of profit . any delay in bring in a no - loophole ban on section 21 eviction really be unforgivable . a nation await . I refer hon . member to my declaration on the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I have be a landlord for 20 - plus year . I should also note that I have be a tenant , too . a wise man once say : " the first lesson of economic be scarcity : there be never enough of anything to fully satisfy all those who want it . " he also say : " the first lesson of politic be to disregard the first lesson of economic . " whenever this be the case , there be disastrous consequence . we see this every time labour be elect . who among we will ever forget the note that Labour leave we in 2010 ? it say : " I ' m afraid there be no money . kind regard — and good luck ! " as conservative , we understand the importance of sound economic and try not to interfere with the market , yet I be concerned that this Bill may be guilty of just that . the Bill could well result in few property to rent , and in sky - high rent . I thank the Secretary of State for meet I in Edlington in my constituency . I show he at first hand the problem that landlord and constituent be face as a result of the decade of neglect that the area have face under Doncaster ' s Labour - control council . I be still hopeful that levelling - up funding will help to transform this part of my constituency . I have write a plan for Edlington , which I know my right hon . friend have read . on a positive note , he will be pleased to know that his visit have buck up all the stakeholder : they be now begin to address issue that I have raise . my constituent be very grateful , as be I . I also thank the Secretary of State for his recent letter to I , in which he announce change that he have make to the Bill . they be need . that prove that the Secretary of State be willing to listen , but there remain many issue that need address . the simple fact of the matter be that the more bureaucratic and difficult we make renting for landlord , the more incentive they will have to sell up and reduce the number of property on the market to let . with few property for rent , scarcity mean that rent will increase . be that what tenant want ? we should be help landlord and tenant equally , not one over the other . savill have carry out research on the issue , and ten of thousand of landlord be do just that : sell up . More be expect to follow . there be those who say , " so what if the landlord sell ? what be all the worry ? the house be go nowhere . if it be sell , an owner - occupier or another landlord will buy it . " they be right — and if an owner occupier do buy it , that be fine . but if good landlord can not make a property pay , they may just sell to an unscrupulous landlord who will make it pay . be that what we seek to do : to make the property market so costly and so bureaucratic that only the cowboy landlord can make it pay ? I do hope not . by bring this Bill forward , the Government will inadvertently increase the rent that many of my constituent be pay . no doubt that will reduce the quality of the property , too . that can not be right . try to protect any increase in rent by allow only annual increase will no doubt result in landlord put up the rent each year . it make sense : that be what happen when the market be interfere with . yet , prior to the scheme come into effect , many landlord have allow good tenant to pay rent at the same rate , year on year . rolling tenancy give neither the landlord nor the tenant any security . to allow notice to be give from day one be , I be afraid , nothing short of ludicrous . I be not sure whether the Secretary of State have ever have to try and find new tenant . tidy up a property after the last tenant abscond be a job in itself , and then there be advertise the property , deal with score of viewing and deal with agreement , deposit scheme and so on . to go through all that and then allow a tenant to give notice on day one and leave after two month be , as I say , ludicrous . I can understand the attraction of an ombudsman and a database , but we must be realistic : this will only add cost . either that will be another reason for a landlord to quit the sector , or it will increase the tenant ' s rent . tenant should see that these proposal will end up cost they hundred of pound every month . I be sure the Government ' s intention be honourable , but the fact remain that although the Bill may initially look favourable to many , it simply be not . we should be careful not to follow the socialist path . many socialist policy look good for politician ; that be why they win election , but that failure to understand the market and basic economic be why they always end up bankrupt the country . conservative Members understand economic and want to do the right thing for the right reason , no matter how it look . that be the reason I be a Conservative . I ask the Government again to listen to the industry and to meet I once more . let we not do what that wise man Thomas Sowell say of politician , and disregard the first lesson of economic . the outcome will always be bad for those who can least afford it , which will be many of my constituent . the housing system be rig against renter . in Britain today , on average , private renter spend about a third of their income on rent — on property that be disproportionately in shoddy condition , where problem such as damp and mould be rife — and thing be get bad . rent have soar to record high and have go up 33 % outside London in the past four year . home in England be , on average , not only the small in Europe , but in the bad condition and among the least affordable . the right that renter have to live in these often overprice , overcrowded and unsafe home be pathetically weak . with a no - fault eviction notice hand to a private renter every three minute , many renter be force into homelessness . research show that renter be so worried about the risk of be evict that they often do not ask their landlord for vital repair or challenge grossly unfair rent hike . in my constituency , I recently have a case that highlight the need for strong renter ' right and the abolition of no - fault eviction . have live in her home for 15 year , Mandy and her two son be issue with a no - fault eviction , give they just two month to find a new home . as Mandy say , " the threat of eviction be so stressful . the thought of have to move my family into temporary accommodation away from our community have keep I up at night . " this be particularly difficult for one of her young son , who be disabled and have complex need . with the family on the brink of homelessness and bailiff turn up , the community tenant union ACORN step in and support Mandy and her family , which allow more time to find a new home . I be pleased to say that , with the eviction delay , they find a new home , but not everyone be so lucky . that be why no - fault eviction need to be ban . although on paper that be what the Bill say it will do , I share colleague ' concern . not only be the Bill fill with loophole , give unscrupulous landlord opportunity to get round the scrapping of no - fault eviction , but today it be reveal that the Government will indefinitely delay introduce the ban , promise that it will come into effect only after court reform have be implement — and who know when that will happen ? of course , this delay have be welcome by the landlord lobby — and no doubt by many landlord on the Government Benches . the Government promise a new deal for private renter , with quality , affordability and fairness at its heart , but this Bill be far too little , far too late . renter do not just need a real , watertight ban on no - fault eviction ; they need rent cap and an end to ever soar rent rise . they need an end to the Thatcherite right to buy and the privatisation of council home , which have see two third of council home sell off and almost half be buy up by private landlord , only to be lease out again at far high rent . renter also need a government - lead council house building programme to build hundred of thousand of high - quality new home — own by the council , obviously — every year . ultimately , we need a government who shift the balance away from bad landlord and big property developer , in favour of renter and working - class community . we have a mandate from the british people to deliver this Bill , and I know that pass it into law will be warmly welcome by renter in the 4 . 6 million household who be rent nationwide . support and fairness be what this Bill deliver , to both renter and landlord alike . last year , the English housing survey identify that 23 % of privately rent property do not meet the decent home standard . the consequence of unsafe rental property cost the NHS £ 340 million each year . I be sure that we can agree that this be an unnecessary cost , but it be make up of thousand upon thousand of individual story of miserable living condition . from day one in this job — and sadly , week in and week out — much of my casework have involve poor housing condition . resolve these issue give my caseworking team , Diana , Mollie and I , enormous satisfaction , but it be distress to hear of the health impact on vulnerable constituent . that be bring to the fore for all of we with the news at the beginning of the year of the death of two - year - old Awaab Ishak in Rochdale from respiratory issue cause by exposure to mould . I hope that we can all agree across the House that no family should suffer the loss of a child in that way . fear of eviction should not be a reason for not ask for repair to be do . since assure shorthold tenancy be introduce , renter have be offer no long - term security of tenure , and private landlord have be able to repossess their property without any establishment of wrongdoing by the tenant . however , that be not to say that many landlord do not do an excellent job in deliver good - quality housing and support to their tenant , while exercise their right properly and with good intention . the goal be to increase their number and for more landlord to follow their example . a large number of my constituent in Guildford have write to I in support of the Bill , for many reason , include the provision that will give tenant the right to request a pet in their property and enable landlord to require pet insurance to cover any damage . my constituent think that be a great idea . as a pet owner , I wholly agree with they . I have also be consider the issue of tenancy length , with student in Guildford in mind . there be some fundamental that we need to get right . landlord need full access to their property after term finish in the summer , to prepare they for their next tenant in the autumn . I be pleased that the Secretary of State give reassurance on student let in his opening speech . between 2010 and 2020 , the Conservative Government reduce the number of non - decent private rental home by 16 % . the Secretary of State think we can go far , and so do I . I see the impact of the lack of regulation in the private rent sector in my constituency every single week . in Dulwich and West Norwood , rent have be spiral for many year , and all too often the quality of accommodation fall way below what any tenant should be able to expect . I have in my constituency a landlord who own 90 home in a development call Dorchester Court . the landlord be on the Sunday Times rich list . their property be in an absolutely dire state . Wooden prop support the window frame . plastic sheet act as an ineffective shield against moisture penetrate the wall . the heating be unreliable in the winter . the water pipe be make from lead , which contaminate the water supply to a level that be not safe for human health . the council have be try for a number of year to take enforcement action against this landlord , but it have be wait many month for a court date . in the meantime , the same landlord have use section 21 eviction notice — in a way that , in my experience , be entirely common — simply to ratchet up rent . tenant be serve with a section 21 notice terminate the tenancy , alongside an offer of a new tenancy at a high level — often a significantly high level — of rent . if any Member doubt the need for additional regulation of the private rented sector , they should visit Dorchester Court in my constituency , and , in five minute , they will see how the regulatory framework be fail tenant across the country . section 8 allow for landlord to get their property back when they have a legitimate reason to do so . section 21 be a pernicious , destabilising force in the housing rental market and there be no place for it . the consequence of section 21 be more than simply contractual . they be find in poor mental health and anxiety , in increase homelessness and financial hardship , in child live in accommodation that no child should have to live in , and in child have to worry about the anxiety that their parent be experience because of the possibility of lose their home at any time . it be very disappointing that the Government be delay the ban on section 21 eviction by allow a loophole in this legislation . I sincerely hope that , in Committee , they will reconsider their position . I turn now to an amendment to the Bill that I plan to table . early this year , my constituent lose their son , a first year university student , to suicide — a devastating loss for any parent to bear . their son have sign a tenancy for his second - year accommodation and his parent have sign a guarantor agreement . after their son ' s death , they discover that the guarantor agreement apply even in the event of his death , and the let agent begin pursue they for the rent . it be rent for a tenancy that have not yet start and a tenancy that he would never take up . this be a shockingly punitive act against parent who be already suffer the bad possible loss . in extensive correspondence with the let agent on my constituent ' behalf , it refuse to budge , simply state that the rent be a contractual obligation and , although it be unfortunate , my constituent be bind to its term . I be grateful to the Minister for meet I to discuss the issue raise by this case . she have explain that the Bill will enable any tenant to terminate a tenancy with two month ' notice , but two month ' rent be a financial penalty that no bereaved guarantor should have to pay . this type of clause be not in every guarantor agreement , and it be not necessary . insurance policy can cover loss of rent in the event of the death of a tenant . I ask the Government to reconsider their position and , in Committee , to accept my amendment , which would straightforwardly outlaw the pursuit of guarantor for rent owe by a deceased tenant and stop any other family have to suffer this egregious additional pain , anxiety and hardship at a time of great sadness and vulnerability . listen to this debate , I be surprised that we be be accuse of dither and delay when 13 year of Labour government never produce a Bill such as this . however , that be for Labour Members to discuss and to wrestle with on their own term . I welcome the Bill and support its sentiment , but , as with all piece of legislation that pass through this place , the devil be in the detail . the Minister and the Secretary of State have a trifecta on their hand . they must reassure member in this place and in the House of Lords ; reassure tenant ; and reassure landlord , because , at the moment , I be not entirely sure that we be there . just as not all tenant be bad tenant , not all landlord be bad landlord . we must make sure that what we provide in the Bill today , in Committee and on Third Reading will reassure both tenant and landlord and take they with we . as many member have say , it be a balance act of ensure the right of property ownership along with the right of good , firm tenancy . I have three area on which to focus my remark . the first be the removal of fix term — follow the brilliant speech of my hon . friend the Member for Cheadle ( Mary Robinson ) , I shall also mention the unforeseen consequence , which she talk about . perhaps I can give an example . my constituency have one of the large second home and Airbnb market in the country . under the Government ' s proposal that tenant will be able to hand back a tenancy with a minimum of two month ' notice , someone could come down , pretend that they be go to rent a house on the long - term rental market , go there for June , July and August , and then hand back the tenancy . with this clause , we would completely obliterate the long - term rental market because people would take advantage of it as a short - term let market and then hand the property back . the disparity in price between the short - term let market and the long - term let market be unbelievably significant in south Devon . I hope that the Minister can reassure I on that point , because that be exactly what people will do . they will rent a house on the pretence that they will stay in it for a significant period , they will be there for the summer , and then they will give it back . that be what the clause allow . we have to ensure that the unforeseen consequence be address . unless the Minister can give I some reassurance , I worry deeply about what the long - term rental market will look like . at the moment , across south Devon only 70 home be available for people to rent . we do not demonise landlord without risk . we need to incentivise people to put their house into the long - term rental market so that they can provide that social value . that be exactly why the Country Land and Business Association have say that it think that the rural private housing sector be set to shrink , with 44 % of landlord either sell their property or change its usage class . my second point be about court reform . I be distinctly uneasy about vote for a Bill that do not come with enforcement and arbitration measure . we have be here before . it be all very well to give a brilliant speech in this place , and clip it and put it on YouTube or Instagram , but if we do not address the legal mechanism that be need to enforce the measure , we do our constituent a disservice . it be part of the process in this place , and it worry I that the Government be suggest that we vote blindly on a piece of legislation that do not have that enforcement mechanism in it . as I have say , the devil be in the detail , so perhaps the Minister could tell we what the timeline will be for the full creation of the court system or arbitration system . how quickly will we see judgment come along ? how will we look to expand the wording on antisocial behaviour , and what will the actual terminology be ? when consider a Bill a few year ago , we have a very vague term for the acceptable level of noise . the people who have to enforce that be the police . if we do not have specific in our law they end up be interpret , sometimes for the well but more often for the bad . again , I ask the Government to be clear about their law and language , so that we can ensure that the Bill be draft in the right way to help both tenant and landlord . I do not feel that this be particularly party political , or that many people from across the House would disagree with those point ; it be about have good law and good legislation , and we be all part of that system . my third point be about the social value of landlord . both the shadow Minister and the Secretary of State make exactly the same point : they express the value of landlord in the housing mix . we have to remember that , because without landlord out there provide house , our housing market would be a lot bad off . we therefore also have to ensure that under the right of property ownership , which this place have protect over the year in many different form , we be clear about the ground for eviction . I do not think that it be controversial to ask for eviction on the basis of a breach of contract , persistent late payment or damage to property . we have to be clear about those thing . no Member who have speak in the debate , which have be broadly co - operative , want people to be homeless or to live in bad housing , but we have to be absolutely clear about what we be ask of tenant and landlord . we have to provide reassurance and ensure that we be incentivise the long - term rental market . by the way , we could also look at reinstitute section 24 mortgage rate relief , but that may be a debate for another time . we have to ensure that we be not push house back into short - term let , that we be create a transparent legal system , and that we be look after the value of tenant and landlord in equal measure . as I say at the beginning , this framework be welcome , but unfortunately there be more work to be do . like my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , I begin by inform the House that I be a vice - president of the Local Government Association . I be also a parliamentary ambassador for PricedOut , the campaign for affordable housing . let we give credit where it be due : the Government deserve praise for bring the Bill forward at last . it have the potential to be transformational , bring renter much need additional security . however , if , as the Government statement on Friday seem to suggest , Ministers be plan to delay indefinitely introduce the ban on section 21 eviction , the Bill will be a huge miss opportunity . regardless of that issue , if the Bill be to reach its full potential , it must be strengthen significantly and its many outstanding loophole must be firmly closed . one such area of concern be notice period . as we have hear , the Bill retain a two - month notice period when tenant receive an eviction notice on the ground of landlord need . but with rent at their high level since record begin and housing in chronically short supply , it be , as Shelter have argue , almost impossible for many tenant to find a suitable property to move into in just eight short week . we must also remember in this debate that , accord to the charity Crisis , the loss of a private tenancy be the lead cause of homelessness in the UK . short notice period — along , of course , with no - fault eviction — contribute to that , result in a disastrous situation for the individual involve and huge expense for the taxpayer . I hope to hear from the Minister why she believe that two month be enough time for tenant to relocate in such a difficult housing market . I turn to fault - base eviction . I have significant concern , which I hope can be address during the passage of the Bill . one be ground 14 , which , as it stand , propose widen the definition of antisocial behaviour to cover any behaviour capable of cause nuisance or annoyance . Mr Deputy Speaker , every Member of this House have the capability to cause nuisance or annoyance — and many of we do it frequently in this Chamber . how on earth could we stop a rogue landlord from exploit such an extremely broad definition ? they could make a false claim about a tenant ' s capacity to cause antisocial behaviour and evict they simply to hike up the rent . protection must be build into the system to avoid section 21 eviction through the back door . what safeguard be in place specifically to stop victim of domestic abuse from face eviction on antisocial behaviour ground ? do we really want those who suffer at the hand of their abuser to lose their home as well ? there be much work to be do in this area . another reason for fault - base eviction , of course , be rent arrear . again , no one deny that such eviction can be reasonable in certain circumstance , but safeguard for the vulnerable be vital and a sensible balance be need . ground 8a mean that someone need to have be in two month ' worth of rent arrear for just one day on three occasion to be liable for eviction . as we all know from our own casework , rent arrear can arise for a variety of reason : unexpected bill , illness , redundancy . in a cost of living crisis , tenant could well find themselves fall foul of ground 8a through no fault of their own . I will be interested to hear from the Minister what assessment the Government have make of the impact of make ground 8a eviction discretionary rather than mandatory , so that , as in Scotland , the case would come before a judge who could evaluate whether the eviction be justify or a resolution between landlord and tenant could be find . that could help someone to stay in their home , protect they from the devastation of homelessness . the headline measure of the Bill should be the long - overdue ban on section 21 , but delay in the court system will hold up that important measure for some time . none the less , other potentially positive step include the propose introduction of a private rent sector ombudsman and a property portal to which landlord must be sign up . crucial to the effectiveness of those measure be the capacity of local authority to enforce they . that be a significant concern give the cut to local authority budget since 2010 and the resultant hollowing - out of non - statutory service . that be not the only area in which the capacity of local authority be a significant worry . the Local Government Association have raise specific concern about local authority ’ ability to enforce compliance with the ban on landlord re - let or remarkete their property within three month of use " landlord need " eviction ground , as it appear in practice that that system would be wholly reliant on former tenant notice that the property be back on the market after they have be evict . many landlord will surely chance their arm in that situation and put their property back on the market within the re - let period , so I encourage the Minister to consider whether that period should be long , and what step she might take to ensure that such a period be effectively monitor without tenant and former tenant have to put their head above the parapet and report a landlord who fail to comply with the law . notice period , fault - base eviction , the use of ground 14 , the rigidity of ground 8a — there be much work still to do on the Bill . I support it in principle , but I hope there be significant movement in Committee . let I first refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and declare that I be the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for renter and rental reform and be support by Generation Rent . it be almost hard to believe that the word " ban on no - fault eviction " will not be in the next Tory party manifesto . those word have be in queen ' s Speeches . the Tories have promise , but they have not deliver . now we know , of course , that that be because there be an almighty fight on the conservative Benches — a fight that be still go on by the sound of it . to all the dodgy landlord and vested interest watch this debate , I say that if they delay the Bill and its implementation far — as have be rumour today — the result will be rental reform at the very core of the next general election campaign , and when Labour be in government , legislation might well go even far beyond what some of those vest interest want . enough about the politic ; let we get down to the Bill itself . central to this legislation be the abolition of section 21 no - fault eviction , which have be the blight of renter for many year . the aim be to provide safe home that allow renter to establish root in the community and start family — that be lack at the moment . I be concern , however , that the vastly expand ground for eviction might undermine the very concept of the Bill . under schedule 1 , ground 1 and 1A remain no - fault clause . they be for the landlord move themselves in or sell . to prevent potential abuse of those ground , it be crucial that landlord provide unequivocal evidence of their intention , include through solicitor , agent ’ letter or swear statement to the court . after use those ground , landlord should submit another statement within 16 week of possession , for example . landlord who genuinely need to possess under those ground have nothing to lose in make such legal declaration , and the clause be useless without they . there may be legitimate circumstance in which a ground be no long relevant — someone might have be evict but the landlord no long want to sell the property or have a family member move in , for example . should that happen , reasonable compensation should be offer to the person who have be evict . it be not fair to use the ground and then say , " Whoopsie - daisy , I didn ' t realise that I couldn ' t sell . " there must be redress for the tenant who have be harm . ground 6 allow for an eviction when the landlord be find to be at fault . although I do not think that people who be unfit to be landlord should remain landlord , this ground penalise the tenant by discourage they from co - operate with enforcement action . as such , we need either compensation for any no - fault eviction , or an administrative mechanism that keep the tenant in the property but remove the landlord ' s day - to - day control for as long as that tenant wish to remain . ground 8 and 8a deal with tenant who be in arrear . while there be some protection for universal credit payment , there be no protection where the arrear be irregular under ground 8a . arrear might be repeat but very short , and the Domestic Abuse Housing Alliance have highlight the risk that this pose to victim of domestic abuse . the court need to have discretion ; these clause can not be mandatory . lastly , ground 14 be one I have raise with the Minister . we need to ensure that antisocial behaviour be not an excuse for a section 21 eviction by the back door . equally , the idea of a student eviction clause be very worrying ; the National Union of Students do not support it , and I do not see how it could be practically enforce . I would want to see that idea flesh out in Committee , or a pledge that it will be ditch . I welcome the Government ' s inclusion of two method of enforcement . the first be local government ; the second , which be more encouraging , be the ombudsperson . I be pleased that the Secretary of State have agree to look at merge the ombudsperson — we have too many at the moment — but we need to make sure that that ombudsperson have the authority to rectify matter in a timely manner , one that still allow people to go to the court if they wish to pursue that method of redress . it trouble I that the landlord ' s notice period have not be change from two month . in my view , that notice period should be four month , and importantly , tenant should have the flexibility to move out during a notice period : if a tenant be give notice and move out the next week , they should not be liable for two month ' worth of rent . that seem wrong to I . turn to protection period , tenant will have protection from eviction for the first six month of their tenancy . currently , they have six month after they sign each new assure shorthold tenancy , mean that long - term tenant might have few protection than they do at the moment . renter need to be protect : one proposal be to give they two year ' protection , which be a very good idea that we should explore in Committee . on rent increase , we must ensure that we do not face a wave of economic eviction . otherwise , what will happen be that the landlord will whack up the rent , and someone will have to move . the rental tribunal ' s decision be tie to market mean that an increase will be consider valid if the final rent align with market rate in local area . that be clearly unaffordable for the LHA rate , which be under 30 % — I remind colleague that in 2010 , that rate be 50 % . it have be decrease year after year , and we need to address that . the Bill be also in danger of fail to address the " no dss " benefit discrimination and the rampant guarantor discrimination that happen all the time in the rental sector , as well as affordability check , which be use as method of economic discrimination . those problem also need to be address in the Bill . I be a fan of the theory behind the property portal , but I fear that it might end up be like the bad landlord list , which never really work and be never enforce . I appreciate that there be fine for not register a property , but those fine should be pay to the tenant , as be the case with the deposit protection scheme . that would encourage tenant to make sure that their landlord be register — they would receive recompense if the landlord be not . we can not have local authority do all the checking : they just do not have the resource at the moment . we need everyone to be able to support these reform . my co - chair of the APPG on this subject be make some very important point . could he far develop the important principle of the tenant be compensate for some of the no - fault or other fine that he have mention ? I would love to , but we do not have much time . however , there need to be some discussion about what compensation someone will be give if they be no - fault evicted : for example , should they be give two month ' compensation , which could pay for a deposit and the first month ' s rent in their new property ? if the landlord have not register , and the tenant be then evict because their landlord have fail to be a good landlord — which be , of course , one of the ground — what compensation will that person receive , enable they to move into new , decent accommodation ? their money be tie up in the deposit and in have pay the rent . there need to be some serious thought about how we compensate tenant so that they can move on in the private rent sector . some people have also say that the property portal might be a back - door way of get rid of selective licencing , which would be a great mistake . the real story of these reform method be the work of ten of thousand of hard - work activist , advice worker , policy leader and organisation up and down this country , many of they in the Renters Reform Coalition , to which I give much praise . we be close to significant reform , but we must be vigilant . never a day go by without a constituent , or more than one constituent , contact I about problem they be have with their housing . in particular , my caseworker and I have be startle in recent month by the number of people come to we who have be serve with section 21 notice . I will give just one example . I be contact just a few week ago by a family in my constituency who have be serve both a section 21 notice and a section 13 notice of increase the rent . the son in the family have epilepsy , asthma and autism , and he attend a local school where he have an education , health and care plan in place . the family can not afford private rent , but with the social housing stock under so much pressure , they be terrify they would not find a home close enough to his school and to much - need family support . many of my other constituent ' story reflect this one — family with disabled member who be distraught at lose their home to landlord who be put up the rent , make they beyond their reach . these be just some of the 70 , 000 household that have be unfairly evict since the Government first promise that they would take forward this legislation . how many more of my constituent will be serve a section 21 notice before this legislation not only get on to the statute book , but become effective with the reform to the justice system and the court ? I have have so many constituent write to I ask we to press for this Bill to come forward , but I fear we will not have meet their expectation and their hope for the protection of tenant in the future , particularly in relation to section 21 . there be no doubt that pass the Bill into law will be a vital step forward , but it need to be effective as well . so the issue about the court need to be resolve as a matter of urgency , and I hope that the Minister will address those in her closing comment . I have some other serious reservation about how some of provision will work in practice . just on the issue of section 21 eviction , the new ground for landlord to reclaim possession make it clear that they will be ban from re - let their property only for three month after evict a tenant . the kind of rent increase we be see today may well mean that repossession be still well worth it for a landlord , I be afraid . furthermore , many of the family that come to I after receive a section 21 notice be currently able to receive priority assistance from the council due to their risk of homelessness , but this Bill appear to remove the right to immediate help if family be serve with a possession notice . in the absence of section 21 , we desperately need this right to assistance to be reinstate as the Bill pass through its many stage . move away from the specific issue of no - fault eviction , I be concern about the Government ' s u - turn on the promise they make in the White Paper to introduce a requirement that privately rent home meet the decent home standard . there be some discussion of this in the opening statement , but I would like further assurance from the Minister in her closing remark that the issue of decent standard , which be so much need in private rent housing , will be urgently address and bring forward in this Bill . early this year , I hear from a constituent renting from a private landlord who be leave without a cooker for three month of his tenancy , as well as have ongoing issue with his boiler and with rise damp , all of which he have attempt to take up with his landlord . we of course take up these issue locally to try to resolve the problem . in fact , he leave the property before they be resolve , leave the problem for the next tenant , as I understand it . however , at my constituent ' s request , I write to the Department on 8 August to ask what be be do to stop private landlord from leave family in home that be not up to standard , so he be sufficiently concern to see this as a policy issue , not just an issue for himself . unless council be give great enforcement power to tackle a wide range of standard breach , and the resource to deal with those in practical term , I be concerned that renter such as my constituent will not be protect from landlord who fail to fulfil their responsibility . my constituent have also be write to I about pet , and it be positive that there will be a right to request to have a pet . I hope that during the passage of the Bill we can define the phrase " unreasonably refuse " , or I fear that too many renter will find it to be a right in name but not in practice . the provision in the Bill be desperately need by my constituent and those of all hon . member . I urge the Government to end the dithering and delay in enable this Bill over the past five year . I also hope they will take the further step that so many member have identify and that be require to protect our constituent from homelessness and poor - quality housing . it be about time . it be nearly five year since promise be first make to tenant face soar rent , huge energy bill , cold and damp home , and limited right . we be now on our 15th Housing Minister since 2010 , and the Government be fast run out of time to make good on the promise in the Bill . unforgivably late though it be , the Bill be important and provide a genuine opportunity to move towards the most basic goal of create fair , green home . it be clear that the market have become over - commodifie and grossly distort . we have a generation who will never be able to earn enough to have a mortgage , and can not even afford their rent now . key worker be be force out of the place they work in , family uproot , child force to move school , revenge eviction for those who complain — the list go on . More people be become homeless follow rise eviction from the private rent sector . annual Government figure release recently show a 23 % increase in people at risk of homelessness because of a section 21 no - fault eviction . I welcome this delayed but essential Bill , not least because Brighton and Hove be one of the most expensive city to rent in outside London , with a large proportion of renter be rip off on a long - term basis with no end in sight . recent analysis show that in our city rent have jump by 47 % since 2011 , and wage have rise by 35 % . to put that another way , since 2011 , renter in Brighton and Hove pay £ 530 million more to landlord than if housing cost have match wage . there be some good principle and useful change in the Bill , such as measure on security of tenure , a new ombudsman and so on , but there be also glare loophole and big omission . in particular , the measure on rent increase be inadequate and rely on a resource - intensive and time - consume appeal process that could see tenant bad off at the end of it , as the tribunal process include a power to impose a high rent than the one the tenant be appeal . at the very least that power need to be remove . indeed , Ministers need to go far and get to grip with the fact that many people simply can not afford their rent as it stand . many of my constituent be pay massively more than 30 % of their gross monthly income on housing cost . that be unsustainable and we need a conversation about a national system for rent control with local flexibility . such a system will need to be both bold and implement gradually and fairly , introduce alongside a suite of policy to address the housing crisis , include a major increase in social house building and real support for community - lead housing . as well as tackle demand and sky - high rent , deal with insecurity of tenure be vital , so it be right that the Bill contain measure for periodic tenancy , and to ban section 21 no - fault eviction , and that student in the general PRS be also include . as many have say , it be deeply concern that last Friday the Government appear to have kick that part of the Bill down the road — who know how long for ? — by say that they first need to fix the mess that they have make of the court delay . we need to know exactly when we can expect that part of the Bill to come back . even before last Friday ' s attack on the section 21 provision , there have be noise about a possible government amendment to exclude student from the reform . I remind the Secretary of State of his own White Paper , in which he say : " it be important that student have the same opportunity to live in a secure home and challenge poor standard as other in the prs . " well , I agree with that . as well as ensure that student remain include , we need to firmly shut another glare loophole in the no - fault eviction ban . in the Bill , if a landlord seek to sell or to move in themselves , they can issue a no - fault eviction notice and the no - let period after they use that exemption be just three month . that be too short and could easily be abuse . for example , a landlord could evict tenant by say they want to move in and re - let just 12 week later . that no - let period should be nearer 12 month . good landlord genuinely use these exemption would have nothing to fear from that . I welcome the proposal for the portal , although I would like to see far more issue cover on it . that portal have real potential to improve enforcement of energy - efficiency standard and to ensure warm and dry home . I be dismay when the Prime Minister announce last month that he would be scrap the update minimum energy efficiency standard for private rent home under the pretext of save people from expensive upgrade . it be not hard - press tenant and family who will be require to upgrade their home , but the landlord who would no long be allow to rent out cold and inefficient home . private renter live in some of the leaky home in the UK , with more than a quarter of household live in fuel poverty . as the Climate Change Committee have observe , these regulation would have cut energy bill significantly — by around £ 325 a year on average at current price . minister need to stop this false dichotomy between climate action on the one hand and cost on the other , and admit that , in cut our emission , we can also deliver warm and more comfortable home . the Government need to bring forward an amendment in Committee to require all privately rent home to be energy performance certificate grade c by 2028 at the late . finally , we know that the UK ' s inadequate housing stock be erode not only people ' s budget , but their health and wellbeing . the death of two - year - old Awaab Ishak in 2020 as a result of prolonged exposure to mould in his home environment be a terrible tragedy and an utter scandal in the social housing sector . it be frankly shocking that the decent home standard still do not apply to private rent home , with the Government admit that almost one in four of those home in the private rent sector would not meet this most basic standard . the vague commitment for jam tomorrow while child breathe in dangerous mould today be simply not good enough . it be not good enough for the mum in Brighton who email to say that her daughter have be cough for two month because of the leaky , unsafe , insecure flat that she be desperate to leave . it be not good enough for my constituent who be ill from long - term exposure to mould , live with wall that be dripping wet and a permanent cough , or those whose rented accommodation be so bad that it be recently film by the BBC for their " Rip off Britain " feature . again and again in my constituency casework I hear about landlord who blame tenant for the problem cause by structural issue that the landlord have themselves ignore , such as the landlord who keep one family ' s £ 1 , 730 deposit to pay for mould removal and redecoration . that be frankly outrageous . will Ministers give we a timeframe for decent home legislation and confirm that it will be in the King ' s Speech next month ? will they explain how the Government can possibly justify fail to ensure that all landlord be compel to act on health hazard , such as damp and mould , in a timely manner ? will they act with urgency to apply Awaab ' s law to the private rent sector ? the right of renter be one of the big issue in Putney , Southfields and Roehampton , where the average rent for a two - bedroom flat be £ 3 , 900 a month . that be nearly £ 47 , 000 a year . have a safe , secure and affordable private rental property be vital for Londoners , but the current break system leave too many renter insecure and powerless if they have an unscrupulous landlord . for too long there have be a power imbalance in favour of landlord over tenant , which be abuse by bad landlord , and the Government have do nothing to fix that . this market failure affect teacher , nurse , doctor , police and prison officer that I have speak to . they find it very hard to live in south - west London under the current rental market , which make it hard to recruit into our public service . the effect of this market failure be spill out into all part of our life . I thank the London Renters Union , Generation Rent , Shelter , Crisis and the Renters Reform Coalition for their tireless campaign work to stand up for renter . it be appal that it have take so long to bring in this Bill . since the Government first announce that they would take this legislation forward , people in 70 , 000 household have be unfairly evict and threaten with homelessness because of the Government ' s delay . I welcome the measure in the Bill that I believe will make a real difference to renter and start to fix the broken system . I welcome : end all fix - term tenancy and replace they with periodic open - end tenancy ; the creation of an ombudsman that all private landlord must join ; the property portal database to well inform landlord and tenant ; the duty to provide information to tenant ; and the right to request a pet — the most british of right . but what I want to see most of all be the end of section 21 no - fault eviction , which be use by bad landlord to kick out tenant who ask for repair or to hike up rent unjustifiably . I be kick out of my own accommodation by a landlord who say he be go to sell off the property . after huge upheaval , I drive past a couple of month later to see that he have rent it out to different tenant . recent research from Citizens Advice find that a shocking 46 % of those who complain about their condition receive a section 21 notice within six month . that remind I of a family whose door I knock on , who be move out . they say , " goodbye — we be move out of the area . " their father , who be clear out the house with they , say he be absolutely furious . they be a policeman and a nurse , and they have to leave our area because they have complain about the poor state of repair of their house and have be serve with a section 21 . I think of another family with child age six , 12 and 15 who have spend the past four year in a flat that have be damaging to their health , suffer from structural damage , deep - rooted mould and a grow mouse infestation . they ask their landlord to carry out essential repair and be serve with a section 21 notice in return . one of my constituent be serve with a section 21 no - fault eviction notice on their house : a single parent to two vulnerable child with additional need whom she have adopt from care after be remove from a situation of domestic abuse . she could not afford to rent any other private property on her single income as she find they to be far too expensive . she have be leave to join the council waiting list and be render homeless . be that not exactly why we need to deal with this issue in the Bill ? we absolutely do . I very much welcome that intervention . we all have so many story and know so many family for whom the Bill and end section 21 eviction would make an enormous difference . it would also make for a more level playing field for those good landlord who be do the right thing . I be therefore appal that the Secretary of State be potentially pull the rug from under the Bill by say that no - fault eviction can only be end once the court be reform . that be conservative failure in the justice system compound conservative failure in housing . who lose out ? it be hard - work , rent - pay british people . I urge the Minister to give a clear timetable for put those legal reform in place so that the can be not just kick down the road . while I be pleased that the Bill set out new strict ground for eviction , I remain concerned that it do not go far , or fast , enough . first , the Bill have take too long ; the Government must speed up its delivery . about 290 Londoners face no - fault eviction each week , so every six month of delay in the Bill will mean another 15 , 000 more Londoners will face no - fault eviction . we do not have time . secondly , there should be a requirement that private rent home meet the decent home standard . I have be call for a Minister for mould for a long time . thirdly , provision to increase council ' investigative and enforcement power be necessary . there need to be fund for that as well ; otherwise , we be shift the problem from national to local government , which will need to shift around its resource and take funding from other area . fourthly , there be loophole that must be close . otherwise , section 21 could just continue by another name . unscrupulous landlord could game the system and exploit the new ground to sell an occupied property , so it be vital that a high level of evidence be require to demonstrate the intention to sell or occupy a property . the change to discretionary ground from " likely " to " capable " of cause antisocial behaviour be open to so many vary interpretation that it will lead to inconsistent , unfair application , so it will not be the game changer in get rid of antisocial behaviour that it could be . finally , prevent homelessness by preserve the private renter ' s right to access to homelessness assistance from their council as soon as a possession notice be serve would be an essential addition to the Bill . the Bill be a first step that only scratch the surface of what be need to fix the housing emergency that the Conservatives have create . mortgage bill and rent be soar , few people be able to buy their own home and more than a million people be stick on social housing waiting list , compound by the threat of no - fault eviction be they to move into the private rent sector . More home must be build . while the Government have promise a rebalancing of the relationship between tenant and landlord , unless we see several amendment , the current crisis look set to continue . the Bill be a good launching point , but Labour would significantly strengthen protection for private renter beyond its scope , so that good landlord can be assure of be on a level playing field , bad landlord will stop misuse their power and tenant will finally be able to get the long - term security , right and condition that they deserve . I call the ever - patient John McDonnell . as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and I know , always be call last mean that we have the enjoyment of listen to the whole debate . today ' s debate have be extremely valuable across the House , go into forensic detail on the Bill . I want to make a plea for urgency , that be all . I welcome the inclusion of this issue in the conservative manifesto . in fact , I congratulate my then constituency neighbour , the right hon . member for Uxbridge , on bring it forward . I also accuse he of plagiarism , because it be in our last two labour manifesto . I congratulate he because , as many have report today , my constituent be in a housing crisis . Most of the council housing have be sell off . to go on the housing waiting list , they must have live in the area for 10 year , and they have to prove that with documentation , which many people can not . once on the housing waiting list , they will wait between three and five , maybe seven , year . their child will have grow up by then . four thousand new property be be build in the middle of my constituency , but there be barely any that my constituent will be able to afford , because the price be so high and the wage in my constituency — despite high employment level — be relatively low . since 2010 , rent have go up on average by three time the rate of wage increase . in London alone , rent over the last year be up 15 % on average . in some area , they be up 20 % to 25 % . basically , that mean that people struggle to get a roof over their head , whether from the council or rent , and certainly struggle for owner occupation . I do not know any firefighter , teacher or NHS worker in my constituency who live there any more — they commute for mile because they can not afford accommodation in the constituency . People live in my constituency in slum condition : damp , cold , unsafe and mouldy , as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) . I have the phenomenon of bed in shed . in my office , we have a moral dilemma about whether we tell the council that someone be live in a shed , because we know that if we do , enforcement come in and that person be then homeless , with nowhere to go whatsoever . as have be say throughout the debate , as soon as people complain about the condition or rent , the landlord bring in section 21 . that be why it be right for the Conservatives to include the Bill in their last manifesto , and I welcome it . landlord always use the excuse that they be move in a relative . we would need genetic link mapping to identify the relationship between some of the tenant who move in and the family . landlord might say that they be sell the property but , as have be say , when we tour around , we see that in fact they have not : within day , the " to let " board go up . they scam we all the time . my constituent live in fear of complain at all because they know that if they do , many of they will lose their property . it be correct that the majority of landlord be good , but it be the rogue landlord that I fear the Bill do not address . do the right hon . Gentleman accept that , in London , part of the problem be that the amount of rental property available for new renter on the market be 20 % down ? it be important to encourage good landlord , as he talk about , to have long rental period . should we incentivise they to do that through thing such as tax break ? look , the major problem be that we be not build enough council house . on the conservative Benches a couple of member refer to Harold Macmillan . Harold Macmillan take on from Clem Attlee a huge housing programme and build council house . my family be a beneficiary of that . we move out of a slum and into a council house . we just need to build more council house . we can not rely on the private market , because it profiteer . in my constituency , landlord can make a profit by leave the property empty because the price will always go up , and sometimes they do not want to be encumber by a tenancy . when tenant complain , they get kick out and be make homeless . in my constituency , people have be push all around the country . I have people live in a Travelodge in Slough . they have to bring their child into Hayes each day , which take an hour and a half . then there be temporary accommodation with poor condition and hostel . we have child be bring up in temporary accommodation . I look at the figure : 131 , 000 child be now live in temporary accommodation . I fully support the Bill ' s get rid of section 21 , but the problem be exactly as my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) say . the sanction and condition will render it totally ineffective . landlord will simply take a three - month hit and then rent it out straight after that . and to rely on the court system ! we have to be honest with one another . the Government have close 300 county court . there be a cut of 35 % in the Justice budget over the last period . in addition , if we be look to local authority to enforce , nearly 20 local authority be under section 114 notice . in other word , they be bankrupt and do not have the staff to do the enforcement . to be frank , in many area now the lack of access to basic legal advice — not legal aid , but basic legal advice — from local law centre be non - existent . my citizen advice bureau , bless it , work so hard , but it be rush off its foot so it can not provide sufficient advice on the scale that be need . my plea be for urgency . we have have a really good debate , a forensic analysis of the Bill : the detail and the beneficial element , but also the gap and the need for change and amendment . I hope the Committee will , on Report , bring back a significantly amend Bill that will scrap section 21 — that be what both party promise in our manifesto at the last election , and I believe that other political party do exactly the same . there be unanimity in this House to scrap section 21 , but we must do it with a sense of urgency and we must do it effectively . I call the Opposition Front - Bench spokesman . it be a pleasure to close this second reading debate for the Opposition , and I thank all hon . and right hon . member who have speak in it . it have be a good debate and one define by a great many thoughtful and eloquent contribution . as my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) so rightly argue in her remark at the outset , this be a piece of legislation that be shamefully overdue . as she and other speaker point out , not only be it now over four and a half year since the Government first pledge to abolish section 21 no fault eviction , but , for reason that now appear quite clear , Ministers sit on the Bill for a further five month subsequent to its publication in May . draw attention to the lengthy delay in bring the Bill forward be not simply a parliamentary debating point . as many of my hon . friend , include my hon . friend the Members for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , for Liverpool , Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) , for Liverpool , West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) and for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) point out , it have have very real consequence for private renter across the country . during the year that Ministers prevaricate and the month this year they clearly spend negotiate with the discontented on their own Benches , ten of thousand of renter have be push to financial breaking point by multiple rent rise or threaten with homelessness as a result of be serve a section 21 notice . we will continue to justifiably bemoan the fact that the Government have not act with the urgency that be require , but we do welcome the Bill ' s finally progress . I want to take the opportunity to thank once again , on behalf of those on the Labour Benches , all organisation , particularly the 20 that comprise the Renters Reform Coalition , for not only make the case for change over many year , but for join Labour over recent month in urge Ministers to get on with the process of turn the Bill into law . the case for fundamentally reform the private rented sector be as watertight as they come , and Labour have call for it for many year . More than 11 million people in England — not just the young and the mobile but , now , many old people and family with child — live day in , day out with the knowledge that they could be uproot from their home with little notice and minimal justification , and a significant minority of they be force to live in substandard property for fear that a complaint would lead to an instant retaliatory eviction . such a situation can not possibly be justify . the sector should have be transform a long time ago . its regulation should have be overhaul to level the play field between landlord and tenant decisively . the Bill be a good starting point to that end , and , as the debate have make clear , the principle of it enjoy broad support across the House . general support have be express today for the White Paper proposal that have find their way into it , include a new property portal and ombudsman , a simple tenancy structure , the end of rent review clause , prohibition on multiple in - year rent increase , the right to request keep a pet , and , of course , the abolition of section 21 notice . however , as nearly all Opposition Members mention , a significant degree of uncertainty now surround the implementation of the promise section 21 abolition as a result of a concession make by minister to appease a minority of disgruntle conservative Members — seemingly without complete success , give the tone and content of the contribution of the right hon . member for Calder Valley ( Craig Whittaker ) and for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) and the hon . member for Yeovil ( Mr Fysh ) and for Don Valley ( Nick Fletcher ) . as we have hear , the Government have make it clear in recent day — although it would seem that member be tell two week ago — that section 21 notice will not be phase out until Ministers judge that " sufficient progress have be make to improve the court . " explicit reference be make to end - to - end digitisation of the process , which could well take a great many year to achieve . private renter across the country , who have be assure repeatedly by Ministers that the passage of this Bill will finally remove the threat of a section 21 eviction , have no guarantee whatsoever that the concession make do not amount to an effective deferral of that change well beyond the phase transition already provide for by the Bill . if this sound all too familiar , that be because it be . the Secretary of State have form when it come to acquiesce in damage concession rather than face down the unruly Benches behind he , with future housing supply in England a notable past casualty . after 13 year of Tory government , the court system be on its knee . the Government have have more than four and a half year , since they commit themselves to abolish section 21 eviction , to make significant improvement to it in order to support good - faith landlord , and they have not succeed . as thing stand , HMCTS do not expect to be able to deliver even the reduce - scope reform programme to its current timetable . give this Government ' s record , why on earth should renter take it on trust that thing will improve markedly any time soon ? the inefficiency of the court system be a huge problem , and action must be take to address its lack of capacity so that landlord possession claim can be expedite , but the end of no - fault eviction can not be make dependent on an unspecified degree of future progress subjectively determine by Ministers . in the absence of very clear commitment from the Minister on metric and timeline in this respect , we will seek to amend the Bill in Committee to ensure that it be not . while Ministers face the prospect of have to give further ground as the Bill progress to keep their Back Benchers onside , Labour will work in Committee to see it strengthen so that it truly deliver for tenant . we will press for clarification of the new ground for possession for student ' landlord to ensure that they be not too expansive , and will probe the Government ' s intention in respect of deal with the complexity of the student market . my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central ( Paul Blomfield ) and the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , rightly call for that . we will put forward a number of sensible change , include an increase in the propose notice period from two month to four month to protect renter well . I be pleased that my hon . friend the Members for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) and for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) argue for that . we will press the Government to reconsider their position on a range of White Paper proposal that do not make it into the Bill . they include measure to strengthen council ' enforcement power — I thank my hon . friend the Members for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) and for Blaydon for raise that point — along with power to limit the amount of advance rent that landlord can ask for , and provision to expand rent repayment order to cover repayment for non - decent home . we will explore why essential reform that be outline in the White Paper , include the propose legally bind decent home standard and the propose ban on landlord refuse to rent to those in receipt of benefit or with child — a point powerfully make by my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East — be not on the face of the Bill . we will explore what more might be do to ensure that the separate measure that have be promise to enact each of those reform be pass and apply quickly and effectively . we will also look to amend various provision in the Bill relate to new and revised ground for possession , include the far too sweeping and punitive propose new mandatory ground 8a and the propose change to discretionary ground 14 relate to antisocial behaviour , so that blameless and vulnerable tenant be properly safeguard . perhaps most importantly , we will seek to close the numerous loophole in the Bill that would allow the minority of disreputable landlord — such as the unscrupulous owner of Dorchester Court mention in the powerful contribution of my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) — to exploit tenant and jeopardise their security of tenure . let we take two example that be feature prominently in the Bill . even with the propose expand right to challenge , it be far from clear that the tribunal system would prevent significant number of tenant from be evict by mean of an extortionate rent hike . we need to explore what more can be do to put in place genuinely effective mean of redress for they . similarly , the propose three - month ban on landlord re - let property they have take back to sell or move into themselves be not only insufficient but appear not to apply in some circumstance and will almost certainly be impossible to enforce even when it do . we need to tighten it . the Bill be shamefully overdue but imperative . we support it in principle and be pleased that it will progress today , but it need to be enhance rather than undermine by concession aim at placate a minority of member . private renter deserve a piece of legislation that will ensure that they have real security and enjoy well right and condition in short order . we be willing to work constructively with the Government on the Bill , but make no mistake , we plan to do everything in our power to see it strengthen to the benefit of private renter who have wait long enough for meaningful change . it be a huge pleasure to deliver the closing speech today on the Second reading of the Government ' s Renters ( Reform ) Bill , and I begin by thank member across the House for their valuable , thoughtful and knowledgeable contribution to the debate . I have enjoy and note the contribution from my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) , the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) — the Chair of the Select Committee — my right hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Craig Whittaker ) , the hon . member for Westminster North ( Ms Buck ) , my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Ben Everitt ) , whom I thank for all his work across a range of all - party parliamentary group , the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) , my hon . friend the Member for Cheadle ( Mary Robinson ) , the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Paul Blomfield ) — I would be very happy to meet he and his APPG — and my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) , who will know about all the work we be do to help address the second home issue in his constituency . he have speak to I about that on a number of occasion . I also thank the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) for the support from the Liberal Democrat Front Bench . I declare an interest similar to that of my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , as I have four child in their 20 who be rent in London . I know at first hand of the issue that they and their friend face , and that be why I be so convinced that this Bill be the right thing to do for the next generation of our child and grandchild . the Minister ' s child be in their 20 , but we want to make sure that they be not in their 30 before the Bill actually come into effect , so will she give we a clear time when the court will be ready for the Bill to be active in the Government ' s view ? I will come on to that precise point , if the hon . Member will allow I . I want to thank the hon . member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) , my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Sir Robert Syms ) , the hon . member for Liverpool , West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) and my hon . friend the Member for Don Valley ( Nick Fletcher ) , whom I will be happy to meet again , as request . I also thank the hon . member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) , my hon . friend the Member for Guildford ( Angela Richardson ) and the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) . I be deeply concerned about the case she have raise with I and will continue to work with she . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) , the hon . member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) , for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) , for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) , for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) and for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , and the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) . it be right to say at this point that we be commit to honour the manifesto commitment that we make in 2019 to create a private rent sector that work for everyone and to level up housing quality in this country . I be grateful to all hon . and right hon . member who continue to engage constructively with we on the provision in the Bill so that we can deliver the change need to create a fairer rental market for both tenant and landlord . of course , I echo the sentiment of my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , who say in his opening remark that we will continue to work closely with member to further hone and refine this legislation as it be put on the statute book . rise — I will make progress , because I have limit time and I must address the point that have be put to I . first , it be right that antisocial behaviour be a discretionary ground . judge must decide on the circumstance of a case . have formerly be Minister with responsibility for safeguarding and domestic abuse , I completely understand the importance of take such serious issue into account and strike the right balance between tenant and landlord . I be ask whether local authority will have funding to carry out their enforcement duty . of course they will have that new burden funding , as they would with any Government legislation . I be ask about blanket ban on benefit claimant and family with child , and I make it very clear that we be commit to outlaw the unacceptable practice of such blanket ban . we be carefully consider how to get these measure right . this be a significant reform , as I think all member understand . we must do it in the right way , while ensure that landlord rightly have the final say on who they rent their property to . will the Minister give way ? I will give way to member if I have time , but please allow I to make my point . there have be many question about the ombudsman . we need simplicity and clarity for landlord and tenant . it be important to say that this Bill do not , in itself , establish a new ombudsman . an exist ombudsman could do the job and , again , we be look at that very carefully to make sure we get the right solution for this vital part of our regulatory reform . I be grateful that many member have welcome the point about pet , and I agree that we be a nation of animal lover . again , this be about reasonableness . my hon . friend the Member for Cheadle be exactly right — the circumstance she set out would constitute a reasonable ground for refusal , but we need to look carefully at how this work . the decent home standard have be raise again , and it be a key part of our reform . we must make sure that the new system we introduce mean people be live in decent , safe and warm home . everyone in this House will be under no illusion about how importantly this Government take this issue , as they can see the work that have be introduce by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to tackle these issue , which have lay unresolved for many year . this Government bring in groundbreake reform in the social rent sector , and we will do so in the private rent sector to give tenant the same protection . it be important to note at this point that the vast majority of possession claim do not end up in the court — only something like 1 % of claim go through the court . in my capacity as Housing Minister , I work closely with the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , who be responsible for his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service . there be a wide - range programme of reform in the court system . the court have already make huge improvement . it be worth say that over 95 % of hearing be list within four to eight week of receipt , and of course the ombudsman will encourage the early dispute resolution process , take a lot of claim out of the court and free up court time for more complex process . when we bring in this reform , however , it be right that we ensure landlord have confidence in the justice system because , as everybody have point out , if we do not have good landlord in this country who have confidence in the system that underpin the justice system , we will not have the rent home in every constituency that our country need . we have always commit to align and synchronise the reform of the private rent sector with the court system ; we note that that be a recommendation of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee . we do not think that a housing court be the right way to do that ; nor be that the view of the sector or of the stakeholder , with whom we have engage in huge detail . this work remain a priority for our Department and for the Ministry of Justice . we want to see landlord be offer a digital process for possession on all ground . if the Bill ' s Second reading receive widespread support because it will rightly ditch no - fault eviction of tenant without trigger an exodus of private sector landlord , that will in no small part be down to the hard work , for which I be very grateful , of Ministers include my hon . friend . while she be look at what be a reasonable speed to resolve antisocial behaviour claim in the court , will she confirm that it be the Government ' s firm intention to fulfil our manifesto commitment and implement the Bill as soon as possible ? I thank my hon . friend very much . I can absolutely give he that assurance . do the Minister accept that if the Country Land and Business Association ' s estimate be correct that the Bill may reduce the available private rental by 40 % in rural area , that could have a completely deleterious effect on the Prime Minister ' s main pledge , which be to get inflation down ? core inflation be drive by rental . will the Minister work with I to fix the Bill and ensure that that do not eventuate ? I be very happy to work with my hon . friend on this and many other issue , but it be important that I say that we have do considerable analysis . there be no evidence , such as the estimate that he have just point to , that the Bill will lead to landlord leave the sector , but it be right that any policy that the Government bring in be base on evidence . that will always be our approach . will the Minister give way ? I want to wind up now , because I can not detain the House any long . I assure right hon . and hon . member that we be focus on introduce this groundbreaking once - in - a - generation reform . I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . renter ( Reform ) Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Renters ( Reform ) bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Tuesday 5 December 2023 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) question agree to . Renters ( Reform ) Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( a ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State ; and ( b ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) question agree to . Renters ( Reform ) Bill ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise : ( 1 ) the charging of fee under or by virtue of the Act ; and ( 2 ) the payment of sum into the Consolidated Fund . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) question agree to . Renters ( Reform ) Bill ( carry - over ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 80a ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that if , at the conclusion of this Session of Parliament , proceeding on the Renters ( Reform ) Bill have not be complete , they shall be resume in the next Session . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) question agree to . Petition Petition - the Kytes Regeneration Project I rise to present this petition to reflect concern raise with I on behalf of Kytes Drive resident . give the substantial regeneration project on the Kytes Drive estate in Watford , resident request that Anchor Hanover reintroduce the previous covenant to provide a legally bind reassurance to ensure that veteran will continue to be house in the new home ; and that it extend this to provide protection to those with disability and to the elderly . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage Anchor Hanover to engage with the council and include a legally bind agreement that the Kytes Estate include purpose - build and well - maintain accommodation to house people over the age of 55 , those with disability , and veteran and their family . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the protection to house veteran with disability at Kytes Drive have be remove ; far that a legally bind covenant should be include into the Kytes Regeneration Project to ensure that new home to be build will continue to only house veteran , those with disability and the elderly , and their family . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage Anchor Hanover to engage with the Council and include a legally bind agreement ensure that Kytes Estate include purpose - build and well - maintain rent accommodation to house people over the age of 55 , those with disability , and veteran , and their family . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ P002865 ] Environmental , Social and Governance Developments Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) as the found chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on environmental , social and governance , I be delighted to have secure the first ever debate on environmental , social and governance development in the UK in this place . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and to the all - party group ' s interest as well . ESG be a set of characteristic that can be use to assess the non - financial element of an investment or business decision . in its simple form , ESG be a way to take into account potential risk and reward that might not be obvious from a balance sheet . everyone , in their own way , incorporate ESG criterion into each and every economic decision , even if unknowingly . for instance , the property developer do not buy land next to a crumble cliff ; a family might choose not to go to a particular shop because they have hear that it treat its employee badly ; or a woman might change job to work for a firm that be fight the gender pay gap . ESG be simply the use of non - financial criterion in decision making — a way for investor , company and individual to get a big picture of the impact of their investment , which will help they well understand the risk and , more importantly , the reward . recently , there have be much debate about ESG , as it have rise in prominence . the number of ESG asset under management have grow by more than 150 % since 2015 , with global ESG asset expect to exceed £ 41 trillion or about four time the value of all the asset hold in the UK . they will also account for a third of all asset under management by 2025 . this scale - up have be meet with some concern about ESG perhaps have some underlying political current . this be wrong . in its true form , ESG be simply an investment strategy — one that , like all investment strategy , aspire to low risk and high return . ESG be not a political stance , a way of life or a mantra for investor , although of course in some situation it be unfortunately use wrongly to pursue certain political agenda . in other , it be see as shorthand for ethical or impact investing . however , it be neither . in this debate , I will be stick to our definition of ESG as an investment strategy and hope to make the case to Government for why we should be encourage it , what problem we have to overcome and how good to claim the crown , and the associated benefit , as the world leader of ESG invest . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . do he agree that if we create a science - base and world - beat taxonomy , business that can show alignment with the UK green taxonomy will automatically be in alignment with international taxonomy , which should ensure that there be no divergence , which should subsequently enhance our capacity ? do he far agree that Government and the Minister have a role to play in assist business to achieve that potential , so that all of we in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland can gain and everybody can be a winner ? I thank the hon . member for intervene ; it be always a pleasure when he join such debate . he mention the Minister , who I know have a good , keen , personal interest in ESG , have work in the field prior to come to this place . the hon . member be completely right about the green taxonomy . we need a robust taxonomy — I will come to that later — but it be a shame that we be behind where we should be with the green taxonomy . we need to be careful to ensure that our green taxonomy be robust and world lead . one of the many benefit of leave the European Union be that we can define what we want and how we want it ourselves . by have a UK green taxonomy , we can ensure that we be world leader in the UK , include in Northern Ireland especially , which I know have a high level of financial service . let I go back to the meat of my speech . it be not the case that those invest along ESG line do not want to see good do for planet and people — they do . for example , we know that ESG investor be sometimes willing to pay high fee and to see low return than their more return - focus peer . the Wall Street Journal report early this year that ESG fund could charge up to three time more . I do not exclude those type of company and investor from this discussion . rather , in hold the first ever debate on ESG in the House , I hope that more discourse will lead to more action . it be clear that use non - financial metric , and thereby factor in all the datum available to make the most rational , informed investment decision possible , will lead to financial return . for example , more ESG - align employer will be able to hire well candidate for less — something know as take a green cut , which be the attitude that up to 48 % of young people be recently report as take . equally , improve environmental rating through technology can lead to huge efficiency saving for company . for example , some study have show that use low - energy lighting have a payback of less than 12 month , which be a win for the company ' s bottom line and its sustainability standard . this reflexive impact of ESG be know as " double materiality " , which be how a business be affect by change condition — be they climate , social , or governance — and what that company be do to contribute to or militate against those change . that be become more and more important for investor to factor in . there be also huge financial benefit to be gain from embrace ESG for the whole country , include Northern Ireland . the UK be already home to the old and most trust conventional financial centre . that be couple with the City of London ' s commitment to sustainability , top the Global Green Finance Index . therefore , with a little extra effect , we will secure a home for ESG investor inside our border . ESG ' s recent rise in popularity have cause some grow pain . primarily , the lack of universal framework and metric mean that trust in ESG be at an all - time low , as we have see in anti - ESG proposal approve by board globally . in ESG investing , as in all business , trust be paramount . just as an investor must be sure that their investment be sound , and that they will not suddenly find themselves out of pocket , an ESG investor need to be sure that any claim to sustainability be true . we have a rich history of account for financial accuracy in this country , with the Domesday Book perhaps be the early example — in that case , the new , or relatively new , King William check that his investment be as profitable as he have think . that invasion of 1066 do not come cheap . it take 800 year , and a parliamentary Select Committee to develop something close to modern accountancy practice , but the UK be now an oasis of bookkeeping and verifiable invest . fraudulent financial claim can be easily spot and shut down . why then , be the same not the case for fraudulent ESG claim ? one of the main cause of the problem be that much of what ESG seek to account for be intangible and therefore incalculable with our current framework . how , for example , might a company begin to calculate its effect on biodiversity ? what metric can an investor look for to see an investment ' s diversity score ? this problem be not insurmountable . twenty year ago , as major economy be wake up to the true effect of increase carbon emission and climate change , the issue of how to count carbon seem similarly difficult . today , after much trial and error and leadership from the UK , we can quickly and easily calculate the carbon footprint of any business , person , or product . develop framework to help business understand , quantify and account for non - financial factor be difficult but very important . proper framework be the first line of defence against a full breakdown in trust in ESG report and investing . they will also help to stop so - call greenwashing , where a product or investment be market as be more sustainable than it be . despite the name , this apply across all three ESG objective . such distrust be make bad by some ESG adviser and rating agency , whose business plan seem to depend on be able to sell five - star ESG rating to the high bidder , without give any proof of they whatever — a veritable wild west of the ESG world . of course , many of these business be do comprehensive evaluation of the product , but give the difficulty that an investor would have in distinguish the good rating from the bad , it be hardly the confidence - inspire boost that they need . I know that the Treasury be well aware of the concern , and I be pleased that there be a consultation hold early this year on how good to introduce regulation on ESG rating . this be a good and necessary step , but we be in danger of win the battle but lose the war if we delay any far . I urge the Minister to speed up this regulation as much as possible . we can go far than regulation , however , and set up the framework we need to allow any investor or company to understand quickly and easily the ESG impact of their investment . a taxonomy — essentially a classification of what be and what be not allow — would do just that , and the Treasury ' s plan to develop a UK green taxonomy be exactly the right step . this taxonomy , as well as its social and governance cousin , would clearly outline investment that be sustainable — and therefore could be market as such — and those that be not . give that the EU ' s version of a green taxonomy be dead in the water — it be a bureaucratic nightmare that be no long fit for purpose — we can make our own decision here . we be lucky that , thank to Brexit , we have be give the chance to design our own robust taxonomy , one that could and should lead the world and entrench the UK as the true home of sustainable finance . sadly , we have see our taxonomy delay and delay and delay . I be pleased to see the UK green taxonomy mention in this year ' s green finance strategy update , but on the original timeline we should already be halfway through the legislative process by now . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) I be not sure whether the hon . Gentleman be aware , but one of the arcane practice be that because the Adjournment debate start before 10 o ' clock , we have to move the motion again at 10 . the hon . Gentleman have the Floor . thank you for that guidance , Mr Deputy Speaker , and for explain some of the wonderful aspect of this House . I ask the Minister whether he will ensure that investor have a framework to separate the sustainable from the spurious , and whether he will take this chance to outline the full timetable for the taxonomy . he will have plenty of time to do so , as we have more time for this Adjournment debate . I look forward to a full and detailed timeline of when we will get this taxonomy . I be willing for he to intervene now if he so wish . clearly he do not . perhaps another , less discuss difficulty face ESG be imbalance . the heavy focus have be on environmental consideration as be the most important , often at the cost of social and governance factor . let I refer to one recent example of the consequence of fail to take that holistic approach . Dame Alison Rose be clearly a champion for socially sustainable business , particularly around gender equality . she be a torchbearer for woman in business , have smash the glass ceiling to become the first woman to lead a major UK bank . however , despite her very strong credential in social sustainability and the progressive environmental policy of NatWest Group as a whole , under her leadership there be a clear failure in governance when discuss a customer ' s private banking detail with a journalist — I think that we all know the gentleman I be refer to . I be sure that all member will agree that it be right that Dame Alison resign over that abject failure of governance , but I also know that many will join I in express our disappointment that the further empowering of woman in business and entrepreneurship will suffer because of that failure of governance . excel in one area do not absolve someone from indiscretion in other . the E , S and G can not and should not be separate ; a failure in one be a failure in they all . clear metric and framework , both within each strand of ESG and encompass all three element , will allow for well reporting and therefore well understanding for investor and company . that will , in turn , return the trust that ESG have be lack . it be easy to oversimplify the true impact of more datum and disclosure , and we can not ignore the practical implication of such policy , particularly on small business and individual investor . since the turn of the millennium there have be a 647 % increase in ESG regulation , alongside mile of other red tape in all shape and size . the disclosure burden on investor and business be big than at any previous point , lead to whole sector and team devote to audit every aspect of a business . the EU ' s own research indicate that its disclosure requirement will cost large firm upwards of € 100 , 000 a year in paperwork alone . likewise , the UK green taxonomy , when it be eventually publish , will join about 30 other environmentally focus taxonomy across the globe , each need different type of disclosure . large company may be able to absorb that , but it be a potentially lethal issue for small and medium - sized enterprise , which make up 99 % of british business and have a far more limited staffing and budgetary ability to process those type of disclosure . in push for more comprehensive reporting framework , we should not bury small business under pile of paperwork . over the course of my time chair the all - party parliamentary group , I have be delighted to meet many small business that want to integrate ESG into their practice . many of they , however , have express to I their nerve about how to keep up with a continually change regulatory landscape , and the addition of further disclosure hang like a dark cloud , so how do we achieve well ESG report without overburden business and , perhaps more importantly for those business , why should they engage in this space ? how do we make ESG work for business rather than make business work for ESG ? in this debate , I have mostly speak about ESG as a risk management tool that investor can use as part of their normal investment analysis . there be , however , many upside for both business and the UK as a whole . I have already outline how a business might utilise ESG to increase efficiency or improve its workforce . for the UK as a whole , though , sme be the perfect vehicle for public policy objective to be achieve without the need for public sector financing or burdensome legislation . the all - party parliamentary group ' s late report — on woman in business , to be publish tomorrow — be perhaps a good example . it be a sad fact that woman be still under - represent in business today . that be not only a social problem ; it also represent a £ 250 billion gap in our economy . luckily , as in other area , the private sector be far ahead of policymaker here . thank to private firm and independent group , the UK have one of the high level of female representation on board in the world ; it be beat only by country that have legislate to force company to adhere to quota . top - down government can make serious stride , but the home straight will always require we to rely on great british business . we can not let they down . ESG add value to business , but it can not become a barrier . many member will , like I , have hear concern report about some company , particularly those involve in defence , be exclude from access to investment and capital on ESG ground . as the Government ' s defence Command Paper point out , there be no contradiction between invest along ESG principle and the defence industry . I have already speak about the concern anti - ESG movement , much of it stem from the view that a movement for divestment in such contentious business be because of a political stance . again , I argue that that be a mischaracterisation of ESG . instead , and like the Government , I believe that ESG allow investor to factor in the environmental , social and governance impact of these firm into their decision - make process and help firm to take action that will result in well return . these factor should not be unduly take out of context for political reason . government need to create an environment where business can disclose problem area without the fear of backlash , so long as they be responsible . good investor can be a drive force behind company clean up their act . we must continue to ensure that all business have access to the capital they need from reputable , interested investor . we have see continue protest as part of an environmental campaign , call for business to divest away from oil and gas . but that would actually be detrimental to the world ' s overall climate ambition . once contentious industry such as oil and gas , defence , tobacco or alcohol can no long rely on investment from large , public company that be open and clear about their business ethos , they will most likely leverage finance from less savoury investor . it be in our interest to engage , not divest , and make sure that trust investor retain a hand on the wheel of these industry , to steer they to a more sustainable and well future . the issue be not just about a handful of industry . when face with challenge that may bring public and investor backlash , all firm need to feel secure that they be able to disclose bad practice and work to rectify they , rather than quietly divest of the malpractice . I will give one example : the International Labour Organisation estimate that there be nearly 50 million modern slave across the world today . it be almost impossible , therefore , for any large company not to use modern slavery at some point in its supply chain . as much as 20 % of worldwide cotton production stem from slave - labour — member in the Chamber today could be wear slave - manufacture clothing . what should a responsible clothing business do if it discover that it have be accidentally buy slavery - produce good ? should it quietly switch supplier and hope that the next one do not have the same problem , or should it work with the supply chain to end the practice of slavery ? Divestment for fear of repercussion will not solve environmental , social or governance problem , and company should not be penalise for bring accidental wrongdoing to light . make ESG work for business require that they should be able to show investor what they be do to tackle poor business practice without fear that they will be leave without access to capital . the framework we build must include room for transitional sustainability improvement , allow investor and company to own up to their failing and work to improve they , rather than divest and pass the problem along . have outline why we should be encourage ESG , what problem we face in do so and how it can help business , investor and the UK as a whole , we must now ask what real action we can take to achieve this . I have in this debate refer consistently to framework or metric , which will give certainty and clarity , but what form should they take ? any framework need to be credible , useable and , importantly , international . what be more , we need to act quickly to ensure that the UK be the go - to place for ESG . will the Minister be sure to look into speed up the publication of framework and regulation design to restore trust in ESG ? the importance of credibility in a framework be confirm by the EU ' s recent green taxonomy failure . as member will know , the EU decide to include natural gas in its green taxonomy , effectively allow any product use energy derive from fossil fuel to claim it be " green . " that be perhaps the most serious and egregious example of greenwashe , and it completely undermine any pretence that the EU ' s taxonomy can be rely upon to build the trust that I have be so clear we need . our own framework , and certainly our own green taxonomy , must not have the same problem . can the Minister assure I that any framework will be science - lead , and that ensure trust will be a key consideration in the design of those framework ? we may be delay in our green taxonomy , so ours may not be the first , but let we make it the good . let we learn from the mistake make by other country so that the UK be the gold standard . go far , if the UK be to be the ultimate home for ESG , we need to create metric for ESG criterion that be currently unquantifiable . much of the work that have already take place have go into flesh out area with exist datum , but in order to ensure that greenwashing can not happen across any element of ESG , we need to drive forward progress on create standardised metric for area such as biodiversity , community impact , management structure and so much more . to ensure that the UK be truly world - lead , will the Minister be sure to speak to his colleague at the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Department for Work and Pensions to create cross - governmental taskforce that will be able to create those type of framework ? usability be also vital . as I have mention , particularly in reference to sme , burden investor and business with extra regulation should not be the objective of any government , let alone a robust conservative Government . any framework must allow for company to disclose failure and work hard to redeem themselves . company ' work to achieve well result should be what they be judge by , rather than their failure . to encourage business to use ESG to their advantage along the line that I have describe , and so that the UK can leverage the firepower provide by our booming private sector , will the Minister ensure that make the UK an ESG hub will not have negative impact on business and investor ? we must look after sme . today ' s supply chain , employee and financial flow span the world . it be our duty as policymaker to help british business and investor benefit from be part of the global economy . when it come to ESG , that will mean work with the framework of our international partner and use our Brexit freedom to design a system that allow for international co - operation . the Government ' s signal early this year that we will be adopt wholesale the international financial reporting standard create by the International Sustainability Standards Board be a great start and will ensure that we remain international player , but I want we to be international leader , especially as the EU will continue to build its own full disclosure system . can the Minister confirm that we will continue along this path whenever possible ? ESG be not go away , and the UK should not be concern about or discourage of it . I must again pay tribute to the Government for already be proactive in create a welcome environment for ESG , of which I know the Chancellor be already a keen advocate , but if we be to become the global home for ESG , we must move fast and do ever more . I hope that this place see many more debate on the topic , and that we continue to open line of communication and inquiry on one of the fast grow sector across the UK . as a home for ESG , we have strong foundation , but before we can fully welcome ESG inside , we must make sure that the structure be solid , or it risk total collapse . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Rother Valley ( Alexander Stafford ) on secure the debate , not least because , amazingly , it be the House ' s first dedicated debate on this subject , which be remarkable — it will certainly not be the last . I know that he care a great deal about this subject , not only as the chair of the APPG on ESG , but from his career . he speak with great authority and knowledge of the subject , and I be grateful to he for the opportunity to set out the Government ' s position on the important issue that he raise . my hon . friend will be aware of our steadfast commitment , enshrine in law , to reach net zero greenhouse gas emission by the year 2050 . we already lead the world on tackle climate change : we have decarbonise fast than any other major economy since 1990 , reduce our emission by nearly half while grow our economy by some two third . renewable have go from less than 7 % of our electricity supply in 2010 to 48 % in the first quarter of this year , which be fantastic progress . however , as the Prime Minister have say recently , we will not stop there . the Chancellor have set out his view that the UK ' s green industry be key to create growth across this United Kingdom and our whole economy , and the Prime Minister ' s announcement have outline how the Government be work to unblock key barrier to investment and decarbonisation . grow the sustainable finance sector to support the transition to net zero be a major priority for this Government , and in March we publish our green finance strategy . the strategy set out the policy , regulatory change and framework that we will be focus on and take forward in the next two to three year , help business to have more certainty . it include , for example , our commitment to deliver a useful and usable UK green taxonomy — an important evidence - base classification tool that will clearly define what be mean by " green " so that the market know where to channel investment . as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) rightly highlight , that supply of relevant and reliable information will help guide we all in financing activity that actually support our net zero and environmental objective , while make clear where damaging greenwashing be take place . business that claim to be deliver green outcome while do no such thing not only continue to damage our environment , but damage our collective effort to reduce the impact on the natural world by undermine the effort of their competitor and the confidence of the public . this be clearly something that we need to tackle . the Competition and Markets Authority have lead a crackdown on greenwashe advertising ; the green taxonomy will go much far , make it easy to test and verify claim across the board . I can tell my hon . friend the Member for Rother Valley that our next step towards deliver that taxonomy — something that he have directly ask for — be direct consultation , as he would expect . that consultation will take place this autumn , ensure that we gain market view . it be right that we do so , as that will help build trust in the process and build on lesson learn in other part of the world . I be pleased that my hon . friend be speak so passionately from the Dispatch Box about the importance of build up trust . do he agree that if we get this wrong , ESG greenwashing could be the next payment protection insurance scandal — something that everyone sign up for decade ago , for which we be still pay the price even now ? if we get this wrong , we will face huge financial disadvantage and penalty down the line , so we must get the taxonomy right . one of the reason why we be look at a UK taxonomy and be clear that we want to introduce one be to ensure that there be great transparency and clarity for investor ; that , when they buy an investment product , they know what they be get . one of the thing that have historically be lack in the market be an understanding of what fund manager mean by " green " , so investor be put at a disadvantage and at risk of not purchase what they believe to be a green product . we will see how that consultation go , but I assure my hon . friend that it will take place this autumn . on a global scale , the market for ESG rating and datum be rapidly develop , and they be increasingly rely on by investor to guide their decision making . the growth of the integration of ESG into the investment process be expect to continue across all jurisdiction . however , ESG rating provider currently fall outside the regulatory perimeter . this raise the risk of harm with unrated rating , which often lack transparency , direct capital flow towards some company and project , and away from other . we be therefore explore action to address these grow ESG investment trend , to ensure that this activity be robust , and that it protect UK market and , ultimately , consumer . alongside the update green finance strategy , the Treasury have publish a consultation seek view for a potential future regulatory scheme for ESG rating provider . the consultation close on 30 June , with 94 response receive from industry , and we be review those response to inform the next stage of our work . any potential regulation would be align with recommendation make by the International Organisation of Security Commissions on how ESG datum and rating provider could improve their activity , such as improve transparency and mitigate conflict of interest . it would also seek to be align with other jurisdiction , include those of Japan , Singapore and the EU , which be put forward initiative in this space . more transparent ESG rating would build confidence in these product and the wider sustainable investment market , as investor would be well able to understand how their money be put to use . since the UK be at the forefront of international effort on this issue , we have the opportunity to shape the approach of other jurisdiction . if they be to follow we , it be incumbent on we to set a good example , so we must recognise and address where ESG principle be misapply . as my hon . friend have point out , we have see concern around banking raise recently . we have be clear that , as a matter of public policy , it be wrong to remove someone ' s bank account simply because of their political view . free speech and the legitimate expression of differ view be essential british principle , just as much as be ESG . let I conclude by say that I hope that , in the time I have be give , and in the time we have listen to my hon . friend , he and other hon . member can now appreciate that this country have build a sustainable finance market , product set and industry of which we should all be proud . we be one of the world ' s great democracy , a country that advocate for the fair and considerate treatment of the environment and the people of this world , and one that practise what it preach . we be determined to carry that on , make conscientious decision that work for our country , support our finance industry to play an important role in our economy and , of course , in society . question put and agree to . House adjourn .